                               1 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             March 24, 2013 Sunday

Pick a college major with the right information Why Should You go to College?

SECTION: REFLEJOS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 481 words


Choosing a major in college is an important decision because the choices you
make now can affect the career choices you will have after graduation, so take
advantage of the vast resources available to you. There are a variety of
resources designed to help you when choosing a major in college, including the
website CollegeView.com.

CollegeView.com provides the information college students, or soon-to-be college
students need to make knowledgeable choices about their careers. When the time
comes for you to pick a college major, take some time to explore all the
available resources and gain some important insight about choosing a major in
college.

Register to receive additional information through your email, or visit Student
Lounge at CollegeView.com to read about the experiences of other students and
how they went about choosing a major in college.

At CollegeView.com you will find information about a variety of schools and the
majors they offer -- thus helping you when choosing a major in college.

Remember that it is important for you to make a wise and educated decision.

Covering a variety of career fields, universities, community colleges and other
important information, you are sure to find helpful information that will be
useful in your decision-making process.

As we move forward, it is becoming more and more important to have a college
degree under your belt -- another reason to start thinking about choosing a
major in college.

As the job market becomes more competitive, companies are requiring more
qualifications from their applicants -- this is an important reason why you
should go to college and pick a college major that suits your strengths,
personality, and interests.

So why should you go to college? Because if you want to open up a wealth of
opportunities for yourself as you begin your career, it is important that you
make yourself as marketable as possible -- by choosing a major in college that
best suits you, as well as involving yourself in extracurricular activities,
leadership roles, and more. Choosing a major in college will allow you to begin
building your resume.

As you begin looking into choosing a major in college, please ask yourself a few
questions before you pick a college major:

These are all important questions that you need to ask yourself as you begin
choosing a major in college.

Choosing a major in college and ultimately deciding on the type of field that
you go into could determine what college you end up attending.

It is important to take into consideration the cost of attending different
colleges, the area in which each college is located, the social environment of
the college, and what additional extracurricular services are offered at each
school. Most importantly, though, is making sure that you choose a major in
college that suits you and is something you can see yourself doing for years to
come.

Source: collegeview.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                               2 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                             October 2, 2009 Friday

Thomas Sowell: Choosing the right college for your student

BYLINE: By Thomas Sowell Syndicated columnist

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 712 words


THERE IS SO much for high school seniors and their parents to know about
colleges that they not only need to get a lot of information but also need to
make sure it is the right kind of information.

A number of college guides have useful information but, unfortunately, the
best-known and most pretentious of these guides   "America's Best Colleges " is
grossly misleading.

There is no such thing as a "best" college, any more than there is any such
thing as a "best" wife or a "best" husband. Who would be best for a particular
person depends on that person.

Would we not consider it absurd if someone collected statistics on people and
then used those statistics to rank individuals according to who would make the
"best" wife or husband? Yet that is the approach "America's Best Colleges" is
based on.

A college that would be best for a particular student could be a terrible place
for that student's brother or sister. One of them might find West Point a great
experience, while the other would fit in perfectly at Reed College   and each
might be miserable at the other institution.

Choosing the college that is right for a particular person is not about the
rankings of institutions. It is about matching a student with an institution
that can enable that person to flourish while there, and to graduate with an
education that is a foundation for a fulfilling life in the years ahead.

Among the things you need to know about a particular college is whether it has a
real curriculum or just a smorgasbord of courses, so that it is possible to
graduate knowing nothing about history, economics or science, for example. Some
of the most prestigious colleges in the country are places where you can
graduate completely ignorant of such fundamental subjects.

What also matters is whether the intellectual atmosphere is one in which
competing ideas are explored and debated, or one in which there is a prevailing
orthodoxy of political correctness that a student can challenge only at the risk
of being ridiculed by the professor, given a low grade or   in some places
suspended or expelled for violating a campus speech code by giving an honest
opinion about things where an orthodoxy is imposed, such as issues involving
"race, class and gender."

In short, what is important is not choosing the "best" college according to some
statistics that conceal the arbitrary choices behind the objective-looking
numbers.

What is important is choosing the right college for you.

The best of the college guides reflects that difference in its title   "Choosing
the Right College." Its latest edition has just been published. Like people, it
has put on some weight over the years and its seventh edition is now 1,140 pages
long. Unlike some of us, however, its additional weight is muscle rather than
fat.

"Choosing the Right College" tells you whether there is or is not a curriculum
at each of the colleges it covers and whether classes are taught by professors
or by graduate students.

It also tells you whether the intellectual atmosphere is free or is hidebound
with political correctness, and plagued by professors who think their job is to
use the classroom as a place to sound off about their political ideology to a
captive audience, even when the course is about chemistry or accounting.

"Choosing the Right College" also presents information on such things as black
separatist organizations at Lafayette College, for example. Whether you are for
or against such things, you need to know about them to choose what you think is
right for you.

Coed living arrangements are also discussed, including just how coed they are
that is, whether males and females simply live in the same dormitory and/or
share the same room and/or use the same bathrooms and showers. It also mentions
some colleges where you don't have to live coed at all, if you don't want to.

If you want to get more than one college guide, there is also "Barron's Profiles
of American Colleges" which has much more statistical detail and can be a useful
supplement. But "Choosing the Right College" is a must   even if it is not
carried in your local bookstore, and you have to order it online or from its
publisher, ISI Books in Wilmington, Delaware.

Sowell is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   Morning Star (Wilmington, North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             June 13, 2015 Saturday

More high school grads choosing two-year college

BYLINE: Hannah DelaCourt, Star-News, Wilmington, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 754 words


June 13--SOUTHEASTERN N.C. -- Since 2003, the number of high school graduates in
North Carolina choosing a two-year institution has been slowly increasing.

According to N.C.'s Department of Public Instruction, 33.6 percent of high
school graduates from 2002-03 were enrolling in two-year colleges. From 2007-08,
36.3 percent were choosing two-year programs, and from 2011-12, that number rose
to 38 percent.

Dean Heath, Cape Fear Community College's high school recruiter, said the
numbers are pretty powerful, and he has seen a lot of interest from students in
the area.

"A lot of students are interested in a two-year vocational program, and a lot
are interested in completing two years and then transferring," he said. "I think
a lot of it has to do with economics."

Going into the 2014-15 year, according to CFCC's in-state tuition numbers, for a
student completing 12 credit hours over two years, a full course load, a student
would pay about $3,864 including tuition, student activity fees, parking and
technology fees. According to the College Board, the average cost of tuition at
a private college for the 2014-15 school year was $31,231 and for in-state
residents at public colleges, the average cost was $9,139.

But Heath added that for high school students choosing CFCC, he believes half
are choosing to transfer after two years to a four-year institution, while the
other half hope to complete a degree at CFCC.

"We have one of the top rated nursing programs in N.C.," he said. "We have a lot
of students that come here for nursing."

Laurel Hunt, a recent graduate of Topsail High School, is one of those students.

She said she applied to schools like East Carolina University and UNCW but felt
that the money she could save at CFCC would be worthwhile.

"I'm paying for college by myself, so I thought living at home the first year
and going to a smaller school would help," she said. "The programs are really
good, and they have a lot of equipment. It seems a lot of people are successful
so it's seems it's a good way to start."

Hunt hopes to become a nurse anesthetist.

Emilee Boyer, another recent Topsail High graduate, said money and staying
closer to home were both factors that led her to choosing CFCC.

"I'm not quite sure what I want to do, and I'm pretty involved in the community
around here, so going off to school has always been in my plan, but leaving, I'm
not really fond of that idea," Boyer said. "I was looking at all my options and
not knowing exactly what I want to do, Cape Fear looked like a really good
place."

Boyer said she will also be paying for college on her own and hopes this
decision will be one she looks back on as the right one for her wallet.

"I have loans and stuff," she said. "Having the opportunity to take classes for
a fourth of the price, I don't see what's wrong with that."

But some students do choose CFCC with the intent to transfer to a four-year
university.

Patrick Sugg, a Wilmington Christian Academy graduate, will complete his first
two years at CFCC and then look to transfer to a four-year institution.

He is interested in studying law and said saving money anywhere he can will help
down the line.

"I know with law school there comes a very big loan to pay off afterward," he
said. "I wasn't going to settle just because it was cheap, but it is also a
really nice school. I hear Cape Fear is very respected for transfers to
four-year colleges."

Sugg completed the duel enrollment program at CFCC while in high school, and he
added that a majority of his graduating class has chosen to attend CFCC in the
fall as well.

Heath said one thing that is working in CFCC's favor is getting more and more
students on campus earlier to break the stigma of what a community college is.

"There is an unfortunate negative connotation with the words community college
that we are fighting," he said. "In the past, the community college wasn't what
it is now, but people come and see us every week, and they say, 'Dean I had no
idea Cape Fear was like that.'"

And that is something Sugg said local students at least are taking note of.

"There has to be a reason that more people are choosing the community college,"
he said. "Not only is it better economically, but it's also a prestigious
school. I really haven't heard anything bad about Cape Fear, especially the
transfer program."

Hannah DelaCourt: 910-343-2075

On Twitter: @HDelaCourtSN

___ (c)2015 the Star-News (Wilmington, N.C.) Visit the Star-News (Wilmington,
N.C.) at www.starnewsonline.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150613-WG-More-high-school-grads-choosing-two-year-college
-0613-20150613

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WG


                          Copyright 2015 Morning Star


                               4 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sunday Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             March 12, 2000 Sunday
                                  Late Edition

Exhibitors and events;
AN ADVERTISING FEATURE - Independent Schools EXPO

SECTION: AGENDA; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 898 words


Association of Independent Schools of Victoria

Beaconhills College

Brighton Grammar school

Camberwell Anglican Girls School

Caulfield Grammar School

Christ Church Grammar School

Fintona Girls' School

Firbank Anglican School

Frank Dando Sports Academy

Geelong Grammar School

Haileybury College

Huntingtower

Ivanhoe Girls' Grammar School

Ivanhoe Grammar School

Kingswood College

Korowa Anglican Girls' School

Loreto Mandeville Hall

Lutheran Schools

Melbourne Girls Grammar

Mentone Girls Grammar

Mentone Grammar School

Methodist Ladies' College

Montessori Schools

Overnewton Anglican Community College

Oxley College

Preshil

The Margaret Lyttle Memorial School

Sacré Coeur

Seventh-day Adventist Schools

Sophia Mundi Rudolf Steiner Schools

St Catherine's School

St Kevin's College

St Margaret's School, Berwick

St Michael's Grammar School

Tintern SchoolsToorak College

Trinity Grammar School, Kew

Wesley College, Melbourne

Xavier College

Yarra Valley Grammar School

Educational Support Groups

ABC TV Program Sales

Andrew Best Music Services

Australian Scholarship Group

Australian Training Products

Bush Fire Press

Camp Australia

Child's Play Australia Pty Ltd

Color Presentations

DK Family Learning

IMPAQ Network Services

Kea Australia Pty Ltd

The Portsea Camp

Melbourne's Child

Southern Cross Cultural Exchange

Special Needs Education

The Spirit of Childhood by Vitale

Performing Arts Program

Saturday 18 March

10.30 am Caulfield Grammar School

12 noon Korowa Anglican Girls' School

12.30pm Camberwell Girls' Grammar

1.00pm Kingswood College

1.30pm Wesley College, Melbourne

2.00pm Overnewton Anglican College

2.30pm Yarra Valley Grammar School

3.00pm Preshil

3.30pm St Margaret's School

Sunday 19 March

10.30am Trinity Grammar School, Kew

11.00am Beaconhills College

11.30am Xavier College

12 noon St Michael's Grammar School

12. 30pm St Catherine's School

1.00pm Ivanhoe Grammar School

1.30pm Huntingtower

2.00pm Firbank Grammar School

2.30pm Brighton Grammar School

3.00pm Toorak College

3.30pm Sacre Coeur Parent Advice Sessions

Saturday 18 March

11.30am Choosing a School/Scholarships to Independent Schools

1.30pm School Fee funding Plans

2.00pm Special Education

2.30pm Choosing a School/Scholarships to Independent Schools

3.00pm Pre-schools/Kindergartens in Independent Schools

3.30pm School Fee Funding plans

Sunday 19 March

11.30am Choosing a School/Scholarships to Independent Schools

12.30pm School Fee funding Plans

1.00pm Special Education

1.30pm Choosing a School/Scholarships to Independent Schools

l2.00pm Pre-schools/Kindergartens in Independent Schools

2.30pm School Fee Funding plans

Association of Independent Schools of Victoria

 Beaconhills College

 Brighton Grammar school

 Camberwell Anglican Girls School

 Caulfield Grammar School

 Christ Church Grammar School

 Fintona Girls' School

 Firbank Anglican School

 Frank Dando Sports Academy

 Geelong Grammar School

 Haileybury College

 Huntingtower

 Ivanhoe Girls' Grammar School

 Ivanhoe Grammar School

 Kingswood College

 Korowa Anglican Girls' School

 Loreto Mandeville Hall

 Lutheran Schools

 Melbourne Girls Grammar

 Mentone Girls Grammar

 Mentone Grammar School

 Methodist Ladies' College

 Montessori Schools

 Overnewton Anglican Community College

 Oxley College

 Preshil

 The Margaret Lyttle Memorial School

 Sacré Coeur

 Seventh-day Adventist Schools

 Sophia Mundi Rudolf Steiner Schools

 St Catherine's School

 St Kevin's College

 St Margaret's School, Berwick

 St Michael's Grammar School

 Tintern SchoolsToorak College

 Trinity Grammar School, Kew

 Wesley College, Melbourne

 Xavier College

 Yarra Valley Grammar School



 Educational Support Groups

 ABC TV Program Sales

 Andrew Best Music Services

 Australian Scholarship Group

 Australian Training Products

 Bush Fire Press

 Camp Australia

 Child's Play Australia Pty Ltd

 Color Presentations

 DK Family Learning

 IMPAQ Network Services

 Kea Australia Pty Ltd

 The Portsea Camp

 Melbourne's Child

 Southern Cross Cultural Exchange

 Special Needs Education

 The Spirit of Childhood by Vitale

 Performing Arts Program

 Saturday 18 March

 10.30 am     Caulfield Grammar School

 12 noon       Korowa Anglican Girls' School

 12.30pm      Camberwell Girls' Grammar

 1.00pm         Kingswood College

 1.30pm         Wesley College, Melbourne

 2.00pm         Overnewton Anglican College

 2.30pm         Yarra Valley Grammar School

 3.00pm          Preshil

 3.30pm          St Margaret's School

 Sunday 19 March

 10.30am        Trinity Grammar School, Kew

 11.00am         Beaconhills College

 11.30am         Xavier College

 12 noon          St Michael's Grammar School

 12.30pm         St Catherine's School

 1.00pm           Ivanhoe Grammar School

 1.30pm           Huntingtower

 2.00pm           Firbank Grammar School

 2.30pm           Brighton Grammar School

 3.00pm           Toorak College

 3.30pm           Sacre Coeur

 Parent Advice Sessions

 Saturday 18 March

 11.30am         Choosing a School/Scholarships to Independent Schools

 1.30pm           School Fee funding Plans

 2.00pm           Special Education

 2.30pm           Choosing a School/Scholarships to Independent Schools 3.00pm
           Pre-schools/Kindergartens in Independent Schools

 3.30pm           School Fee Funding plans

 Sunday 19 March

 11.30am         Choosing a School/Scholarships to Independent Schools

 12.30pm         School Fee funding Plans

 1.00pm           Special Education

 1.30pm           Choosing a School/Scholarships to Independent Schools

 l2.00pm          Pre-schools/Kindergartens in Independent Schools

 2.30pm           School Fee Funding plans


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2000 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   Morning Star (Wilmington, North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             June 13, 2015 Saturday

More high school grads choosing two-year college

BYLINE: Hannah DelaCourt, Star-News, Wilmington, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 762 words


June 13--SOUTHEASTERN N.C. -- Since 2003, the number of high school graduates in
North Carolina choosing a two-year institution has been slowly increasing.

According to N.C.'s Department of Public Instruction, 33.6 percent of high
school graduates from 2002-03 were enrolling in two-year colleges. From 2007-08,
36.3 percent were choosing two-year programs, and from 2011-12, that number rose
to 38 percent.

Dean Heath, Cape Fear Community College's high school recruiter, said the
numbers are pretty powerful, and he has seen a lot of interest from students in
the area.

"A lot of students are interested in a two-year vocational program, and a lot
are interested in completing two years and then transferring," he said. "I think
a lot of it has to do with economics."

Going into the 2014-15 year, according to CFCC's in-state tuition numbers, for a
student completing 12 credit hours over two years, a full course load, a student
would pay about $3,864 including tuition, student activity fees, parking and
technology fees. According to the College Board, the average cost of tuition at
a private college for the 2014-15 school year was $31,231 and for in-state
residents at public colleges, the average cost was $9,139.

But Heath added that for high school students picking CFCC, he believes half are
choosing to transfer after two years to a four-year institution, while the other
half hope to complete a degree at CFCC.

"We have one of the top-rated nursing programs in North Carolina," he said. "We
have a lot of students that come here for nursing."

Laurel Hunt, a recent graduate of Topsail High School, is one of those students.

She said she applied to schools like East Carolina University and the University
of North Carolina Wilmington but felt that the money she could save at CFCC
would be worthwhile.

"I'm paying for college by myself, so I thought living at home the first year
and going to a smaller school would help," she said. "The programs are really
good, and they have a lot of equipment. It seems a lot of people are successful,
so it seems it's a good way to start."

Hunt hopes to become a nurse anesthetist.

Emilee Boyer, another recent Topsail High graduate, said money and staying
closer to home were both factors that led her to choosing CFCC.

"I'm not quite sure what I want to do, and I'm pretty involved in the community
around here, so going off to school has always been in my plan, but leaving, I'm
not really fond of that idea," Boyer said. "I was looking at all my options and
not knowing exactly what I want to do, Cape Fear looked like a really good
place."

Boyer said she will also be paying for college on her own and hopes this
decision will be one she looks back on as the right one for her wallet.

"I have loans and stuff," she said. "Having the opportunity to take classes for
a fourth of the price, I don't see what's wrong with that."

But some students do choose CFCC with the intent to transfer to a four-year
university.

Patrick Sugg, a Wilmington Christian Academy graduate, will complete his first
two years at CFCC and then look to transfer to a four-year institution.

He is interested in studying law and said saving money anywhere he can will help
down the line.

"I know with law school there comes a very big loan to pay off afterward," he
said. "I wasn't going to settle just because it was cheap, but it is also a
really nice school. I hear Cape Fear is very respected for transfers to
four-year colleges."

Sugg completed the duel enrollment program at CFCC while in high school, and he
added that a majority of his graduating class has chosen to attend CFCC in the
fall as well.

Heath said one thing that is working in CFCC's favor is getting more and more
students on campus earlier to break the stigma of what a community college is.

"There is an unfortunate negative connotation with the words community college
that we are fighting," he said. "In the past, the community college wasn't what
it is now, but people come and see us every week, and they say, 'Dean, I had no
idea Cape Fear was like that.' "

And that is something Sugg said local students at least are taking note of.

"There has to be a reason that more people are choosing the community college,"
he said. "Not only is it better economically, but it's also a prestigious
school. I really haven't heard anything bad about Cape Fear, especially the
transfer program."

Hannah DelaCourt: 910-343-2075

On Twitter: @HDelaCourtSN

___ (c)2015 the Star-News (Wilmington, N.C.) Visit the Star-News (Wilmington,
N.C.) at www.starnewsonline.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150613-WG-More-high-school-grads-choosing-two-year-college
-0613-20150613

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WG


                          Copyright 2015 Morning Star


                               6 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                             April 15, 2014 Tuesday

Options are many, but choose the right one

BYLINE: Mahalakshmi Subramanian

LENGTH: 546  words


Vashi: Students who have given their class XII board exams are pondering over
what should they do next.

From Bachelor of Mass Media, Bachelor of Management Studies, banking, financial
markets to architecture, interior designing and hotel management, it is an ocean
of courses. So, make sure you take the right step, with the right advice and
guidelines.

As the choice you make impacts how your career is shaped. It is, therefore,
important not to get swayed by opinion of peers or choose the courses parents
tick. Deciding the stream on the basis of marks is another no-no.

"Choosing engineering just because a student has scored high is a prevalent
practice as many do not understand that repercussions. The student's interest in
a particular field should alone be the driving factor in him or her choosing a
course," says Salma Prabhu, an educational counsellor, adding that aptitude,
ability are other factors.

Dr Rita Basu, principal, SIES (Nerul) College of Arts Science and Commerce, says
choosing the college is important. "Choosing a college that is in proximity to
the student's residence is beneficial. Being able to come home and devote time
for research for projects and self-study is possible if the college is nearby.
Also, today 75% attendance is compulsory and it order to ensure this the student
must make the right choice," says Dr Basu, adding that going by the name and
popularity of a college would be a wrong move.

Students and parents have several common misconceptions and stereotypical
notions before choosing a course. For commerce students, chartered accountancy
is the best option, opting for BA will not provide good scope in terms of job
opportunities or deciding that engineering is the course for students who are
top rankers since the start.

And, because these thoughts are bound to influence you, it is advisable to seek
professional help to understand what you are cut out for. For a student with
out-of-the-box thinking, good command over language and an interest in research
work, BMM would be the right pick.

"With so many options being available, children are waylaid into streams they
are not suited for. Taking an aptitude test narrows down the options," explains
Dr Basu.

Parental pressure is always an issue, one that counsellors and teachers try
their best to tackle. Counselling sessions that happen in a counsellor's office
or in the principal's cabin or in the staff room, making adamant parents
understand what their ward will be good at. However, there are options even for
those students who end up taking the path paved by their parents and find it
difficult to cope.

"There have been plenty of students who have stopped engineering midway, unable
to cope with the complex syllabus. We advise them to take an aptitude test and
pick options as per its results," says Shreya Manrekar, in-house counsellor for
SIES (Nerul) Arts Science and Commerce.

Also, with the credit system in place there are students who make the switch
after a few months, like switching to advertising from journalism (BMM).

"It is better to act on your preferences late instead of completing the course
and realising that you do not like it," adds Prabhu, emphasising that a student
should not opt for a course just because friends have done it and are earning
well.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                          February 25, 2015 Wednesday
                                 Early Edition

How to help high school students choose the right post-secondary education

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. E3

LENGTH: 667 words


Choosing a college or university is the first big decision of many teenagers'
lives. A youngster's choice of college can impact the rest of his or her life,
and it's important that kids recognize the gravity of this decision.

Many kids, in particular those who realize the impact that their choice of
college can have on the rest of their lives, are overwhelmed when they begin
studying information about prospective programs and campus life. But, as
daunting a task as choosing a college may seem, teenagers should enjoy the
process, as the choice of where to go to college is unlike any other decision
many students will make for the rest of their lives.

Parents also can ensure the process goes more smoothly by helping their kids
find the right post-secondary school. That's especially true for parents who
have already been through the process with an older child. But even parents
going through the process for the first time can take the following steps to
help youngsters find the right post-secondary school.

Discuss finances with kids at the outset of the selection process

While the choice of where a student goes to college should ultimately rest with
that student, it's important that parents explain their financial situations to
their kids at the outset of the selection process. Explain how much you can
contribute toward tuition and fees, and explain the differences between loans
and grants. Some kids may expect their parents to foot the entire bill for their
education, but such situations are increasingly rare thanks to the rising cost
of a college education. Make sure kids know the financial obligations they will
be taking on should they take out loans to pay for their education.

Ask kids to list fields of study they may want to pursue

While first-year students do not necessarily need to choose a major upon
enrolling, kids who know their interests and what they may want to one day do
for a living may be more likely to find the right college or university for
them. Parents can ask kids to write down a list of their interests, including
potential career interests. This can help kids narrow down the list of colleges
and universities they are considering. For example, if a student is interested
in engineering but a university on their list does not offer an engineering
program, then that school can be eliminated. Kids who list multiple potential
fields of study may benefit by choosing a larger school with more available
programs. This can allow them to pursue more than one major, or even switch
majors, without transferring to another school.

Visit campuses

Student athletes who hope to continue their athletic careers at the collegiate
level may be limited to a certain number of official campus visits, but
non-athletes face no such restrictions. While college is first and foremost
about getting an education, it's also an opportunity to grow as a person. Campus
visits can give kids a feel for campus life, which varies considerably between
institutions, and that feel can help them determine if a given college or
university is somewhere they're liable to feel comfortable over the next several
years. Parents can accompany kids on campus visits and ask questions their kids
may not know to ask but will certainly be glad to know the answers to.
Travelling to various campuses can be expensive, so parents might want to delay
campus visits until kids have narrowed down their lists of potential colleges.

Stay involved

Some kids may succumb to the pressure of choosing a college and detach
themselves from the process as a result. While taking periodic breaks from
talking about college can benefit both kids and their folks, parents should not
allow such breaks to go on for too long. Stay involved in the process so kids
continue to approach it with the right attitude. If kids appear to be struggling
with their decision, act as a sounding board for them so they can let offsome
steam and clear their heads. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network Inc. All
rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / High school students choosing a college or university benefit when
parents contribute to making the decision process go more smoothly.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Leader-Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                           February 6, 2014, Thursday

Many factors involved in choosing a college

BYLINE: Elizabeth Six, Braxton County High School

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P7E

LENGTH: 372 words


For high school seniors all over the nation, choosing a college can be scary,
exciting or just plain confusing. Every college is different, and so is every
student attending or planning on attending. Choosing the right college that fits
a student's academic and personal needs takes a great deal of critical thinking
and planning.

Seniors at Braxton County High School look at many different qualities when
looking into the ideal college and what it has to offer them. Some consider the
cost, how far away from home it is and even the size of the student body, but
others look at the school's academic qualities and opportunities.

Senior Serena Helmick, who plans on attending Glenville State College in the
fall, was looking for a college that fit both of her majors' needs. She plans to
major in teaching and criminal justice.

"I want to go to Glenville because it is close to home, and it has a good
teaching and criminal justice program," she said. "I am really excited to start
college at Glenville."

Another senior who plans on going to Glenville for its criminal justice program
is Danny Mosley.

"I want to go to Glenville because they have a really good criminal justice
program," Mosley said. "I want to make new friends and meet new people."

Senior Dustin Bragg agrees with Mosley and Helmick, but he also looks at the
location of the college when it comes to finding the ideal school.

"I look at the programs available for my choice of major, the location of the
college and [where] friends [are going]," said Bragg, who plans to attend West
Virginia University and major in chemical engineering. He has received an
engineering scholarship from the high school.

Some students, like senior Tony Conrad, look at a college's principles.

"I want to go to a college with good morals," he said.

Like Helmick and Mosley, Conrad wants to study at Glenville, with a planned
major in sports management. He also wants to attend Glenville because he wants
to play baseball there.

Different colleges have all types of reasons for a student to study there, so
choosing the right school can be a challenge. Students need to consider every
aspect of the college they are looking into and make sure that it fits their
every educational and personal need.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 Charleston Newspapers


                               9 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                    December 14, 2011 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

ABIM Foundation: Leading Physician Organizations Join Forces to Identify and Act
on Ways to Reduce Inappropriate Use in Health Care System

LENGTH: 1796  words


New Delhi, Dec. 14 -- Recognizing that patients often ask for tests and
treatments that are not necessarily in their best interest, and physicians often
struggle with decisions about prescribing tests and procedures as a way of
covering all possible bases, the ABIM Foundation has joined with nine leading
medical specialty societies to develop evidence-based lists of tests and
procedures for patients and physicians to question as part of Choosing Wisely.
The goal of this campaign is to help physicians, patients and other health care
stakeholders think and talk about overuse or misuse of health care resources in
the United States.

Consumer Reports, the nation's leading expert, independent, nonprofit consumer
organization, has also joined the campaign to provide resources for consumers
and physicians to engage in these important conversations.

The campaign is part of the ABIM Foundation's goal of promoting wise choices by
clinicians in order to improve health care outcomes, provide patient-centered
care that avoids unnecessary and even harmful interventions and reduce the
rapidly-expanding costs of the health care system. The lists of Five Things
Physicians and Patients Should Question is modeled after the successful National
Physicians Alliance (NPA) project titled "Five Things You Can Do in Your
Practice," which was funded by the ABIM Foundation in 2009.

As part of Choosing Wisely, each participating specialty society will identify
its own list of five common tests or procedures whose use in their profession
should be discussed or questioned. The lists will be unveiled in April 2012. The
societies were given the following parameters to develop the lists:

* Each item should be within the specialty's purview and control;

* Procedures should be used frequently and/or carry a significant cost; and

* There needs to be evidence to support each recommendation.

"Physicians play a leading role in addressing problems with our nation's health
care system. That is why the ABIM Foundation is proud to be working with
specialty societies that have proactively decided to address some of the most
important issues in health care head on," said Christine K. Cassel, M.D.,
president and CEO of the ABIM Foundation. "By identifying specific procedures or
tests that may commonly be ordered, but not always necessary to improving
patient care, we're kicking off an important and overdue conversation about
making wise choices in health care. Everyone - providers, patients and others -
plays a part in being better stewards of the system's finite resources."

Organizations participating in Choosing Wisely include:

* American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology

* American Academy of Family Physicians

* American College of Cardiology

* American College of Physicians

* American College of Radiology

* American Gastroenterological Association

* American Society of Clinical Oncology

* American Society of Nephrology

* American Society of Nuclear Cardiology

* Consumer Reports

The Congressional Budget Office estimates that up to 30 percent of care
delivered in America goes toward unnecessary tests, procedures, medical
appointments, hospital stays and other services that may not improve people's
health - and in fact may actually cause harm. If current trends remain
unchanged, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services project U.S. health care
spending will reach $4.3 trillion and account for 19.3 percent of the nation's
gross domestic product by 2019.

First announced in March 2011, Choosing Wisely is part of a multi-year effort
led by the ABIM Foundation to support and engage physicians in being better
stewards of finite health care resources. It is part of the ABIM Foundation's
long history of advancing medical professionalism and supporting similar
initiatives. In 2002 the Foundation, along with the American College of
Physicians Foundation and European Federation of Internal Medicine, authored
Medical Professionalism in the New Millennium: A Physician Charter. The
Physician Charter has as its fundamental principles the primacy of patient
welfare, patient autonomy and social justice and articulates professional
responsibilities of physicians, including a commitment to improving quality and
access to care, advocating for a just and cost-effective distribution of finite
resources and maintaining trust by managing conflicts of interest.

To learn more about Choosing Wisely visit www.ChoosingWisely.org.

Leaders of organizations participating in Choosing Wisely comment on the
campaign:

American Academy of Allergy Asthma & Immunology

"The Choosing Wisely campaign will serve as an additional catalyst to assure
that allergy, immunology and asthma testing and treatment strategies advance
optimal patient care in a cost-effective manner," according to Dennis K.
Ledford, President of the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology
(AAAAI).

American Academy of Family Physicians

"For decades, family physicians have worked to ensure high-quality,
cost-effective care for our patients," said Glen R. Stream, M.D., MBI, FAAFP,
president of the American Academy of Family Physicians. "Our involvement in the
Choosing Wisely campaign underscores this commitment. Maintaining ongoing
relationships with our patients throughout their lifespan helps us provide the
best care possible and significantly decreases the need to order tests and
procedures. The comprehensive, integrated care provided through a
patient-centered medical home (PCMH) significantly reduces duplication and
eliminates unnecessary treatment. It also encourages an open dialogue between
physicians and patients, which helps them 'choose wisely' when it comes to a
treatment plan."

American College of Cardiology

"With the medications, devices and imaging technology available to cardiologists
today, we can save and improve the lives of patients who would not have had a
chance just 15 years ago," said American College of Cardiology President David
Holmes, Jr., M.D., FACC. "We have a responsibility to use these powerful tools
effectively. We are pleased to join with our partners in the Choosing Wisely
campaign to encourage open communication about the risks, costs and benefits of
tests and treatments so that our patients can be informed partners in important
decisions about their care."

American College of Physicians

"The Choosing Wisely campaign complements existing efforts of the American
College of Physicians to help internal medicine specialists and subspecialists
provide the best possible care to their patients while reducing unnecessary
health care costs," said Virginia L. Hood, MBBS, MPH, FACP, president, American
College of Physicians. "Many factors contribute to the overuse and misuse of
diagnostic tests that do not improve health and can cause harm: a lack of
guidelines for many clinical problems, long-standing doctor habits and patient
expectations. ACP will continue to produce evidence-based recommendations and
educate clinicians and patients about how to pursue care together that improves
health, avoids harms and eliminates wasteful practices."

American College of Radiology

"American College of Radiology (ACR) participation in Choosing Wisely is an
extension of our numerous efforts to ensure appropriate, high-quality medical
imaging care and radiation therapy for all who need it. We urge all physicians
to use ACR Appropriateness Criteria to determine which imaging tests are best
for a patient's condition or when no imaging exam may be warranted at all.
Patients should seek out ACR accredited facilities to be sure that physicians,
equipment and personnel have met stringent standards. And we urge lawmakers and
government agencies to work with providers to arrive at quality-and-safety based
health policies that protect access to care," said Harvey Neiman, M.D., FACR,
chief executive officer of the American College of Radiology.

American Gastroenterological Association

"The American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) is honored to be joining the
ABIM Foundation and many other respected medical societies in the Choosing
Wisely campaign," said C. Richard Boland, M.D., AGAF, president of the AGA
Institute. "The AGA believes that patients should have access to the screening
tests that will most benefit them in the treatment and diagnosis of their
condition. However, we realize that steps need to be taken to ensure that
patients and health care professionals understand how these tests should be used
in order to minimize inappropriate use. Therefore, we are participating in this
campaign to help educate patients and health care providers about the proper
guidelines and quality measures to consider when making important health care
decisions."

American Society of Clinical Oncology

"The Choosing Wisely campaign will help patients and health care providers
consider the value of care options, a crucial step in addressing escalating
costs and ensuring that all Americans have access to high-quality care," said
Allen S. Lichter, M.D., CEO, American Society of Clinical Oncology.

American Society of Nephrology

"ASN looks forward to working with the ABIM Foundation and other leading
societies to improve care for patients through the Choosing Wisely campaign,"
stated ASN president Ronald J. Falk, M.D., FASN. "ASN's unwavering dedication to
this important effort reflects the society's obligation to improve the lives of
the nearly 30 million Americans with kidney disease," he adds. "The campaign
also reflects my personal commitment that ASN and its nearly 14,000 members
provide high-quality, patient-centered care."

American Society of Nuclear Cardiology

"Delivering high-quality, patient-centered care is the obligation of every
medical professional," said John J. Mahmarian, M.D., president-elect of the
American Society of Nuclear Cardiology. "The Choosing Wisely campaign represents
a unified effort in the medical community to promote best practices and good
stewardship of health care resources by experts in the field. ASNC is proud to
be a part of this initiative and share our professionals' recommendations for
optimizing the delivery of imaging services to patients in need."

Consumer Reports

"Consumer Reports is excited to be able to reach millions of consumers with
important health care information in its role as the 'consumer communicator' in
the Choosing Wisely campaign," said Jim Guest, president of Consumer Reports.
"This is a valuable partnership that brings the ABIM Foundation, nine medical
societies, and Consumer Reports together to help influence the health
decision-making process and put new approaches immediately into practice. By
effectively translating critical health care information and working with other
consumer organizations to disseminate it, we strongly believe we can improve the
marketplace."

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2011 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            August 19, 2014 Tuesday

Skills, interests and making a living factor into a college major

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: LATEST NEWS; News

LENGTH: 660 words


As recent college graduates can no doubt attest, the job market for young people
can be difficult to navigate. Many recent graduates are still struggling to find
full-time employment, and some might be wondering if they chose the right major.

Though choosing a major is about more than just finding a job, the financial
burden of earning a college degree can't be ignored. According to the Project on
Student Debt, 71 percent of college seniors who graduated in 2012 had student
loan debt, with an average of $29,400 per borrower. In fact, between 2008 and
2012, the average student loan debt at graduation increased an average of 6
percent each year.

So while the right major should incorporate a student's interests, skills and
strengths, it's also important to find a major that can help students earn a
living after they walk across the stage and receive their diplomas.

The following are a handful of tips college students can employ to ensure they
choose the right major.

* Don't jump into it. Some students might want to pick a major before they ever
set foot on campus. While that strategy might work for some, it should only be
employed by those students who are wholly certain a major is for them. Some
students choose a major early on because they feel they may get a head start at
navigating their way through a job market that recently endured exceptionally
high levels of unemployment. But the pressure of finding a job should not be
what drives students when choosing a major. Unless you're entirely certain that
a particular course of study is for you, give yourself some leeway and wait to
choose a major. The first year or two of college is a great time to expand your
academic horizons so use that time to your advantage.

* Don't procrastinate. While rushing into a major is a mistake, it's also
foolish to procrastinate with regard to choosing a course of study. According to
The College Board's annual survey of colleges, the average tuition and fees at
private nonprofit four-year colleges for the 2013-14 school year was $30,094,
while public four-year in-state tuition and fees averaged slightly less than
$9,000 for the same year.

So no matter which type of college or university a student enrolls in, he or she
will be making a significant financial commitment. Waiting too long to choose a
course of study may find you paying for courses you ultimately won't need,
increasing your already expensive tuition along the way.

* Use the resources at your disposal. Students undecided about a college major
should make use of their schools' career development departments to help them
get on the right path. Many such departments provide assessment tools to help
students find a major that synthesizes their interests and skills with a field
of study. In addition, the personnel within career development departments have
dealt with hundreds, if not thousands, of previous students who found themselves
in similar situations, and that experience can prove invaluable to students who
might feel lost with regard to choosing majors.

* Know the requirements if you have a specific career in mind. While many majors
are not difficult to navigate, some fields of study have strict guidelines that
students should be aware of almost immediately. For example, students hoping to
attend medical school after graduation need to determine which courses they
absolutely must take in order to qualify for medical school. In addition,
students with such specific plans in mind often must choose their majors as
early as possible so they can plan their curriculum in accordance with the
standards they will need to meet to be considered for postgraduate work.

Choosing a major is a decision college students should not take lightly. But
students who are unsure of what they want to study should approach the process
of choosing a major with patience and an eye on finding a course of study that
matches their interests with their skills.

-- Metro Creative Services

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             August 3, 2014 Sunday

Tips to help students choose the right major

BYLINE: Metro Creative Services

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTIONS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 656 words


As recent college graduates can no doubt attest, the job market for young people
can be difficult to navigate. Many recent graduates are still struggling to find
full-time employment, and some might be wondering if they chose the right major.

Though choosing a major is about more than just finding a job, the financial
burden of earning a college degree can't be ignored. According to the Project on
Student Debt, 71 percent of college seniors who graduated in 2012 had student
loan debt, with an average of $29,400 per borrower.

In fact, between 2008 and 2012, the average student loan debt at graduation
increased an average of 6 percent each year.

So while the right major should incorporate a student's interests, skills and
strengths, it's also important to find a major that can help students earn a
living after they walk across the stage and receive their diplomas.

The following are a handful of tips college students can employ to ensure they
choose the right major.

* Don't jump into it. Some students might want to pick a major before they ever
step foot on campus. While that strategy might work for some, it should only be
employed by those students who are wholly certain a major is for them. Some
students choose a major early on because they feel they may get a head start at
navigating their way through a job market that recently endured exceptionally
high levels of unemployment. But the pressure of finding a job should not be
what drives students when choosing a major. Unless you're entirely certain that
a particular course of study is for you, give yourself some leeway and wait to
choose a major. The first year or two of college is a great time to expand your
academic horizons so use that time to your advantage.

* Don't procrastinate. While rushing into a major is a mistake, it's also
foolish to procrastinate with regard to choosing a course of study. According to
The College Board's annual survey of colleges, the average tuition and fees at
private nonprofit four-year colleges for the 2013-14 school year was $30,094,
while public four-year in-state tuition and fees averaged slightly less than
$9,000 for the same year. So no matter which type of college or university a
student enrolls in, he or she will be making a significant financial commitment.
Waiting too long to choose a course of study may find you paying for courses you
ultimately won't need, increasing your already expensive tuition along the way.

* Use the resources at your disposal. Students undecided about a college major
should make use of their schools' career development departments to help them
get on the right path. Many such departments provide assessment tools to help
students find a major that synthesizes their interests and skills with a field
of study. In addition, the personnel within career development departments have
dealt with hundreds, if not thousands, of previous students who found themselves
in similar situations, and that experience can prove invaluable to students who
might feel lost with regard to choosing majors.

* Know the requirements if you have a specific career in mind. While many majors
are not difficult to navigate, some fields of study have strict guidelines that
students should be aware of almost immediately. For example, students hoping to
attend medical school after graduation need to determine which courses they
absolutely must take in order to qualify for medical school. In addition,
students with such specific plans in mind often must choose their majors as
early as possible so they can plan their curriculum in accordance with the
standards they will need to meet to be considered for postgraduate work.

Choosing a major is a decision college students should not take lightly. But
students who are unsure of what they want to study should approach the process
of choosing a major with patience and an eye on finding a course of study that
matches their interests with their skills.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              12 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                            March 12, 2015 Thursday
                                 Early Edition

How to help high school students choose the right college

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. E7

LENGTH: 711 words


Choosing a college or university is the first big decision of many teenagers'
lives. A young person's choice of college can impact the rest of his or her
life, and it's important that students recognize the gravity of this decision.

Many young people, in particular those who realize the impact that their choice
of college can have on the rest of their lives, are overwhelmed when colleges
begin sending information about their programs and campus life. Such
information, especially when it is unsolicited, may begin to arrive at the dawn
of high school student's sophomore year, long before many teenagers have begun
to think about where to pursue their educations after high school. But as
daunting a task as choosing a college may seem, teenagers should enjoy the
process, as the choice of where to go to college is unlike any other decision
many students will make for the rest of their lives.

Parents also can ensure the process goes more smoothly by helping their kids
find the right school. That's especially true for parents who have already been
through the process with an older child. But even parents going through the
process for the first time can take the following steps to help youngsters find
the right college. Discuss finances at the outset of the selection process.
While the choice of where a student goes to college should ultimately rest with
that student, it's important that parents explain their financial situations to
their kids at the outset of the selection process. Explain how much you can
contribute toward tuition and fees, and explain the differences between loans
and grants. Some youth may expect their parents to foot the entire bill for
their education, but such situations are increasingly rare thanks to the rising
cost of a college education. Make sure students know the financial obligations
they will be taking on should they take out loans to pay for their education.

Ask students to list fields of study they may want to pursue. While incoming
college freshman do not necessarily need to choose a major upon enrolling,
students who know their interests and what they may want to one day do for a
living may be more likely to find the right college or university for them.
Parents can ask kids to write down a list of their interests, including
potential career interests. This can help narrow down the list of colleges and
universities they are considering. For example, if a student is interested in
engineering but a university on their list does not offer an engineering
program, then that school can be eliminated. Young people who list multiple
potential fields of study may benefit by choosing a larger school with more
available programs. This can allow them to pursue more than one major or even
switch majors without transferring to another school.

Visit campuses. Student-athletes who hope to continue their athletic careers at
the collegiate level may be limited to a certain number of official campus
visits, but non-athletes face no such restrictions. While college is first and
foremost about getting an education, it's also an opportunity to grow as a
person. Campus visits can give young people a feel for campus life, which varies
considerably between colleges, and that feel can help them determine if a given
college or university is somewhere they're liable to feel comfortable over the
next several years. Parents can accompany kids on campus visits and ask
questions young people may not know to ask but will certainly be glad to know
the answers to. Traveling to various campuses can be expensive, so parents might
want to delay campus visits until their children have narrowed down their lists
of potential colleges.

Stay involved. Some young people may succumb to the pressure of choosing a
college and detach themselves from the process as a result. While taking
periodic breaks from talking about college can benefit both kids and their
folks, parents should not allow such breaks to go on for too long. Stay involved
in the process so kids continue to approach it with the right attitude. If they
appear to be struggling with their decision, act as a sounding board for them so
they can let offsome steam and clear their heads. (MNS) !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015
Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Fotolia; Campus visits can give young people a feel for campus life.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Star Phoenix
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                           October 25, 2017 Wednesday
            WEB Edition; NC1 Edition; NC2 Edition; MF12 Edition; NC3
          Edition; NM1 Edition; NC Edition; NC14 Edition; MC1 Edition;
           MC3 Edition; MD1 Edition; ML2 Edition; NL1 Edition; NC14C
          Edition; NC4 Edition; CLFM Edition; eBlast Edition; Special
                               Section 1 Edition

How to choose a community college

SECTION: HBG; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 561 words


Did you know that there's a place where you could earn up to 60 college credits,
get an associate degree and learn valuable job skills for the fraction of the
cost of a year's education at a four-year university? The place is called a
community college. Community colleges are a great way to save money, earn
college credits or learn new marketable skills.

Many people start their academic careers at a community college before
transferring to a four-year institution. Your local community college may even
have a partnership with a university so you could earn a bachelor's degree right
on campus. These colleges are also a fantastic option for students with family
responsibilities, full-time jobs or other obligations. Tuition is often far less
expensive than at a large university. There are plenty of things to consider
when choosing a community college. Location, tuition costs, courses and ease of
scheduling are all factors to keep in mind. Research all the colleges in your
area. The ideal community college should be no more than 30 minutes away and
accessible by car or public transportation. You'll be more likely to attend
classes if it doesn't take hours to get there. Typically, there is no or very
limited on-campus living. Cost is always a major factor. Many community colleges
have two levels of tuition: one for in-area residents and one for out-of-area
residents. If you live in the same county as the community college, you can
expect to pay a third to half of what others pay. There might also be financial
assistance available. Local businesses concentrate their resources on their
local community colleges. They might provide scholarships for students. State
and federal grants and loans can also help defray the costs of higher education.
Courses are another consideration when choosing a community college. Make sure
your community college is accredited or has a cooperative partnership with local
or state universities. There is nothing worse than attending college for two
years only to find your credits aren't transferrable. If you find several
community colleges offer your choice of major, research their internship program
and reputation. Do they have employment statistics? Choosing a college with a
higher employment rate could benefit you after graduation. Most community
colleges post their class schedules online or include a flyer with the local
newspaper. You can also pick up a course catalog from the college itself. Review
their offerings. If you need to take classes in the late evening, are there
enough available to make it worth attending that college? What about distance
learning opportunities? Many colleges let students earn certificates or degrees
completely online. Nontraditional students may need a more flexible schedule.
Classes may be offered several days of the week, in the morning or evening. Many
colleges have weekend classes. Students who need to graduate quickly may take
accelerated programs. You might simply need to earn a certification for a
current or future job. Community colleges offer these programs as well. Be sure
to ask your employer about tuition reimbursement. Consider your lifestyle and
personal requirements when choosing a community college. It is likely that a
community college in your area will fit your needs and get you on your way to
that promotion, new job or just updated skills.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              14 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

Spoilt for choice, students are confused about what to pursue

SECTION: COIMBATORE

LENGTH: 376 words


COIMBATORE: N Tamilmani, who completed his class 12 exams from Erode was here in
the city with applications for both engineering and arts stream. "I plan to
apply for various computer streams under B Sc and other computer branches.
However I'm yet to decide which course will help me build a secure future," he
said. He plans to talk to a few friends before he makes his final decision.

Tamilmani is not alone in his confusion. There are several students who are
unable to decide which course to choose, more so because they are spoilt for
choice. Academicians and experts say several factors should be taken into
consideration while choosing your course.

S Sivasubramanian, vice-chancellor of Noorul Islam University says that students
should choose a course based on their interest and aptitude. "They should
analyze their strengths and weaknesses, based on which they should decide what
to pursue. Peer pressure and pressure from parents are inevitable but students
should choose what's best for them rather than trying to please their parents,"
he says.

Choosing an institute is a trickier proposition. Students should do an elaborate
background check on each institute they have shortlisted. Talking to alumni will
help. "A key factor in choosing an institute is the quality of the faculty,"
says E Balagurusamy, former Vice-Chancellor of Anna University. Colleges should
have adequate faculty who are suitably qualified.

A professor in a leading college who wishes to remain anonymous says that
students should opt for general courses over specialized ones. "Courses like
aeronautics and bio-technology should only be taken at a leading institute, as
the placements they offer are minimal," he said. It is even advisable for
students to opt for a conventional course like mechanical or civil engineering
and then specialize at the postgraduate level.

Pass percentage, placement opportunities and infrastructure are some of the
other factors which should be considered. Academics advise caution when choosing
a college. "While the top colleges easily fill seats, the rest struggle to get
students. By making tall claims, colleges hope to fill seats," said C Pichandy,
vice-president of the Association of University Teachers.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            February 12, 2016 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FOLLOW IMPORTANT STEPS IN CHOOSING THE RIGHT COLLEGE

BYLINE: Janice Crompton, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: EDUCATION; Pg. ED-2

LENGTH: 507 words


Choosing the right college is easy for some and confusing for others, but
experts agree it's one of the most important decisions ? and many times the
first important life decision ? that high school students will face.

"Choosing colleges that are a good fit academically, financially and socially
will hopefully mean that the student spends the next four years of their life in
the ?right' college environment, happy with their choice, happy with the
selection of majors offered, happy with the campus vibe, without having to
transfer after their first year," said Connie Pollack, a college admissions
consultant from Squirrel Hill.

"The idea is to determine up front what colleges will be a good fit so you don't
have to transfer to another school, transition to a new place and new students,
and risk losing the credits that you have earned that year," she said.

Ms. Pollack is a member of the Independent Educational Consultants Association,
a nonprofit trade association for counselors in private practice.

Some families hire consultants, such as Ms. Pollack, to help choose and prepare
for college, with fees that range as little as a few hundred dollars for a
couple of consultations, to several thousand dollars for an array of college
preparation services.

Her best advice for choosing the right school echoes that of the College Board
and other organizations devoted to collegiate services.

"Typically, I will give the student and parent a self-assessment survey so I can
have two different perspectives of where they are at the start," Ms. Pollack
said.

The top things to consider are:

? Location. Do you want to be close enough to do laundry and have meals at home
or would you prefer to visit home only on holidays?

? Size. Smaller colleges have fewer services and activities but larger
universities have bigger class sizes and less individual attention.

? Majors. What schools offer the major or activities you are most interested in?

? Cost. No matter what the published tuition rate is, experts say students
rarely pay full freight. Private colleges can be among the most expensive, but
they often have the most generous scholarship opportunities.

It's important to take the time to research choices, and it is often helpful to
come up with a three-part list of safety, target and dream schools, Ms. Pollack
said.

The safety schools are those which the student feels confident that he or she
will be admitted easily; the target schools are those where the student would be
happy but is unsure of acceptance; while the dream schools represent the
students' ideal, but unlikely to accept the student.

Ms. Pollack advises students to visit some of their top choices, ask questions
and meet informally with admissions personnel.

"If students have taken the time to evaluate their needs, have researched
different schools of interest, have visited several colleges and know what each
school offers and what it will cost to attend, before they enroll, it can save
them money and time and pave the road for a memorable college experience," she
said.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COUNTDOWN TO COLLEGE 2016 EDUCATION PLANNING GUIDE / Janice Crompton:
jcrompton@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1159. /

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              16 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                              April 1, 2007 Sunday

College search should be about fit, not ranking

BYLINE: MARTHA O'CONNELL

SECTION: Z_COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 562 words


If you had to choose a spouse or partner for life, would you like to use a
publication ranking them by income, IQ scores and reputation as reported by
others who have never met the person? I often ask this question as I speak to
college-bound students and their families, and after the laughter, we discuss
the factors that are important in searching for the right college for each
student.

As a culture, we love consulting consumer guidebooks and lists for a shortcut to
choosing electronics and cars. The college search, however, requires a more
thoughtful, personal and time-consuming approach. It can't be reduced to
numerical rankings when it requires starting with who the student is and why he
or she is going to college, the student's needs and desires, learning styles and
interests. This self-inventory is how to start finding colleges that fit the
individual, instead of starting with the assumption that only the top 20 on the
U.S. News & World Report list have any value.

Another flaw in the rankings is that they tout entering-class statistics rather
than focusing on what happens during the four years those students are enrolled.
Veteran college counselor Loren Pope has said that choosing colleges based on
the entering statistics of the freshman class is like choosing a hospital based
on the health of those in the emergency room. It's the treatment that really
matters -- in the case of colleges, what happens between the first year and
graduation.

How do you choose a college without using rankings? Visit the National Survey of
Student Engagement Web site and read the section on ''Choosing a College: Are
You Asking the Right Questions?'': ''How often do faculty meet students outside
of class?'' ''How much writing and how many presentations are required?'' ''How
much time do students devote to co-curricular activities?'' These questions and
others like them get at the heart of what is important for each student. They
also focus on questions pertinent to student outcomes rather than assuming that
the rankings number got it right.

The president of Sarah Lawrence College and others are correct in pointing out
the flaws (at best) and sham (at worst) of U.S. News' report on ''America's Best
Colleges,'' but the ranking guide is not going away soon -- it's a big seller.

But the importance of such reports in the college search process can certainly
be diminished if students, parents and counselors focus on fit rather than name
recognition. Students are very good at naming the people in their lives, as well
as famous people, who are successful and happy, but usually don't know where (or
even whether) these people went to college. I challenge them to find out, and
they most often report that they were surprised to learn how many had gone to
lesser-known or ''lower-ranked'' colleges.

If I could wave a magic wand this spring, I would make the rankings go away.
Lacking magical powers, I'll ask for the next best thing: a thoughtful,
student-centered college search process that ends with a good fit for each
student and allows the students, their families and their school counselors to
celebrate the choice, regardless of where it ranks on any list.

Martha O'Connell, former vice president for enrollment at McDaniel College in
Maryland, is now executive director of the nonprofit Colleges That Change Lives.
She wrote this for the Baltimore Sun.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            July 19, 2017 Wednesday

Choosing a Major: What do I want to be when I grow up?

SECTION: HBG; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 501 words


Editor's Note: Gina Sirach is the Executive Dean of Academic Services for
Southeastern Illinois College in Harrisburg.

"What do I want to be when I grow up?" This is a common question posed by both
traditional and non-traditional students. Students often inquire about the
possible career/college major options but give the following stipulations:

"I want to make a lot of money."

"I don't want to take a lot of hard classes."

And finally...."I don't want to spend half of my life in school."

Choosing a major is the most important decision a student will make in college,
as this decision affects career options after graduation. While choosing a
college major and future career is a very difficult and important, there are
many things that students can do to allow them a chance to explore options and
assist in the decision making process.

Talk to an advisor. College advisors have many resources available to them to
assist students. Advisors can assist students in obtaining important information
about academic options, and they can help students develop an educational plan
that will get them started on a career path.

Schedule a job shadowing experience. Job shadowing can be arranged to allow
students to learn about career options. The experience is a wonderful career
exploration activity as it allows first-hand experience in the workplace. It
also allows an opportunity to talk to people who are working in the field and
expand the career network.

Visit a college class. Many community colleges are very open to allowing
prospective students to visit classes they think they may be interested in
taking. This experience provides students with a better idea of what a college
class is like, and it allows students an opportunity to decide if the course
content is interesting enough to study for a college career.

Review college and career websites. Every college and university has a website
that contains program and course information about courses of study offered.
Curriculum guides will list specific classes required, as well as the total
credit hours for the program. General information about the college and the
faculty is also listed. Career websites provide information about job demand,
salary, work environment, and educational requirements.

Follow your passion. It is very important to engage in self-reflection to
determine interests and academic abilities. Students should decide who they are
and what they want to do. It is wise to avoid choosing a major/career simply
because others have chosen it or someone suggests it. Students are more likely
to be actively engaged in coursework about which they are interested. As
Confucius stated, "Choose a job you love, and you will never have to work a day
in your life."

Proper college and career planning may take some time and effort, but it is an
essential component of college and career readiness. Students who spend adequate
time in selecting a major and career path will reap the benefits of a very long,
successful and rewarding career.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gina Sirach Gina Sirach

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              18 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Albert & Logan News (Australia)

                           January 16, 2008 Wednesday
                                  1 - Edition

Uni, TAFE in vogue

BYLINE: ByMONIQUE ROSS

LENGTH: 350 words


MORE than half of Logan school leavers study at university or TAFE, while the
infrastructure boom has seen a rise in the number of graduates choosing
apprenticeships and traineeships.

The State Government's Next Step 2007 report provides a broad picture of the
employment and study choices made by Logan graduates.

The report surveyed more than 30,000 students who graduated Year 12 in 2006.

At John Paul College, 92 per cent of students chose university or TAFE, along
with 56 per cent at Springwood State High, Shailer Park State High (54 per
cent), Chisholm College (53.3 per cent), Woodridge State High (52 per cent),
Loganlea State High (50.7 per cent), Marsden State High (48.6 per cent), Mabel
Park State High (44.7 per cent), and Kingston College (39.1 per cent). The state
average was 63 per cent.

Woodridge State High School had the highest rate of Vocational Education and
Training (VET) with 34 per cent of students choosing these options.

It was 30.1 per cent at Springwood State High, Loganlea (29.2 per cent), Mabel
Park (29.8 per cent), Kingston (27.6 per cent), Shailer Park (24.1 per cent),
and Chisholm College (14.3 per cent).

Kingston College had the highest level of students choosing apprenticeships or
traineeships with 19.2 per cent; followed by Loganlea with 18.5 per cent;
Springwood (18.2 per cent), Marsden (17.4 per cent), Chisholm (16.9 per cent),
Woodridge (16 per cent), Shailer Park (14.9 per cent) and Mabel Park (10.6 per
cent).

The number of students choosing full or part-time employment was slightly lower
than the level of students going into study or training.

The figure was highest at Mabel Park State High School, which recorded 42.6 per
cent of applicants, followed by Shailer Park State High (40.2 per cent),
Kingston College (39.1 per cent), Marsden State High (37.7 per cent), Springwood
State High (35.7 per cent), Woodridge State High (27.7 per cent) and Chisholm
College (24.7 per cent). The state average was 29.3 per cent.

Results for St Francis College, Crestmead; Calvary College and Kimberley College
were not available.

* Back to school feature, pages 39-43

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ALW


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2017 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                 November 2017

                             WWICS Estates Pvt. Ltd

                                7025 Tomken Road
                              Mississauga L5S 1R6
                                     Canada

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (905) 564-7797
FAX: (905) 564-8309
URL: www.wwicsgroup.com

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
EMPLOYEES: 750

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   We provide world-class services to students like: Choosing the Right Country:
Attending college or university at international level still remains a big dream
for many young individuals mainly because these advanced countries offer the
best education in the world. A Degree from these Universities/Colleges is
recognized worldwide and students, who graduate from here, have brilliant
careers wherever they go. Therefore, choosing the right country for study is
very important.  Choosing the Right University/College : Assistance to zero-in
upon those Universities / Colleges across the globe that best suit their
academic profile, study goals, financial positions and life-style.  Choosing the
Right Study Program: What career should you be opting for? WWICS would guide you
through the maze of questions, to find solutions that best suit your academic
profile and/or constraints, helping you choose the best career pathway.
Admission Services: Special attention is given to your Application, highlighting
the essential areas for a well presented and an error-free application. WWICS
follows up with the chosen Universities and ensures positive and prompt
response.  Visa Services: We help you with Visa formalities like applications,
financial statements, interviews and everything, right up to the last-stage
details like pre-departure briefing, accommodation, post-arrival
problem-solving. Special care is taken to counsel the parents regarding the
services provided by us at each and every stage

* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *

REVENUE: USD 150,000,000

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2017


                              20 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     September 22, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

American College of Cardiology Updates Heart Attack Recommendations

LENGTH: 766  words


Sept. 22 -- American College of Cardiology Foundation issued the following news
release:

In response to new science showing that complete revascularization of all
significantly blocked arteries leads to better outcomes in some heart attack
patients, the American College of Cardiology has withdrawn its Choosing Wisely
recommendation that patients and caregivers examine whether this practice is
truly necessary.

As part of its ABIM Foundation Choosing Wisely list of five things providers and
patients should question released in April 2012, the ACC recommended questioning
any intervention beyond unblocking just the "culprit" artery responsible for the
heart attack in a hemodynamically stable patient.

At the time the list was released, there were several non-randomized studies
demonstrating harm to patients when treating all significantly blocked arteries.

However, over the last two years, new science has emerged showing potential
improvements for some patients in their overall outcomes as a result of complete
revascularization.

"Science is not static but rather constantly evolving," said ACC President
Patrick T. O'Gara, M.D., FACC. "As such, one of the ACC's primary roles is to
stay abreast of this evolution and provide cardiovascular professionals and
patients with the most up-to-date information on which to base decisions about
the most appropriate and necessary treatment. The newest findings regarding
coronary revascularization are great examples of science on the move, and we are
responding accordingly."

Results from the Complete Versus Lesion Only PRimary-PCI Trial (CvLPRIT)
released earlier this month found that patients undergoing complete
revascularization had better outcomes and experienced fewer major adverse
cardiac events compared to those who had only their "culprit" artery
revascularized. These results reinforce data from another trial, the Preventive
Angioplasty in Myocardial Infarction (PRAMI) Trial released in 2013, that show
stenting all coronary arteries with major stenoses improves outcomes.

While some questions remain about the exact timing of the procedures; whether
certain patients benefit versus others; whether FFR might guide decisions; and
the role of patient complexity and hemodynamic stability, there is additional
need for further data across larger populations. The COMPLETE trial, which is
currently in the enrollment phase, will hopefully answer some of these questions
over the next several years.

"Nearly 60 organizations have published lists of tests, treatments and
procedures they say are overused in their specialty as part of the Choosing
Wisely campaign. These lists are based on the latest science and evidence
available at their time of publication," said Daniel Wolfson, M.H.S.A.,
executive vice president and chief operating officer of the ABIM Foundation.

"The ABIM Foundation recognizes that new research and medical guidelines are
published on a regular basis and has developed a set of operating principles to
ensure the accuracy of all Choosing Wisely lists is maintained. After the
initial publication of a list, Choosing Wisely partners have committed to review
it at least annually and also to make any needed updates based on new evidence
or changes to clinical guidelines.

Providing the most accurate, up-to-date information to physicians and patients
is just good medicine. We appreciate ACC's careful review and update of its
Choosing Wisely list."

Moving forward, O'Gara notes the ACC is working with its partners to address
current clinical guideline and appropriate use criteria recommendations in light
of the new research. The College will also be working with the ABIM Foundation
to update its current list of recommendations, as well as develop an additional
list, in the future.

"The more access patients and providers have to accurate information about
treatment options, the more we can ensure care that is truly necessary, free
from harm and cost-effective," he said.

The American College of Cardiology is a 47,000-member medical society that is
the professional home for the entire cardiovascular care team. The mission of
the College is to transform cardiovascular care and to improve heart health. The
ACC leads in the formation of health policy, standards and guidelines.

The College operates national registries to measure and improve care, provides
professional medical education, disseminates cardiovascular research and bestows
credentials upon cardiovascular specialists who meet stringent qualifications.
For more information, visit cardiosource.org/ACC.

Source: American College of Cardiology Foundation

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                           December 17, 2013 Tuesday
                                  Main Edition

value in books;
A good book is a present that's always appreciated

BYLINE: Thomas Sowell; For the AJC

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 671 words


As Christmas approaches, the shopping mall can become a shopping maul. One of
the ways of buying gifts for family and friends, without becoming part of a mob
scene in the stores, is to shop on the Internet. However, for many kinds of
gifts, you want to be able to see it directly, and perhaps handle it, before you
part with your hard-earned cash for it.

One gift for which that is unnecessary is a book. Books are ideal Christmas
presents from the standpoint of saving wear and tear on the buyer.

There are the traditional coffee table books, featuring marvelous photographs by
Ansel Adams or the moving human scenes in the paintings of Norman Rockwell, both
of which are very appropriate books for the holiday season. But there are also
more serious, or even grim, books that some people will appreciate as they read
them in the new year.

One of these latter kinds of books is the recently published, "Why We Won't Talk
Honestly About Race," by Harry Stein. It is a bracing dose of truth, on a
subject where sugarcoated lies have become the norm.

This book says publicly what many people say only privately, whether about
affirmative action, Barack Obama or the ongoing obscenity of gross television
shows about paternity tests, to determine the father of children born to women
whose lifestyle makes it anybody's guess who has fathered their children.

Hopeful signs from the past and the present are also covered, along with honest
and insightful people like Bill Cosby and Shelby Steele. But the abuse to which
such people have been subjected is a sobering reminder that it is still a
struggle to confront racial issues.

A very different book, but one with the same goal of getting at reality, despite
society's prevailing fog of rhetoric, is "Choosing the Right College." For both
students and their parents, this book can be enormously valuable. It is by far
the best college guide, for both its honesty and its insights.

Unlike other college guides, "Choosing the Right College" is judgmental. For
example, it says that Boston College has a "Terrific political science
department" and its graduates in "finance have a fast track to jobs in big
Boston firms," but its "education and sociology departments are mediocre hotbeds
of radical activism."

That kind of information not only helps when deciding which college to attend,
it also helps in choosing which courses to seek out and which to avoid after you
have enrolled. Too many colleges have a narrow and intolerant politicized
atmosphere, with professors giving low grades to students who do not go along
with the leftist vision.

Barnard College is described as having "doctrinaire leftism" that "pervades
every nook and cranny of campus." But MIT is credited with a politically
"diverse or neutral" environment where the students "are too busy for activism."

Unlike most other colleges, Hillsdale College still has "single-sex dorms, with
firm visitation rules" and a "very extensive well-taught core curriculum." It
also has an "almost unanimous political conservatism" that may not be for
everyone. Nor is its isolated location, "in a very cold part of the country."

In short, the 900-plus pages of "Choosing the Right College" lay out in plain
English the pluses and minuses of colleges and universities across the country.
They report, you decide what is right for you.

With so many people already speculating as to who might be the "front runner"
for the Republican nomination for president in 2016, Wisconsin governor Scott
Walker's new book," Unintimidated," may be especially worth reading. It shows a
man of real depth, and with an impressive track record that ought to overshadow
the rhetoric of others, especially among the Washington Republicans.

Unlike the Washington Republicans, Governor Walker has been tested and has come
through with flying colors. His ending the labor unions' sacred cow status in
Wisconsin, in spite of union thuggery in the capitol and death threats to
himself, his wife and his children, tells us what kind of man he is.

Merry Christmas to all.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2013 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              22 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 12, 2013 Thursday

Thomas Sowell: Books that make great gifts this Christmas

BYLINE: By Thomas Sowell Syndicated columnist

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 670 words


As Christmas approaches, the shopping mall can become a shopping maul. One of
the ways of buying gifts for family and friends, without becoming part of a mob
scene, is to shop on the Internet. However, for many kinds of gifts, you want to
be able to see it directly, and perhaps handle it, before you part with your
hard-earned cash for it.

One gift for which that is unnecessary is a book. Books are ideal presents from
the standpoint of saving wear and tear on the buyer.

There are the traditional coffee-table books, featuring marvelous photographs by
Ansel Adams or the moving human scenes in the paintings of Norman Rockwell, both
of which are very appropriate books for the holiday season. But there also are
more serious, or even grim, books that some people will appreciate in the new
year.

One of these latter kinds of books is the recently published "Why We Won't Talk
Honestly About Race" by Harry Stein. It is a bracing dose of truth, on a subject
where sugarcoated lies have become the norm.

This book says publicly what many people say only privately, whether about
affirmative action, Barack Obama or the ongoing obscenity of gross television
shows about paternity tests, to determine the father of children born to women
whose lifestyle makes it anybody's guess who has fathered their children.

Hopeful signs from the past and the present are also covered, along with honest
and insightful people like Bill Cosby and Shelby Steele. But the abuse to which
such people have been subjected is a sobering reminder that it is still a
struggle to confront racial issues.

A very different book, but one with the same goal of getting at reality, despite
society's prevailing fog of rhetoric, is "Choosing the Right College." For both
students and their parents, this book can be enormously valuable. It is by far
the best college guide, for both its honesty and its insights.

Unlike other college guides, "Choosing the Right College" is judgmental. For
example, it says that Boston College has a "Terrific political science
department" and its graduates in "finance have a fast track to jobs in big
Boston firms" but "education and sociology departments are mediocre hotbeds of
radical activism."

That kind of information not only helps when deciding which college to attend,
it also helps in choosing which courses to seek out and which to avoid after you
have enrolled. Too many colleges have a narrow and intolerant politicized
atmosphere, with professors giving low grades to students who do not go along
with the leftist vision.

Barnard College is described as having "doctrinaire leftism" that "pervades
every nook and cranny of campus." But MIT is credited with a politically
"diverse or neutral" environment where the students "are too busy for activism."

Unlike most other colleges, Hillsdale College still has "single-sex dorms, with
firm visitation rules" and a "very extensive well-taught core curriculum." It
also has "almost unanimous political conservatism" that may not be for everyone.
Nor is its isolated location "in a very cold part of the country."

In short, the 900-plus pages of "Choosing the Right College" lay out in plain
English the pluses and minuses of colleges and universities across the country,
calling a spade a spade.

With so many people already speculating as to who might be the "front-runner"
for the Republican nomination for president in 2016, Wisconsin Gov. Scott
Walker's new book, "Unintimidated" may be especially worth reading. It shows a
man of real depth, and with an impressive track record that ought to overshadow
the rhetoric of others, especially among the Washington Republicans.

Unlike the Washington Republicans, Gov. Walker has been tested and has come
through with flying colors. His ending the labor unions' sacred cow status in
Wisconsin, despite union thuggery in the capitol and death threats to himself,
his wife and his children, tells us what kind of man he is.

Merry Christmas to all.

Thomas Sowell is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Charleston Daily Mail (West Virginia)

                          December 11, 2013, Wednesday

Books that make good holiday gifts;
Race relations, college choices and;
politics among good stocking fillers

BYLINE: Thomas Sowell

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P4A

LENGTH: 691 words


AS Christmas approaches, the shopping mall can become a shopping maul. One of
the ways of buying gifts for family and friends, without becoming part of a mob
scene in the stores, is to shop on the Internet.

However, for many kinds of gifts, you want to be able to see it directly, and
perhaps handle it, before you part with your hard-earned cash for it.

One gift for which that is unnecessary is a book. Books are ideal Christmas
presents from the standpoint of saving wear and tear on the buyer.

There are the traditional coffee table books, featuring marvelous photographs by
Ansel Adams or the moving human scenes in the paintings of Norman Rockwell, both
of which are very appropriate books for the holiday season.

But there are also more serious, or even grim, books that some people will
appreciate as they read them in the new year.

One of these latter kinds of books is the recently published "Why We Won't Talk
Honestly About Race" by Harry Stein.

It is a bracing dose of truth, on a subject where sugarcoated lies have become
the norm.

This book says publicly what many people say only privately, whether about
affirmative action, Barack Obama or the ongoing obscenity of gross television
shows about paternity tests, to determine the father of children born to women
whose lifestyle makes it anybody's guess who has fathered their children.

Hopeful signs from the past and the present are also covered, along with honest
and insightful people like Bill Cosby and Shelby Steele. But the abuse to which
such people have been subjected is a sobering reminder that it is still a
struggle to confront racial issues.

A very different book, but one with the same goal of getting at reality, despite
society's prevailing fog of rhetoric, is "Choosing the Right College." For both
students and their parents, this book can be enormously valuable.

It is by far the best college guide, for both its honesty and its insights.

Unlike other college guides, "Choosing the Right College" is judgmental. For
example, it says that Boston College has a "Terrific political science
department" and its graduates in "finance have a fast track to jobs in big
Boston firms" but "Education and sociology departments are mediocre hotbeds of
radical activism."

That kind of information not only helps when deciding which college to attend,
it also helps in choosing which courses to seek out and which to avoid after you
have enrolled.

Too many colleges have a narrow and intolerant politicized atmosphere, with
professors giving low grades to students who do not go along with the leftist
vision.

Barnard College is described as having "doctrinaire leftism" that "pervades
every nook and cranny of campus." But MIT is credited with a politically
"diverse or neutral" environment where the students "are too busy for activism."

Unlike most other colleges, Hillsdale College still has "single-sex dorms, with
firm visitation rules" and a "very extensive well-taught core curriculum."

It also has "almost unanimous political conservatism" that may not be for
everyone. Nor is its isolated location "in a very cold part of the country."

In short, the 900-plus pages of "Choosing the Right College" lay out in plain
English the pluses and minuses of colleges and universities across the country,
calling a spade a spade. They report, you decide what is right for you.

With so many people already speculating as to who might be the "front runner"
for the Republican nomination for president in 2016, Wisconsin governor Scott
Walker's new book,"Unintimidated" may be especially worth reading.

It shows a man of real depth, and with an impressive track record that ought to
overshadow the rhetoric of others, especially among the Washington Republicans.

Unlike the Washington Republicans, Governor Walker has been tested and has come
through with flying colors.

His ending the labor unions' sacred cow status in Wisconsin, in spite of union
thuggery in the capitol and death threats to himself, his wife and his children,
tells us what kind of man he is.

Merry Christmas to all.

Thomas Sowell is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford
University. His website is www.tsowell.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Charleston Newspapers


                              24 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                            December 16, 2013 Monday

Christmas books

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 695 words


As Christmas approaches, the shopping mall can become a shopping maul. One of
the ways of buying gifts for family and friends, without becoming part of a mob
scene in the stores, is to shop on the Internet. However, for many kinds of
gifts, you want to be able to see it directly, and perhaps handle it, before you
part with your hard-earned cash for it.

One gift for which that is unnecessary is a book. Books are ideal Christmas
presents from the standpoint of saving wear and tear on the buyer.

There are the traditional coffee table books, featuring marvelous photographs by
Ansel Adams or the moving human scenes in the paintings of Norman Rockwell, both
of which are very appropriate books for the holiday season. But there are also
more serious, or even grim, books that some people will appreciate as they read
them in the new year.

One of these latter kinds of books is the recently published "Why We Won't Talk
Honestly About Race" by Harry Stein. It is a bracing dose of truth, on a subject
where sugar-coated lies have become the norm.

This book says publicly what many people say only privately, whether about
affirmative action, Barack Obama or the ongoing obscenity of gross television
shows about paternity tests to determine the father of children born to women
whose lifestyle makes it anybody's guess who has fathered their children.

Hopeful signs from the past and the present are also covered, along with honest
and insightful people like Bill Cosby and Shelby Steele. But the abuse to which
such people have been subjected is a sobering reminder that it is still a
struggle to confront racial issues.

A very different book, but one with the same goal of getting at reality, despite
society's prevailing fog of rhetoric, is "Choosing the Right College." For both
students and their parents, this book can be enormously valuable. It is by far
the best college guide, for both its honesty and its insights.

Unlike other college guides, "Choosing the Right College" is judgmental. For
example, it says that Boston College has a "terrific political science
department" and its graduates in "finance have a fast track to jobs in big
Boston firms," but "education and sociology departments are mediocre hotbeds of
radical activism."

That kind of information not only helps when deciding which college to attend,
it also helps in choosing which courses to seek out and which to avoid after you
have enrolled. Too many colleges have a narrow and intolerant politicized
atmosphere, with professors giving low grades to students who do not go along
with the leftist vision.

Barnard College is described as having "doctrinaire leftism" that "pervades
every nook and cranny of campus." But MIT is credited with a politically
"diverse or neutral" environment where the students "are too busy for activism."

Unlike most other colleges, Hillsdale College still has "single-sex dorms, with
firm visitation rules" and a "very extensive well-taught core curriculum." It
also has "almost unanimous political conservatism" that may not be for everyone.
Nor is its isolated location "in a very cold part of the country."

In short, the 900-plus pages of "Choosing the Right College" lay out in plain
English the pluses and minuses of colleges and universities across the country,
calling a spade a spade. They report, you decide what is right for you.

With so many people already speculating as to who might be the "front runner"
for the Republican nomination for president in 2016, Wisconsin Gov. Scott
Walker's new book," Unintimidated" may be especially worth reading. It shows a
man of real depth, and with an impressive track record that ought to overshadow
the rhetoric of others, especially among the Washington Republicans.

Unlike the Washington Republicans, Gov. Walker has been tested and has come
through with flying colors. His ending the labor unions' sacred cow status in
Wisconsin, in spite of union thuggery in the capitol and death threats to
himself, his wife and his children, tells us what kind of man he is.

Merry Christmas to all.

(Thomas Sowell is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford
University, Stanford, Calif. His syndicated column appears Mondays.)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2013 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                           December 12, 2013 Thursday

Thomas Sowell: Books that make great gifts this Christmas

BYLINE: By Thomas Sowell Syndicated columnist

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Columnists

LENGTH: 670 words


As Christmas approaches, the shopping mall can become a shopping maul. One of
the ways of buying gifts for family and friends, without becoming part of a mob
scene, is to shop on the Internet. However, for many kinds of gifts, you want to
be able to see it directly, and perhaps handle it, before you part with your
hard-earned cash for it.

One gift for which that is unnecessary is a book. Books are ideal presents from
the standpoint of saving wear and tear on the buyer.

There are the traditional coffee-table books, featuring marvelous photographs by
Ansel Adams or the moving human scenes in the paintings of Norman Rockwell, both
of which are very appropriate books for the holiday season. But there also are
more serious, or even grim, books that some people will appreciate in the new
year.

One of these latter kinds of books is the recently published "Why We Won't Talk
Honestly About Race" by Harry Stein. It is a bracing dose of truth, on a subject
where sugarcoated lies have become the norm.

This book says publicly what many people say only privately, whether about
affirmative action, Barack Obama or the ongoing obscenity of gross television
shows about paternity tests, to determine the father of children born to women
whose lifestyle makes it anybody's guess who has fathered their children.

Hopeful signs from the past and the present are also covered, along with honest
and insightful people like Bill Cosby and Shelby Steele. But the abuse to which
such people have been subjected is a sobering reminder that it is still a
struggle to confront racial issues.

A very different book, but one with the same goal of getting at reality, despite
society's prevailing fog of rhetoric, is "Choosing the Right College." For both
students and their parents, this book can be enormously valuable. It is by far
the best college guide, for both its honesty and its insights.

Unlike other college guides, "Choosing the Right College" is judgmental. For
example, it says that Boston College has a "Terrific political science
department" and its graduates in "finance have a fast track to jobs in big
Boston firms" but "education and sociology departments are mediocre hotbeds of
radical activism."

That kind of information not only helps when deciding which college to attend,
it also helps in choosing which courses to seek out and which to avoid after you
have enrolled. Too many colleges have a narrow and intolerant politicized
atmosphere, with professors giving low grades to students who do not go along
with the leftist vision.

Barnard College is described as having "doctrinaire leftism" that "pervades
every nook and cranny of campus." But MIT is credited with a politically
"diverse or neutral" environment where the students "are too busy for activism."

Unlike most other colleges, Hillsdale College still has "single-sex dorms, with
firm visitation rules" and a "very extensive well-taught core curriculum." It
also has "almost unanimous political conservatism" that may not be for everyone.
Nor is its isolated location "in a very cold part of the country."

In short, the 900-plus pages of "Choosing the Right College" lay out in plain
English the pluses and minuses of colleges and universities across the country,
calling a spade a spade.

With so many people already speculating as to who might be the "front-runner"
for the Republican nomination for president in 2016, Wisconsin Gov. Scott
Walker's new book, "Unintimidated" may be especially worth reading. It shows a
man of real depth, and with an impressive track record that ought to overshadow
the rhetoric of others, especially among the Washington Republicans.

Unlike the Washington Republicans, Gov. Walker has been tested and has come
through with flying colors. His ending the labor unions' sacred cow status in
Wisconsin, despite union thuggery in the capitol and death threats to himself,
his wife and his children, tells us what kind of man he is.

Merry Christmas to all.

Thomas Sowell is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             July 18, 2017 Tuesday

Choosing a major: What do I want to be when I grow up?

SECTION: HBG; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 498 words


What do I want to be when I grow up?" This is a common question posed by both
traditional and non-traditional students. Students often inquire about the
possible career/college major options but give the following stipulations:

"I want to make a lot of money."

"I don't want to take a lot of hard classes."

And finally...."I don't want to spend half of my life in school."

Choosing a major is the most important decision a student will make in college,
as this decision affects career options after graduation. While choosing a
college major and future career is a very difficult and important, there are
many things that students can do to allow them a chance to explore options and
assist in the decision making process.

Talk to an advisor. College advisors have many resources available to them to
assist students. Advisors can assist students in obtaining important information
about academic options, and they can help students develop an educational plan
that will get them started on a career path.

Schedule a job shadowing experience. Job shadowing can be arranged to allow
students to learn about career options. The experience is a wonderful career
exploration activity as it allows first-hand experience in the workplace. It
also allows an opportunity to talk to people who are working in the field and
expand the career network.

Visit a college class. Many community colleges are very open to allowing
prospective students to visit classes they think they may be interested in
taking. This experience provides students with a better idea of what a college
class is like, and it allows students an opportunity to decide if the course
content is interesting enough to study for a college career.

Review college and career websites. Every college and university has a website
that contains program and course information about courses of study offered.
Curriculum guides will list specific classes required, as well as the total
credit hours for the program. General information about the college and the
faculty is also listed. Career websites provide information about job demand,
salary, work environment, and educational requirements.

Follow your passion. It is very important to engage in self-reflection to
determine interests and academic abilities. Students should decide who they are
and what they want to do. It is wise to avoid choosing a major/career simply
because others have chosen it or someone suggests it. Students are more likely
to be actively engaged in coursework about which they are interested. As
Confucius stated, "Choose a job you love, and you will never have to work a day
in your life."

Proper college and career planning may take some time and effort, but it is an
essential component of college and career readiness. Students who spend adequate
time in selecting a major and career path will reap the benefits of a very long,
successful and rewarding career.

Gina Sirach is the executive dean of academic services for Southeastern Illinois
College in Harrisburg.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              27 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The West Australian (Perth)

                           September 9, 2006 Saturday
                                     METRO

OBE cuts demand for humanities

BYLINE: BETHANY HIATT

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 372  words


High school students are dropping academic subjects such as history and
geography and choosing easier courses like physical education in the first signs
that the introduction of outcomes-based education is eroding standards in Years
11 and 12.

Educators believe the drop-off in humanities is due to Curriculum Council
changes which increase the number of subjects that count towards university
entrance and scrap a requirement that scores in at least one humanities subject
must be included in university entrance calculations.

Under the new system, results from the best four subjects will be used to
calculate tertiary entrance scores.

Heads of geography, history and economics teachers' associations say it is too
early to see a Statewide pattern but top State and private schools are reporting
a sharp drop in the number of Year 10 students choosing to study humanities
subjects, particularly geography, next year.

Applecross Senior High School will not run any Year 11 geography classes next
year.

Rossmoyne SHS principal Leila Bothams said geography numbers had fallen because
more students were choosing physical education and science.

Penrhos College principal Graham Rixon said the school would run just one Year
11 geography class in 2007, down from three this year.

Catholic schools are also hit hard. Emmanuel Catholic College will not run a
Year 11 history class and will cut geography and economics classes from two each
to one per subject.

At Mazenod College, a boys' school, the number choosing physical education has
doubled while the number opting for humanities has halved in Year 11.

Some teachers fear they could lose their jobs as fewer students opt for
humanities. Other ramifications, such as fewer students developing analysis and
essay-writing skills, will not be known for years.

Association of Independent Schools deputy director Valerie Gould said there was
no way of telling whether the lack of a humanities background would be a problem
until the current crop of students started university.

Independent Education Union secretary Theresa Howe said humanities teachers held
genuine concerns they could lose their jobs.

Curriculum Council chief executive David Wood said enrolment patterns would be
closely monitored.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 West Australian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 17, 1995, Monday, FIVE STAR Edition

THE WORD ON 'ZERO TOLERANCE' IS SPREAD AT COMMUNITY COLLEGES

BYLINE: Linda Eardley Of the Post-Dispatch Staff The Associated Press
contributed information for this story.

SECTION: ILLINOIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 385 words


If you're under 21 and caught driving with any trace of alcohol in your system,
you will lose your drivers license.

In other words: Kiss it goodbye.

That is the message being spread at community colleges throughout Illinois this
month, which is both Alcohol Awareness Month and Community College Month.

The awareness campaign focuses on the state's zero tolerance law, which went
into effect Jan. 1.

"We feel a strong need to contribute our efforts to raise the consciousness of
our students to prevent driving under the influence of alcohol and other
substances," Geraldine Evans, executive director of the system of 49 community
colleges, said last week.

Many campuses are holding drinking programs showing the dangers of drinking and
driving. They also are distributing posters and pamphlets that are part of the
campaign involving the Illinois Community College Board and the state Department
of Transportation.

The posters and pamphlets explain the law and show a drivers license with a red
lipstick print on top. "Kiss it goodbye if you drink and drive," they say. "We
want you to live a long, healthy and happy life. Please take care of your future
and obey the zero tolerance law."

In January, Belleville Area College distributed a pamphlet with every paycheck
to 1,500 faculty and staff members to alert them to the new law for the sake of
their teen students and their teen children.

Only 10 percent of the 14,000 students on BAC's three main campuses and 22
extension sites are under 21 years old. The average age is 31.

"So many parents attend here who don't know the law went into effect," said
Linda Cowden, co-chairman of a campus wellness organization called Choosing
Healthy Options Involving Community Education (CHOICE).

Other programs at BAC will include a visit this week by the Grim Reaper, along
with the souls of drunk-driving victims, and a "mocktail party" next week
featuring non-alcoholic drinks.

Violators of the zero tolerance law have their licenses suspended for three
months for a first offense and 12 months for a repeat offense. Penalties double
for minors who refuse to be tested.  From Jan. 1 through April 7, the state
suspended 741 licenses under the law. Nearly 10 percent of the suspensions were
for young drivers who refused to be tested.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              29 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                             April 24, 2016 Sunday

THE ELECTORALEQUATION

SECTION: ; Pg. P9

LENGTH: 436 words


How votes per state are distributed

Who are the electors?

The Constitution requires that electors can't work for the federal government
and can't vote for a president and vice president who are both from their own
state. And that's it. The rest is up to each state.

During early presidential elections (before 24/7 coverage of candidates),
"people were more likely to know who their electors were than to know the
presidential candidates," says Tara Ross, author of Enlightened Democracy: The
Case for the Electoral College.

Some states choose electors during party conventions; some states have the party
central committee pick electors; in Pennsylvania, presidential candidates choose
their own electors. Electors are "prominent party figures" in their state
(governors, state legislature leaders, long-term poll workers), loyal party
members who can be counted on to vote in accordance with their state's popular
vote. In a year like this, with a highly contested election even before the
national conventions, states will be very careful in choosing electors, Neale
says. "They'll want to go the extra mile to make sure the electors are fully
committed."

Are superdelegates a factor?

They aren't. "The primary process and the Electoral College are two completely
different things; they're not at all connected," says Ross. Primaries, caucuses,
delegates, superdelegates and conventions are all about choosing a candidate and
have nothing to do with the Electoral College. The Electoral College is about
choosing a president.

What if there's a tie?

Fasten your seat belts, because it's going to be a bumpy night. If there's a tie
on Jan. 6 (the day electoral votes are counted), the newly elected Congress
immediately holds a "contingent election" in which the House of Representatives
elects the president and the Senate elects the vice president.

The twist: Every state gets the same number of votes, regardless of population.
So California, with 55 electoral votes, gets one vote in the House and two votes
in the Senate; Rhode Island, with three electoral votes, also gets one vote in
the House and two votes in the Senate. A contingent election raises some
interesting issues, says Neale. "If each state casts a single vote, what if that
state's House members split evenly? If you're a representative, you have in your
own mind, Do I vote for the candidate who won the national vote statewide? Do I
vote for the candidate who won in my district? " Congress has two weeks to elect
the new president and vice president and can't address other legislation until
that decision is final.

Alabama Certificate of Vote from 2012

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              30 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            April 23, 2016 Saturday

THE ELECTORALEQUATION

SECTION: ; Pg. SPD9

LENGTH: 436 words


How votes per state are distributed

Who are the electors?

The Constitution requires that electors can't work for the federal government
and can't vote for a president and vice president who are both from their own
state. And that's it. The rest is up to each state.

During early presidential elections (before 24/7 coverage of candidates),
"people were more likely to know who their electors were than to know the
presidential candidates," says Tara Ross, author of Enlightened Democracy: The
Case for the Electoral College.

Some states choose electors during party conventions; some states have the party
central committee pick electors; in Pennsylvania, presidential candidates choose
their own electors. Electors are "prominent party figures" in their state
(governors, state legislature leaders, long-term poll workers), loyal party
members who can be counted on to vote in accordance with their state's popular
vote. In a year like this, with a highly contested election even before the
national conventions, states will be very careful in choosing electors, Neale
says. "They'll want to go the extra mile to make sure the electors are fully
committed."

Are superdelegates a factor?

They aren't. "The primary process and the Electoral College are two completely
different things; they're not at all connected," says Ross. Primaries, caucuses,
delegates, superdelegates and conventions are all about choosing a candidate and
have nothing to do with the Electoral College. The Electoral College is about
choosing a president.

What if there's a tie?

Fasten your seat belts, because it's going to be a bumpy night. If there's a tie
on Jan. 6 (the day electoral votes are counted), the newly elected Congress
immediately holds a "contingent election" in which the House of Representatives
elects the president and the Senate elects the vice president.

The twist: Every state gets the same number of votes, regardless of population.
So California, with 55 electoral votes, gets one vote in the House and two votes
in the Senate; Rhode Island, with three electoral votes, also gets one vote in
the House and two votes in the Senate. A contingent election raises some
interesting issues, says Neale. "If each state casts a single vote, what if that
state's House members split evenly? If you're a representative, you have in your
own mind, Do I vote for the candidate who won the national vote statewide? Do I
vote for the candidate who won in my district? " Congress has two weeks to elect
the new president and vice president and can't address other legislation until
that decision is final.

Alabama Certificate of Vote from 2012

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              31 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                          February 15, 2006 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Play it safe;
TERTIARY CHOICES 2006

BYLINE: Melinda Ham

SECTION: SUPPLEMENT; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 461 words


There's no room for rash decisions when it comes to choosing a college, writes
Melinda Ham.

Choosing a private college is one of the most significant choices you may make.
It will determine the quality of your education, your option to transfer to a
university later and also your possible career path.

NSW and ACT have about 250 colleges to choose from.

Ensure the college you pick is accredited, says Tim Smith, chief executive of
the Australian Council for Private Education and Training, the private colleges'
peak body. If you are pursuing a qualification or certification, the course
itself should also have national approval. You can check if a college is
accredited by the NSW Vocational Education and Training Accredition Board by
going to the National Training Information Services website, www.ntis .gov.au.
Then either search by keying in

the college name, course title, level of course or industry sector. If it's not
listed, it's not registered.

You can also ensure your course is accredited by checking the Australian
Qualifications Framework (AQF) register, which records all state
government-approved private and public higher education providers that provide
degree courses. See www.highered.nsw.gov.au.

It's important to take an accredited course from a registered provider because
it means the college has complied with rigorous requirements and that employers
will recognise your qualification, Smith says. It will also enable your seamless
transition onto further study, including university entry.

Colleges usually proudly display the AQF logo to give more weight to their
course offerings, but you should also ask them if this accreditation is up to
date.

Some private colleges - such as the Eastern Suburbs Community College - offer
short courses over a couple of weeks' study which do not lead to any recognised
qualification. These courses are more interest or hobby-related. They could
include topics such as creative writing, photography or meditation.

You may also want to request testimonials of past students or employers. Ask to
see the credentials of the lecturers or teachers and their industry experience.
Ensure the course includes practical work placement if you are hoping to use it
to establish networks and possible job prospects. When choosing a private
college, you should also compare payment options. Some colleges allow you to pay
by semester, module or annually and offer a discount if you pay the full amount
upfront.

Others - such as Martin College - have a special arrangement with a financial
institution, such as the National Australia Bank, which offers a Tertiary
Student Package Deferred Repayment Loan, lending up to $20,000 over a five-year
period

with a preferential interest rate. See www.national.com.au for more details.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 22, 2014 Wednesday

Pennsylvania: Expert Advice: How to Choose a Major for Sophomores - See more at:
http://www.ycp.edu/news-and-events/news-stories/name-29356-en.html#sthash.Tg45zl
2z.dpuf

LENGTH: 390  words

DATELINE: Harrisburg


York College of Pennsylvania, The State of Pennsylvania has issued the following
News release:

Choosing a major is arguably the most important decision you will make in
college, especially because it can affect your career choices after graduation.

Still, not knowing what to study when first starting college is normal. Your
early years are the perfect time to explore your interests and figure out what
you love doing. In fact, "between 20% and 50% of college students enter their
first year undecided about their major," says David M. Tirpak, assistant
director of career and employment counseling at Howard Community College in
Columbia, Maryland, citing well-known statistics.

What's more, graduating in four years is no longer the norm for most students.
According to a report by the U.S. Department of Education, about 59% of college
students seeking a bachelor's degree now take six years to graduate. With fewer
students completing their degrees in four years and borrowing more student loans
in the process, choosing a major before your junior year is crucial to staying
on track.

We asked college advisors to share their best tips on how to choose a major
that's right for you. Follow these steps to get started.
1. Reflect on what interests you.

The first step in choosing the right major is determining what piques your
interest most. "Learn who you are and what you love," says Karen Evans, the
assistant dean of experiential learning and director of career development at
Albright College in Reading, Pennsylvania. To help you identify what you like,
Evans advises asking your career center for self-assessment resources. She also
recommends reflecting on your past experiences -- jobs you've done, subjects
you've loved studying already -- to determine where your passions lie.

"Take time and think about what you are good at," advises Stephanie Perago,
coordinator of undeclared student advising at York College in York,
Pennsylvania. "I always encourage students to determine their academic
strengths, and then find a way to translate that ability into a career. Who
wants to just punch a clock and earn a paycheck?"
- See more at:
http://www.ycp.edu/news-and-events/news-stories/name-29356-en.html#sthash.Tg45zl
2z.dpuf

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                              May 30, 2016 Monday

The question on everyone's mind

LENGTH: 265  words

DATELINE: HYDERABAD


HYDERABAD, May 30 -- "Brand or branch?" - this question was on the minds of many
students at the The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling for Engineering
Aspirants, and the speakers at the event had their own take on it.


 T. Muralidharan, chairman, TMI Group, said that the brand name of an institute
comes from its alumni, and it represents the past rather than the present or the
future. He said that studying in centres of excellence like IITs might have an
edge, but it is also important in choosing the course that an individual is
passionate about even if it means settling for colleges with decent reputation.
 T. Kishankumar Reddy, former rector, JNTU, Hyderabad, candidly said that the
new set of IITs in the country were not in the league of the old ones. He
advised students and their parents to not blindly aim for any IIT and instead
invest time in researching about the existing teaching faculty and
infrastructure when choosing an institute. Some of the top private colleges in
Telangana are equally good, and parents should visit the colleges personally
rather than depending on the websites.
 Professor of chemical engineering, CBIT, N.L.N. Reddy, felt that there is no
discrimination in the professional world when choosing graduates of allied
courses like mechanical and production engineering or computer science and IT
engineering. He said computer science engineering (CSE) or information
technology (IT) were the same as the industry doesn't differentiate between them
while recruiting candidates.
 He said physically-challenged students are not discriminated anywhere.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Union Daily Times, S.C.

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           February 4, 2017 Saturday

Continuing their educations

BYLINE: Charles Warner, The Union Daily Times, S.C.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 538 words


Feb. 04--UNION -- Three Yellowjackets who signed letters of intent to play
college football say that one of the reasons they chose their respective
colleges was the emphasis they place on education.

In a signing ceremony in the Union County High School Gym Wednesday morning
attended by family members, friends, school and district officials, and fellow
students, Christian Johnson, Tyrese "Ty" Washington, and Shiyun "Shi' Smith
signed letters of intent to play football for Limestone College, Newberry
College, and the University of South Carolina, respectively.

During interviews with The Union Times Thursday morning, the three
student-athletes discussed their reasons for choosing the colleges they did.
Among the reasons they cited were the academic programs offered by each college
and the emphasis the institutions place on student-athletes getting their
education as well as playing sports.

Johnson

Family and friends in the area, teachers committed to the education of
student-athletes, and a coach who understands student-athletes were the reasons
given by Johnson for choosing Limestone.

"It just seemed like the perfect fit for me," Johnson said. "I'd talked with a
lot of schools and Limestone stuck with me all the way. I've got family and
friends up there.

"The teachers there were put there for student-athletes," he said. "I really do
like the campus and Coach Furrey really understands a student-athlete's point of
view."

Washington

Closeness to his family, financial assistance, an opportunity to play his first
year, and educational programs including the subjects he want to major in were
the reasons given by Washington for choosing Newberry.

"First and foremost, it is very close to home, my family is just 35 minutes down
the road," Washington said. "Coach Knight offered me a better deal financially.
He also told me I had a chance to come in and play as a freshman if I come in
and work hard right away.

"Last but not least, they have a great educational program," he said. "They have
a great business administration program and a great communications program, both
of which I want to major in."

Smith

Coaches that make sure their players get their educations, the relationships
with players and coaches, and a lifelong love of the Carolina Gamecocks were the
reasons Smith said he chose USC.

"The coaches will stay in touch with me and make sure my grades will stay up,"
Smith said. "It's just the relationships I feel with the coaches and players.

"I've just been a Carolina fan since I was growing up," he said. "It's been a
dream to play for them."

Stats

As members of the UCHS Football Team, Johnson, Washington, and Smith amassed the
following records on the field.

Johnson

--17 Tackles

--10 Assisted Tackles

--2 Sacks

--7 Pressures

--1 Tackle for Loss

Washington

--42 Tackles

--28 Assists

--6 Sacks

--1 INT

--15 Pressures

--3 Pass Break ups

--7 Tackle for Loss

--1 Forced Fumble

--1 Fumble Recovery

Smith

--67 Receptions for 907 Yards

--10 Receiving TD's

--15 Carries for 54 Yards

--1 Rushing TD

--12 TD's

Charles Warner can be reached at 864-762-4090.

comments powered by Disqus

___ (c)2017 The Union Daily Times (Union, S.C.) Visit The Union Daily Times
(Union, S.C.) at uniondailytimes.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170204-UH-Continuing-their-educations-0204-20170204

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UH


                                 Copyright 2017


                              35 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Union Daily Times, S.C.

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           February 4, 2017 Saturday

Continuing their educations

BYLINE: Charles Warner, The Union Daily Times, S.C.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 546 words


Feb. 04--UNION -- Three Yellowjackets who signed letters of intent to play
college football say that one of the reasons they chose their respective
colleges was the emphasis they place on education.

In a signing ceremony in the Union County High School Gym Wednesday morning
attended by family members, friends, school and district officials, and fellow
students, Christian Johnson, Tyrese "Ty" Washington, and Shiyun "Shi' Smith
signed letters of intent to play football for Limestone College, Newberry
College, and the University of South Carolina, respectively.

During interviews with The Union Times Thursday morning, the three
student-athletes discussed their reasons for choosing the colleges they did.
Among the reasons they cited were the academic programs offered by each college
and the emphasis the institutions place on student-athletes getting their
education as well as playing sports.

Johnson

Family and friends in the area, teachers committed to the education of
student-athletes, and a coach who understands student-athletes were the reasons
given by Johnson for choosing Limestone.

"It just seemed like the perfect fit for me," Johnson said. "I'd talked with a
lot of schools and Limestone stuck with me all the way. I've got family and
friends up there.

"The teachers there were put there for student-athletes," he said. "I really do
like the campus and Coach Furrey really understands a student-athlete's point of
view."

Washington

Closeness to his family, financial assistance, an opportunity to play his first
year, and educational programs including the subjects he want to major in were
the reasons given by Washington for choosing Newberry.

"First and foremost, it is very close to home, my family is just 35 minutes down
the road," Washington said. "Coach Knight offered me a better deal financially.
He also told me I had a chance to come in and play as a freshman if I come in
and work hard right away.

"Last but not least, they have a great educational program," he said. "They have
a great business administration program and a great communications program, both
of which I want to major in."

Smith

Coaches that make sure their players get their educations, the relationships
with players and coaches, and a lifelong love of the Carolina Gamecocks were the
reasons Smith said he chose USC.

"The coaches will stay in touch with me and make sure my grades will stay up,"
Smith said. "It's just the relationships I feel with the coaches and players.

"I've just been a Carolina fan since I was growing up," he said. "It's been a
dream to play for them."

Stats

As members of the UCHS Football Team, Johnson, Washington, and Smith amassed the
following records on the field.

Johnson

--17 Tackles

--10 Assisted Tackles

--2 Sacks

--7 Pressures

--1 Tackle for Loss

Washington

--42 Tackles

--28 Assists

--6 Sacks

--1 INT

--15 Pressures

--3 Pass Break ups

--7 Tackle for Loss

--1 Forced Fumble

--1 Fumble Recovery

Smith

--67 Receptions for 907 Yards

--10 Receiving TD's

--15 Carries for 54 Yards

--1 Rushing TD

--12 TD's

Charles Warner can be reached at 864-762-4090.

Please enable JavaScript to view the disqus.com

comments powered by Disqus

___ (c)2017 The Union Daily Times (Union, S.C.) Visit The Union Daily Times
(Union, S.C.) at uniondailytimes.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170204-UH-Continuing-their-educations-0204-20170204

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UH


                                 Copyright 2017


                              36 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education

                           September 14, 2007 Friday

Why Hispanic Students Choose Hispanic Colleges

BYLINE: ELYSE ASHBURN

SECTION: STUDENTS; Pg. 25 Vol. 54 No. 3

LENGTH: 159 words


Apparently not all teenagers are the cachet-seeking consumers of popular
imagination. A new study from Excelencia in Education found that in choosing a
college, high-achieving Hispanic students often value location, cost, and campus
atmosphere more than prestige.

Understanding that mentality is a step toward figuring out why almost half of
the country's Hispanic students attend the small fraction of colleges designated
as Hispanic-serving institutions.

Those colleges tend to be located in areas with large Hispanic populations, are
relatively inexpensive, and are seen as welcoming.

The report, "Choosing Hispanic-Serving Institutions: A Closer Look at Latino
Students' College Choices," is not nationally representative, but it provides a
window on a group of A and B students who are surprisingly pragmatic in choosing
colleges. They believe that "college is college" and that success is as much
about hard work as it is about the insignia on a diploma.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2007 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             June 15, 2013 Saturday

Engineering colleges should publish pass percentage, HC tells Anna University

SECTION: CHENNAI

LENGTH: 431 words


CHENNAI: Do not commence engineering admission process without first publishing
the pass percentage details of the affiliated engineering colleges for the
academic year 2011-2012. This was the Madras high court's brief, but important,
fiat to the university on Friday. Counselling for engineering admissions is set
to start on June 17.

The first bench passed the orders on a petition seeking publication of pass
percentage and other academic credentials of all engineering colleges affiliated
to the university, so as to help parents take an informed decision on admitting
their children in various colleges.

The bench comprising acting Chief Justice R K Agrawal and Justice M
Sathyanarayanan said: "Anna University is directed to publish the pass
percentage statistics based on the academic performance of engineering colleges
affiliated to it for the year 2011-2012 forthwith in it's website, before
counselling starts." the case was then adjourned after two weeks for further
proceedings.

The matter relates to a PIL filed by a Tirupur resident, U Bhoopalasamy, whose
daughter completed Class 12 this year. Noting that engineering colleges were
choosing similar sounding names in order to mislead parents and students looking
for good institutions, he wanted the court to ask the university to publish the
pass percentage of all colleges, so that students would have enough academic
information on hand while choosing a college during counselling.

The PIL said engineering aspirants do not have a guidebook to make an informed
decision about an institution, and added that the Anna University could rank the
colleges as per their academic performance besides the availability of
infrastructural facilities. Such a rank list should be publicized for the
benefit of students and parents, he said. Government agencies should work to
protect the interests of about 2.5 lakh students waiting to join the colleges,
he said.

"Now that the government has amalgamated all the four Anna universities,
compiling information and ranking the colleges may not be difficult," the
petitioner said. In this regard, he cited a Kerala high court order dated June
28, 2012 directing the authorities and the state government to evaluate
colleges, prepare a report with regard to infrastructure and the education being
imparted in these colleges, and submit a rank list.

The petition wanted the court to ask the university to publish the pass
percentage of all colleges, so that students would have enough academic
information on hand while choosing a college during counseling

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                            April 23, 2016 Saturday
                              CareerOneQLD Edition

MAKE THE RIGHT CHOICE

SECTION: CAREERONE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 275  words


WITH so many options for studying early childhood education and care it is no
wonder people get confused when choosing a training college, says Narelle
Cossettini, principal of Australian Childcare Career Options (ACCCO).

"When making such a decision that may indeed alter your life, or more
importantly children's lives, and with early childhood colleges opening up on
every corner, it is now more important than ever to look closely at what is
being offered by colleges delivering training in early childhood education and
care," Ms Cossettini said.

"ACCCO is an award-winning and industry recommended training college delivering
training to students all over Australia for more than 20 years.

"It specialises in children's services qualifications such as early childhood
education and care, school age education and care, education support and first
aid for children's services, and in 2001 it was chosen to deliver training to
the very first Australian apprentice in children's services." Ms Cossettini said
ACCCO was a Queensland Government preferred supplier delivering funded courses
to eligible participants.

"ACCCO considers choosing a career in early childhood education and care the key
to opening up a child's future," she said.

When choosing an early childhood education and care provider, Ms Cossettini said
to look for a college that was nationally accredited with links to the
workforce, and had trainers with the appropriate qualifications and experience.

To find out more about studying with Australian Childcare Career Options and
more information on funding eligibility, call the college or visit the website.

Tel: 1300 139 406accco.com.au

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Courier-Mail


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                            August 22, 2015 Saturday
                               Telegraph Edition

Care can be bad for you

BYLINE: CARLEEN FROST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 324  words


LEADING doctors' groups have backed a movement to eliminate unnecessary medical
treatments.

The Choosing Wisely initiative aims to reduce or cut out tests, treatments,
medications and procedures which have little or no benefit to a patient-, or may
even cause harm, to produce "better quality care".

It comes as a top surgeon this week urged his colleagues to be more objective
with elderly patients, amid claims some are administering futile treatment to
"corpses".

Choosing Wisely launched in Australia this year and has the backing of 12
leading medicinal societies and colleges including the Australian College of
Nursing, The Royal Australian College of General Practitioners, and most
recently, The Royal Australasian College of Physicians.

Each group has submitted a list of treatments and procedures they believe are
unnecessary - including food allergy testing, prostate cancer screening, vitamin
D screening, the prescription of benzodiazepines and ankle and spine imaging,
which could save up to $600 million a year.

The movement began in the US three years ago but has been criticised for
focussing on cost savings, rather than patient care.

Choosing Wisely advisory group inaugural chair Richard King said the local arm
would try to learn from the US launch. Associate professor King said the focus
was on better health outcomes for patients but financial savings would be a
welcome spin-off.

"Medical interventions and medical regimens and pathology and radiology really
doesn't save much money in hospitals," he said.

"The thing that it does do is free up time and space for other people to have
more appropriate tests." Westmead Hospital surgeon Henry Pleass this week told a
conference he was often amazed that some very elderly or sick patients were
still being treated, saying often doctors were treating "a corpse, so to
speak".The Choosing Wisely initiative is facilitated in Australia by National
Prescribing Service MedicineWise.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Telegraph


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                             January 8, 2007 Monday

FOCUS ON FACES Making that choice

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 490 words


MAKING a choice that will shape your life - that's what going to college is. I
went to secondary school in Magh Ene College, Bundoran, Co Donegal, and I
remember that choosing a college to go to was a huge task and it wasn't made any
easier by trying to study for my Leaving Cert at the same time.

The first piece of advice I would give anyone applying to college is, don't
panic! It's not that hard and when you look back at your college days, you'll
ask yourself the question; "What was I so worried about?"

I attended Sligo Institute of Technology for four years and completed my Honours
Degree in Business (Strategic Management & Planning). Every student must ask
themselves, before choosing third-level education, why they want to go to
college and what they want to get out of it?

For my part I went to college to further my education to the next level. I had
heard so much about college life that I also wanted to experience what third
level education had to offer. In hindsight, I realise that the experience is a
major part of what college is all about.

When choosing a college I would be mindful as to what the college as to offer
both inside and outside of the lecture hall. By this I mean, not only do you
want to receive the best academic education possible but you also want to enjoy
the college experience. In this day and age all the State-funded colleges are
quality-assured with the help of the input of students who are already studying
the courses. So the question now becomes about what else does the college have
to offer.

Clubs, societies, events, the good, the bad, the ugly; all life is represented
here.

Learning can happen anywhere and at any time. I think that the saying is:
"Learning is reflection on experience". When looking for a college it's
important to keep an eye out for what's happening on campuses and what new
experiences are on offer. It's important to look at how you can develop as a
person. In my case it was the Students' Union that gave me an opportunity to
develop my skills and expertise in a variety of areas and a plethora of ways and
I had a bit of craic while I was at it!

College can be a lonely place sometimes - try not get disheartened. If you don't
make the right choice for you in either course or college, you can pull out and
apply next year. A year is a very short time.

There are dates that you can pull out by so that you can still avail of free
fees when repeating first year in a different course or college. If in doubt,
ask someone in the College or the Students' Union for assistance. The CAO can be
hard if you only miss out by five points and don't get your first choice.

I didn't receive my first choice and got my second and that was the best thing
that could have happened for me in the long run. Finally, wherever you apply,
whatever you study, whatever you get involved in, enjoy it.

Colm Hamrogue is

President, Union of

Students in Ireland

Colm Hamrogue

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   West Central Tribune (Willmar, Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 16, 2010 Thursday

Free admissions workshops set to guide students in selecting college

BYLINE: Linda Vanderwerf, West Central Tribune, Willmar, Minn.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 724 words


Sept. 16--WILLMAR -- A series of free workshops to help high school students and
their families choose and apply to colleges begins Monday.

Todd Johnson, a Willmar lawyer with a college admissions consulting business,
will present the workshops, which are open to the public. Each workshop will be
held from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. at the Willmar Public Library's second-floor meeting
room.

Johnson volunteers his time to help students in Willmar and west central
Minnesota.

Through his consulting bu-siness, Johnson works with students and families
across the country.

The series of workshops begins with "Applying to College," geared to high school
seniors.

On Oct. 4, "I haven't started yet," will address "seniors who haven't done
anything," Johnson said.

It's late to be starting the process, he said, but there is still time for
seniors to find the right school and take the right tests to apply.

Other workshops target different audiences. Over the course of the series,
students and parents will find out how to apply for financial aid and how to
write application essays.

One workshop will address the common mistakes students and families make in
choosing a college.

It's important for families to understand how financial aid works and how to
choose a school, Johnson said.

"It's a lot of money to spend without knowing what you're doing," he said.

In the past, Johnson has held a small college fair at Willmar Senior High in the
spring, but he no longer plans to do that because the turnout was not very high.

He does recommend that students looking for a college should consider going to
the National College Fair on Oct. 6 and 7 at the Minneapolis Convention Center
or the Minnesota Education Fair at Ridgewater College on Oct. 14.

For more information about the programs, contact Johnson at 320-262-9955 or
todd@collegeadmissionspartners.com

This is a list of the college admissions meetings scheduled through April:

Sept. 20 -- "Applying to College," for seniors. It provides information about
the application process, when to apply, which application to use and how to get
the best recommendation. Also tips on writing college application essays.

Oct. 4 -- "I Haven't Started Yet," for seniors. Information will be available
about finding the right college fast, basic financial aid, which tests to take
and applications.

Oct. 18 -- "Selective College Admissions," for freshmen, sophomores, juniors.
Topics include how hard it is to get into a selective college, importance of
early planning, what activities and classes selective colleges like to see.

Nov. 1 -- "Finding the Right College," for sophomores and juniors. A
presentation about when to start the search for a college, things to consider in
choosing a college and the 25 most common mistakes made in choosing a college.

Jan. 10, 2011 -- "The FAFSA: Everything You Need to Know," for seniors. Johnson
will review of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid and answers to
audience questions.

Feb. 7, 2011 -- "Finding the Right College," for sophomores and juniors. This is
a repeat of the Nov. 1 presentation.

Feb. 14, 2011 -- "ACT/SAT: What You Need to Know about the Tests," for
sophomores and juniors. Topics include test preparation, which test to take,
which test score to send and the best test prep. Also addresses whether students
need to take the tests.

March 7, 2011 -- "Financial Aid and Scholarships," for sophomores and juniors. A
preparatory session about how financial aid works, where to find scholarships,
what to ask colleges about financial aid. Also a talk about how choosing the
right college can save thousands of dollars.

April 11, 2011 -- "What Parents of Freshmen and Sophomores Need to Know about
College." This includes advice about what classes to take, activities in and out
of school, understanding basic financial aid. Participants will receive a
timeline for college admissions covering all four years.

To see more of the West Central Tribune, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.wctrib.com. Copyright (c) 2010, West Central Tribune, Willmar, Minn.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail services@mctinfoservices.com, or
call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States, call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20100916-YM-Free-admissions-workshops-set-to-guide-students-in-selecting-college
-0916-20100916

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YM


                      Copyright 2010 West Central Tribune


                              42 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       June 2, 2012 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

Alliance Health Networks Selected as a Collaborator in Choosing Wisely Campaign
to Raise Awareness of Unnecessary Medical Tests

LENGTH: 617  words


New Delhi, June 2 -- Alliance Health Networks, the leading social networking
company serving consumers and the healthcare industry, today announced that it
has been selected by Consumer Reports, the world's largest independent
product-testing organization, as a consumer communications collaborator in the
Choosing Wisely campaign, a project recently launched by the ABIM Foundation to
raise awareness of medical tests and procedures that may be unnecessary.

Alliance Health is one of 11 organizations - including AARP, the Wikipedia
community and the National Business Coalition on Health - selected to
disseminate information and educate consumers about Choosing Wisely. Through its
social networks the company will help encourage patients to understand their
options and engage in more informed discussions with their physicians. Alliance
Health owns and operates more than 50 social networks that connect more than 1.5
million registered members. It is the only digital health company selected as a
Choosing Wisely collaborator to date.

"We are honored to have been selected by Consumer Reports to serve as one of its
content collaborators on this far-reaching initiative," said Stead Burwell, CEO
of Alliance Health. "It underscores the role social networks can play in
empowering patients to engage in important conversations with their physicians
and ultimately improve their healthcare."

Beginning this summer, Alliance Health will launch topic pages within its online
communities dedicated entirely to the Choosing Wisely campaign. The pages will
feature articles, videos, discussion boards, interactive polls and other content
relevant to Choosing Wisely and will be promoted on each site's home page and
through newsletters to community members.

The Choosing Wisely topic pages will initially launch on several of the
company's most popular social networks, including Diabetic Connect, Heart
Connect, Sleep Connect and Arthritis Connect, among others.

The Choosing Wisely initiative has been embraced by nine leading physician
specialty societies, including the American College of Physicians, the American
College of Radiology, and the American Academy of Family Physicians. These nine
associations have identified specific tests or procedures that are commonly used
but not always necessary in their respective fields.

A 2010 survey of Consumer Reports readers - nearly 1,200 healthy 40-60 year old
men and women, with no known heart disease, risk factors or symptoms - showed
that 44 percent had received screening tests for heart disease rated by Consumer
Reports as unlikely or very unlikely to have benefits that outweigh the risks.

"When choosing consumer-focused collaborators to help us communicate the
importance of the Choosing Wisely campaign, it was critical that we include
organizations with the ability to reach at least a million people in a
meaningful way," said John Santa, director of the Consumer Reports Health
Ratings Center. "Alliance Health's wide array of health-related online
communities uniquely enable patients to learn more about their individual
conditions and engage in conversations with peers who share their health
challenges. It is critical that consumers have the most useful and timely
information to help them make smart decisions about their healthcare. The
Choosing Wisely campaign helps them to do just that."

The complete list of the specialty societies and communication collaborators
involved in the campaign is available at www.ChoosingWisely.org. The site
includes a list of 45 commonly prescribed tests and procedures that may be
unnecessary, along with information of when a particular test may be appropriate
based on clinical evidence and guidelines.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 21, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Annual Poll Of Freshmen Shows Effect Of Recession

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 593 words


The recession hit this year's college freshmen hard, affecting how they chose a
school as well as their ability to pay for it, according to an annual nationwide
survey released Thursday.

Over all, students were more likely than previous freshmen to have a parent who
was unemployed and less likely to have found a job that might help pay for
college.

About two-thirds of incoming students said they had ''some'' or ''major''
concern about their ability to pay for their education. The percentage of those
with ''some'' concern -- 55.4 -- was at its highest level since 1971.

The number of students taking out loans was at its highest in nine years, at
53.3 percent.

''We expected that, given what we were seeing last year in the economy, we would
see some significant changes in how finances were impacting people's ability to
pay,'' said John H. Pryor, director of the Cooperative Institutional Research
Program at the University of California, Los Angeles, which conducts the survey.

''What was more surprising,'' he said, ''was that it goes beyond just that into
other areas. Everywhere we turned, whether it was how you chose your college or
what do you think you are going to do in college, everywhere the finances piece
popped out.''

The survey, which has been conducted for 44 years, asked about 220,000 incoming
students at 297 campuses questions on everything from beer drinking habits and
religious and political preferences to anticipated major and life goals. The
answers were weighted to represent the 1.4 million full-time first-year students
who entered 1,555 colleges and universities nationwide in the fall of 2009.
(Each percentage point in the survey reflects the experience of roughly 14,000
students.)

When the survey was done in 2008, as the recession was deepening, researchers
were somewhat surprised that the percentage of students taking out loans had not
shifted appreciably. That changed this year, with the percentage climbing 3.9
points.

Students reported fewer resources to draw on. The number whose fathers were
unemployed -- 4.5 percent -- was the highest in the history of the survey. The
number of students whose mothers were unemployed was higher -- 7.9 percent --
and at its highest since 1979.

Fewer students reported working as high school seniors -- 62.8 percent reported
having a job, down from 66.4 percent in 2008 and 69.3 percent in 2007. ''What
all this points to is that they are going to be graduating with a larger debt
burden than students in the past,'' Mr. Pryor said.

Students were more likely than ever before to weigh financial factors in
choosing a college: 41.6 percent of students reported that the cost of their
school was a ''very important'' reason for choosing it, the highest number since
the survey asked the question. And 44.7 percent said that an offer of financial
aid from the school had been a very important reason for attending, up from 39.4
percent in 2007.

About 9 percent of students said they chose their college because their first
choice did not offer them financial aid -- the highest since that question was
asked in 1984.

And students seemed acutely aware of value when choosing a college. The factor
most often cited for choosing a school was that its graduates got good jobs --
56.5 percent said this was ''very important,'' the highest rate since the
question was asked in 1985.

However, their ideas on where the good jobs are may be changing: the number of
students saying they expected a career in business had dropped to 12.1 percent,
the lowest since 1976.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Education Week, Bethesda, Md

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 4, 2013 Wednesday

BRIEF: Choosing a College

BYLINE: Caralee J. Adams, Education Week, Bethesda, Md.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 196 words


Dec. 04--What high school students think they want to study in college doesn't
always match their interests and strengths, a new report finds. And that
mismatch can lead to switching majors, transferring schools, and higher college
costs overall.

About one-third of students who recently took the ACT college-entrance exam
signaled plans to major in a subject that was not deemed a good fit with their
academic interests, according to the study by the ACT Inc., the Iowa City,
Iowa-based testing and research organization.

In all, 79 percent of students who took the ACT indicated a particular college
major that they planned to pursue. That information was compared to their
interests and profiles of college students in that same program of study to
develop "interest-major fit scores" for the study.

The majority of ACT-tested graduates chose a major that was at least a moderate
fit with their interests, but only 36 percent selected one that was a good fit
and 32 percent chose a major that fit poorly with their interests, the report
said.

___ (c)2013 Education Week (Bethesda, Md.) Visit Education Week (Bethesda, Md.)
at www.edweek.org Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131204-1ED-BRF-Choosing-a-College-1204-20131204

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1ED


                  Copyright 2013 Education Week, Bethesda, Md


                              45 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday

Choose course over college

BYLINE: Anandita Singh Bhada

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 497 words


NEW DELHI: Be it the classic dilemma of choosing between the best-reputed
college and one's favourite course or doubts over which course one should go
for, there was an answer to every question at The Times of India's Mission
Admission seminar. Aspirants got to know that there's more to choose from than
traditional careers and that there's a need to think beyond Delhi University.

Candidates also got a chance to meet students from different campuses who shared
their experiences at Gyaan Zone, introduced for the first time at Monday's
seminar. The two-day seminar will conclude on Tuesday.

Speakers from different colleges like SRCC and Stephen's as well as experts
interacted with students and parents, responding to queries and clarifying
doubts. Tuesday will include sessions on overseas education and careers in
design.

Speakers told students how to go about choosing a course and career options
available in it. They urged them to take a seat in the first college available.
With every list, the student will find he has more options, even the freedom to
switch colleges.

When it came to choosing between a course and a college, the emphasis was firmly
on the first. Malay Neerav, joint dean, Students' Welfare, said: "It doesn't
make a difference which college you get your undergraduate degree from but the
course you do will matter. Always follow your interest and pursue what you like.
College will get over in three years but the course you do will stay with you
forever." It's also better to get a general undergraduate degree than go for a
programme that restricts your options, like geology or law, if one's unsure
where one's heart lies.

Gyaan Zone was a panel of students from different universities-DU, BML Munjal
University, Maharishi Dayanand University and SGT. College aspirants approached
them with ECA and sports quota queries. The panel also took college-specific
queries.

S K Garg, principal, Dean Dayal Upadhyaya College, said, "If a student has an
interest in more than one course, they should choose the one that has a broader
scope. The possibility of doing post-graduation in that subject is then higher,
since fewer seats are available at the postgraduate level."

Many were doubtful about how to calculate the best-of-four and some asked if
they can apply for bachelors in a subject they did not study in Class XII. Some
worried that, if they already took admission in a college and found that they
met the cutoff for the same subject at a more reputable college at a later
stage, they would not be able to withdraw and re-apply on time. These doubts
continued to linger even after being addressed in Open Day sessions at DU.

For the anxious and the confused, Parveen Malhotra, a career counsellor, had the
final word. She said, "There are so many career options available on today's
date that one need not worry about what to do in life. There are no safe
careers. One will do well in life if they follow their interest."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                            July 22, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Making the right choice on your future education;
SPONSOR'S MESSAGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 620 words


ARE you still thinking about where you want your education to go next? Are you
planning to start college this September but are still not sure where the best
place is for you? At Stockton Riverside College we understand that as a school
leaver choosing your next move is one of the first important decisions you have
to make on your way to your future career.

And with so many opportunities available, it's important you think about all of
your options before making the decision that is right for you. Feel like you
need some extra help? Our Information and Guidance Team are experts in helping
people just like you. Here our information advisers, Cheryl Hodds, Sarah
Kellaway and James Byrne, offer some top tips... Consider all your options OK so
exams are over and finally it's time to really turn your attention to what comes
next. The good news is there are loads of opportunities open to you from
vocational studies to A-levels, apprenticeships to training programmes, so do
your research and make an informed choice.

Already made your decisions? Great! If not, or if you feel you've made the wrong
choice, don't worry, there's still time to look around, see what's on offer, get
some advice and go with what feels right.

Think about long-term goals When it comes to choosing the right route for you
it's worth taking into account where you want to be in the future.

Think about the kind of jobs you might like to do and then create a plan to get
you there.

By taking the time to consider your dreams, and choosing a future career that
fills you with enthusiasm, you are far more likely to succeed and enjoy your
studies along the way.

Not sure what you want to do? Give us a call and make an appointment to see our
dedicated careers adviser who will give you independent advice.

Don't just follow your friends When it comes to choosing what to do next it's
all too easy to follow the crowd, but it's important to remember this is YOUR
future.

We all have our own ambitions and therefore it's important to make decisions
based on what feels right for you, not what's right for your friends. Remember
you won't lose friends just because you go to a different college, in fact
chances are you will make more.

Talk to us Still not sure which direction to take? Come and have a chat with us.
We can talk you through your options, listen to what you have to say and offer
impartial advice focused on what's best for you.

Come and see for yourself Don't take someone else's word for it, come and see
for yourself. Most colleges and training providers will be happy to show you
around, answer any questions you may have and it's a great opportunity to speak
to the tutors and get a real feel of whether a place is for you.

You choose!

While other people can give you advice, ultimately the choice is yours.

Take the time you need to make an informed decision. And remember, if it doesn't
work out it's not the end of the world. There are still plenty of options
available to you.

Are you looking for a college that just feels right, somewhere you can learn and
be inspired but still feel comfortable and supported? Stockton Riverside College
could be the right choice for you.

We pride ourselves on being a friendly and caring college, a place where you can
really fit in and across our three sites at Stockton Riverside College, SRC Bede
Sixth Form and The Skills Academy our inspirational tutors, who are all experts
in their field, will help you to excel.

We are still taking applications for courses starting this September. Want to
know more? Come and see us, check our website at www.stockton.ac.uk or give us a
call: Stockton Riverside College 01642 865 566 SRC Bede Sixth Form 01642 373 250
The Skills Academy 01642 607 464 Apply now!

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: James Byrne, information adviser at Stockton Riverside College ¦Sarah
Kellaway, left, and Cheryl Hodds, information advisers at Stockton Riverside
College ¦

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EGM


                    Copyright 2015 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Mordialloc Chelsea Leader (Australia)

                            June 20, 2007 Wednesday

Students' life options

BYLINE: Suzana Talevski and Wes Hosking

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 318  words


NINETY-three per cent of secondary school students in Kingston last year
received tertiary offers, new data has revealed.

Figures from the Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre showed Mentone Girls'
Grammar School topped the table with 98 per cent of students being offered a
place.

At Mordialloc College 75 per cent of students were offered a place the lowest of
all schools in Kingston.

The Department of Education On Track survey figures show the graduating class of
2006 at Mordialloc College preferred getting a job to further education.

More public school students than private school students are choosing to enter
the workforce straight after school with Mordialloc College leading the way with
36 per cent of its students employed.

More private school students are enrolled at university with more public schools
students taking up vocational education in TAFE or VET courses.

Ten per cent of Year 12 students at Westall Secondary College were looking for
work, choosing not to study the highest in Kingston.

Mordialloc College principal Lorraine Harris said the data showed a growing
number of students were opting to travel overseas after graduation.

''I think what seems to be a trend is the gap year, popular in the UK, is
becoming popular here,'' Mrs Harris said. ''We have a strong international
student program and sometimes students will have more familiarity with what's
happening in Europe,'' she said.

Mrs Harris said more graduates were also choosing to work before embarking on
further study to gain life experience and set themselves up financially.

Stephanie Hof, a former student from Mentone's Kilbreda College, said her
secondary school years helped shape a pathway for her.

Ms Hof is now studying multimedia at Deakin University.

''We had a pretty good range of subjects at school, and especially with the IT
component, it really helped that I knew some things already,'' the Dingley
student said.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: MCV


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily - Africa Weekly

                                 June 22, 2016

Real estate seeing biggest demand for talent

LENGTH: 468  words


An analytical report on professions that are short of talent and jobs that offer
higher salaries could not have come at a better time as students start choosing
university majors after appearing for the national college entrance exam, also
known as gaokao.

Students and their parents seek advice on choosing majors and universities from
staff members of Renmin University of China, Nanjing University and other
institutions at a consultation fair held in Ruijing High School, North China's
Tianjin municipality, June 11, 2016. [Photo/IC]

An analytical report on professions that are short of talent and jobs that offer
higher salaries could not have come at a better time as students start choosing
university majors after appearing for the national college entrance exam, also
known as gaokao.

According to the study, sectors related to real estate, construction,
securities, funds, engineering, e-commerce and internet are seeing the biggest
demand for talented workers.

The demand in internet sector is because of the shortage in established
companies as well as the increase in startups, according to LinkedIn, world's
largest professional network.

To meet the demand, internet companies are also seeking sought-after employees
from service industry, telecommunication, electronics, financial, consumer goods
sector and the cultural and media industry.

The report highlights that junior-level staff members have a higher chance of
promotion if they move to work at an internet company, while only 13.5 percent
of senior-level executives can expect promotion when they move to work at an
internet company.

The report also lists the top 10 businesses offering highest average monthly
pay.

The professional services or consulting industry, including accounting, law and
human resources, rank first with an average monthly pay of 10,649 yuan ($1,618).

The remaining nine businesses are intermediary services with 9,325 yuan, energy
and mineral industry with 9,303 yuan, securities and investment industries with
8,848 yuan, online game businesses with 8,247 yuan, IT services with 7,625 yuan,
network devices with 7,424 yuan, trust-related businesses with 7,344 yuan, real
estate-related industries with 7,263 yuan, and communication services with 7,243
yuan.

Commenting on the report, an internet user named guanyan009 said: "There is
actually a serious shortage of talent in all businesses, especially in rural
areas of China."

Students and their family members discuss majors and universities with staff
members of universities at a consultation fair in Ruijing High School, North
China's Tianjin municipality, June 11, 2016. [Photo/IC]

Parentsdiscuss majors and universities with staff members of universities at a
consultation fair in Ruijing High School, North China's Tianjin municipality,
June 11, 2016. [Photo/IC]

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1497


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                            June 22, 2016 Wednesday

Real estate seeing biggest demand for talent

LENGTH: 508  words


An analytical report on professions that are short of talent and jobs that offer
higher salaries could not have come at a better time as students start choosing
university majors after appearing for the national college entrance exam, also
known as gaokao.

Students and their parents seek advice on choosing majors and universities from
staff members of Renmin University of China, Nanjing University and other
institutions at a consultation fair held in Ruijing High School, North China's
Tianjin municipality, June 11, 2016. [Photo/IC]

An analytical report on professions that are short of talent and jobs that offer
higher salaries could not have come at a better time as students start choosing
university majors after appearing for the national college entrance exam, also
known as gaokao.

According to the study, sectors related to real estate, construction,
securities, funds, engineering, e-commerce and internet are seeing the biggest
demand for talented workers.

The demand in internet sector is because of the shortage in established
companies as well as the increase in startups, according to LinkedIn, world's
largest professional network.

To meet the demand, internet companies are also seeking sought-after employees
from service industry, telecommunication, electronics, financial, consumer goods
sector and the cultural and media industry.

The report highlights that junior-level staff members have a higher chance of
promotion if they move to work at an internet company, while only 13.5 percent
of senior-level executives can expect promotion when they move to work at an
internet company.

The report also lists the top 10 businesses offering highest average monthly
pay.

The professional services or consulting industry, including accounting, law and
human resources, rank first with an average monthly pay of 10,649 yuan ($1,618).

The remaining nine businesses are intermediary services with 9,325 yuan, energy
and mineral industry with 9,303 yuan, securities and investment industries with
8,848 yuan, online game businesses with 8,247 yuan, IT services with 7,625 yuan,
network devices with 7,424 yuan, trust-related businesses with 7,344 yuan, real
estate-related industries with 7,263 yuan, and communication services with 7,243
yuan.

Commenting on the report, an internet user named guanyan009 said: "There is
actually a serious shortage of talent in all businesses, especially in rural
areas of China."

Students and their family members discuss majors and universities with staff
members of universities at a consultation fair in Ruijing High School, North
China's Tianjin municipality, June 11, 2016. [Photo/IC]

Parentsdiscuss majors and universities with staff members of universities at a
consultation fair in Ruijing High School, North China's Tianjin municipality,
June 11, 2016. [Photo/IC]

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/38/146659869102.jpg

eca86bd9e2f918d476070d.jpg

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/45/146659869280.jpg

eca86bd9e2f918d475b20c.jpg

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/21/146659869469.jpg

eca86bd9e2f918d477010e.jpg

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Oklahoman

                            November 13, 2005 Sunday
                                  City Edition

Advisers help pick a major

BYLINE: Augie Frost, Staff Writer

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 07

LENGTH: 323 words


Choosing a major doesn't necessarily mean choosing a career, but it is a
decision all college students need to make.

With help from advisement sessions, aptitude tests and degree information,
students are put in the right position to be successful.

Career advisers at Oklahoma State University and Oklahoma City University use
aptitude tests such as Discover -- created by the same company that does the ACT
-- to assess the strengths of students and match them with degree programs.

"It's a pretty neat tool," said Lynette Martin, director of Career Services at
OCU. "Once we get them through assessments, then I work with the student on
finding their dream job."

Joni Hays, Resource Center coordinator at OSU, said the next step, perhaps the
most crucial, is sitting down with students and asking them what they want to
do.

"We used to see (students) graduating and asking, 'What am I going to do now?'"
Hays said. "We want them to think about that before picking a major. We want
them to do as much research as possible so they know what they are getting
themselves into when they decide on a major."

David Blair, 18, is a freshman in the University of Oklahoma's University
College. The college gives similar advisement possibilities and access to degree
information.

The advisers "were really helpful," he said of choosing to study political
science.

Blair will start his degree in the spring. He said the college gives students
all the time they need to figure out what they want to do before declaring a
major.

Martin reminds students that a college major isn't a lifelong commitment.

"Just because you get a degree in criminal justice doesn't mean you are going to
do that forever," she said.

Criminal justice, Hays said, is one of the more popular degrees at OSU.

The National Association of Colleges and Employers list of top jobs for 2005
graduates includes private accounting, management training, teaching, consulting
and sales.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COLLEGE BOUND Special Section

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2005 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday
                                 Delhi Edition

Choose course over college

BYLINE: Anandita Singh Bhada

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 491 words


New Delhi: Be it the classic dilemma of choosing between the best-reputed
college and one's favourite course or doubts over which course one should go
for, there was an answer to every question at The Times of India's Mission
Admission seminar. Aspirants got to know that there's more to choose from than
traditional careers and that there's a need to think beyond Delhi University .

Candidates also got a chance to meet students from different campuses who shared
their experiences at Gyaan Zone, introduced for the first time at Monday's
seminar. The two-day seminar will conclude on Tuesday .

Speakers from different colleges like SRCC and Stephen's as well as experts
inter

acted with students and parents, responding to queries and clarifying doubts.
Tuesday will include sessions on overseas education and careers in design.

Speakers told students how to go about choosing a course and career options
available in it. They urged them to take a seat in the first college available.
With every list, the student will find he has more options, even the freedom to
switch colleges.

When it came to choosing

between a course and a college, the emphasis was firmly on the first. Malay
Neerav, joint dean, Students' Welfare, said: "It doesn't make a difference which
college you get your undergraduate degree from but the course you do will
matter. Always follow your interest and pursue what you like. College will get
over in three years but the course you do will stay with you forever." It's also
better to get a general undergraduate degree than go for a programme that
restricts your options, like geology or law, if one's unsure where one's heart
lies.

Gyaan Zone was a panel of

students from different universities--DU, BML Munjal University , Maharishi
Dayanand University and SGT. Col

lege aspirants approached them with ECA and sports quota queries. The panel also
took college-specific queries.

S K Garg, principal, Dean Dayal Upadhyaya College, said, "If a student has an
interest in more than one course, they should choose the one that has a broader
scope. The possibility of doing post-graduation in that subject is then higher,
since fewer seats are available at the postgraduate level."

Many were doubtful about how to calculate the best-offour and some asked if they
can apply for bachelors in a subject they did not study in Class XII. Some
worried that,

if they already took admission in a college and found that they met the cutoff
for the same subject at a more reputable college at a later stage, they would
not be able to withdraw and re-apply on time. These doubts continued to linger
even after being addressed in Open Day sessions at DU.

For the anxious and the confused, Parveen Malhotra, a career counsellor, had the
final word. She said, "There are so many career options available on today's
date that one need not worry about what to do in life. There are no safe
careers. One will do well in life if they follow their interest."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 5, 2016 Tuesday

Choosing Wisely

LENGTH: 219  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists has issued the
following news release:



 In February 2013, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists
released its list of "Five Things Physicians and Patients Should Question" in
obstetrics-gynecology as part of the Choosing Wisely® campaign, led by the
American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) Foundation. The College's list
includes five evidence-based recommendations that can support ob-gyns and their
patients in making wise choices about their care. The list of five tests or
procedures released by the College as part of the Choosing Wisely® include the
following:





     Don't schedule elective, non-medically indicated inductions of labor or
cesarean deliveries before 39 weeks 0 days gestational age

     Don't schedule elective, non-medically indicated inductions of labor
between 39 weeks 0 days and 41 weeks 0 days unless the cervix is deemed
favorable

     Don't perform routine annual cervical cytology (Pap tests) in women 30 to
65 years of age

     Don't treat patients who have mild dysplasia of less than two years in
duration

     Don't screen for ovarian cancer in asymptomatic women at average risk





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 28, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

When Neither A Nor B Looks Good

BYLINE: By ALEX MINDLIN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DRILLING DOWN; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 155 words


A study in The Journal of Consumer Research finds that people have more trouble
choosing between bad alternatives than good ones. In one experiment, college
students were asked to choose between a car with a poor warranty and one without
air-conditioning. They took 26 percent longer to choose than students who were
asked to pick between a car with good financing and one with a powerful engine.

Conversely, subjects who were asked to reject a car had an easier time selecting
between the flawed cars than those who were choosing between two good cars.

Partha Krishnamurthy, an associate professor of marketing at the University of
Houston and one of the study's authors, drew a parallel to voters in a nasty
political race. ''People have a difficult time making a choice when they are
faced with negative information,'' he said, meaning that injecting negativity
into a campaign can reduce the turnout of the uncommitted voter.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO GRAPHIC: 50.37 Average number of seconds spent choosing among
attractive alternatives 63.60  Average time spent choosing among unattractive
alternatives

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                              June 16, 2008 Monday

Healthy minds...

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 283 words


Torquay Community College students have turned healthy snacks into prizes in a
new loyalty points scheme.

Students at the school, which last year was awarded a Healthy Schools Award, has
launched a new 'Loyalty Points Scheme' to encourage and reward students for
choosing healthier options at break and lunch time.

When students select their meals they place their finger on a biometric reader,
with the Easytrace computer system awarding the loyalty points to the students'
account.

Those students with the highest number of points at the end of term are awarded
healthy prizes. This year, the student leadership team chose mountain bikes as
prizes for students in years 7 to 9, and gym membership to students in years 10
and 11.

Year 7 student Alex Cliff said: "We think it is a really good idea. It
encourages students to eat healthy food and it's nice to get a reward. There has
been a lot of competition between friends."

Year 11 student Chris Pritchard said: "We think loyalty points are a good idea.
It's an incentive to encourage good health, but lets people make their own
choices without forcing the issue on you. They are good prizes as well, so
students appreciate the importance of the scheme and now give more thought into
what they are choosing to eat."

Easytrace, who supply the biometric readers to the college, have supported the
innovative scheme, choosing to sponsor the mountain bikes to students for their
efforts, with Halfords sponsoring the cycle helmets.

Torquay Community College principal, Gill Battye, said: "We are all delighted at
the college with how the student leadership team has led this scheme, and the
increased uptake of healthy food options chosen by the students."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                              June 16, 2008 Monday

Healthy minds...

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 283 words


Torquay Community College students have turned healthy snacks into prizes in a
new loyalty points scheme.

Students at the school, which last year was awarded a Healthy Schools Award, has
launched a new 'Loyalty Points Scheme' to encourage and reward students for
choosing healthier options at break and lunch time.

When students select their meals they place their finger on a biometric reader,
with the Easytrace computer system awarding the loyalty points to the students'
account.

Those students with the highest number of points at the end of term are awarded
healthy prizes. This year, the student leadership team chose mountain bikes as
prizes for students in years 7 to 9, and gym membership to students in years 10
and 11.

Year 7 student Alex Cliff said: "We think it is a really good idea. It
encourages students to eat healthy food and it's nice to get a reward. There has
been a lot of competition between friends."

Year 11 student Chris Pritchard said: "We think loyalty points are a good idea.
It's an incentive to encourage good health, but lets people make their own
choices without forcing the issue on you. They are good prizes as well, so
students appreciate the importance of the scheme and now give more thought into
what they are choosing to eat."

Easytrace, who supply the biometric readers to the college, have supported the
innovative scheme, choosing to sponsor the mountain bikes to students for their
efforts, with Halfords sponsoring the cycle helmets.

Torquay Community College principal, Gill Battye, said: "We are all delighted at
the college with how the student leadership team has led this scheme, and the
increased uptake of healthy food options chosen by the students."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 75


                         Copyright 2008 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           October 13, 2010 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

WHEN CHOOSING MAJOR, PICK ONE THAT YOU ENJOY;
What I Wish I Knew Before I Started College

BYLINE: Dana Vogel, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E-2

LENGTH: 731 words


As a high school senior, I was pretty clueless about choosing a college major.

Because I never had a niche like my friends who were "English people" or "math
people," I thought I could pick any major.

I figured as long as I studied something practical, I'd cruise into a successful
career. I decided to pursue chemical engineering because such graduates have
some of the highest starting salaries and I liked chemistry.

Unfortunately, halfway through my sophomore year at the University of
Pennsylvania, I realized that I had made a big mistake.

After switching my major to political science, I've realized there's a ton of
misconceptions being spread through high schools about college majors by
everyone from guidance counselors to friends with older siblings. If I had known
then what I know now as a senior, I could have saved myself a lot of trouble.

One thing I really wish I had known is, just because you like a subject in high
school doesn't mean you should major in it in college. I had liked chemistry in
high school, but later realized that perhaps having a great teacher and
enthusiastic classmates had contributed to my perception of chemistry more than
the subject matter had.

Because classes are so different in college, you should consider classes you may
not have liked in high school as well -- you might be surprised.

I also wish I had known not to base my decision about a major on one or two
introductory classes. The myth that taking introductory classes is the best way
to choose a major is one of the biggest misconceptions about college majors.

While exploring my post-engineering options, I took an introductory-level
communication class and hated it.

Later, I was told by friends majoring in communication that the intro classes
are nothing like the middle- and upper-level classes and that I probably would
have liked the major once I got through the initial requirements.

A better idea would have been talking to an adviser or upperclassman in that
major, or sitting in on a few upper-level classes.

Something else I wish I had known is choosing a major doesn't have to mean
giving up another major. Outside of engineering and business, it is surprisingly
easy to double major, and it's even easier to tack a minor onto your major.

At the University of Pennsylvania, a degree in political science requires a
total of 32 classes, 12 of which must be political science classes. That leaves
room for 20 classes outside of political science that can be used to obtain a
second major.

Because of my switch, I won't be able to complete a double major, but I am
pursuing an English minor -- with just six classes.

I also wish I had known there is difference between choosing a major and
choosing a career. It is completely possible to select a major and pursue a
totally different career later. Knowing this can take a lot of pressure off.

I'm a political science major, but I'm looking forward to a career in
journalism. A lot of successful people have gone on to careers unrelated to
their majors

Former U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno was a chemistry major, and singer Art
Garfunkel has a master's degree in mathematics, for example.

Another worry many students have is how their majors will affect their chances
of gaining acceptance to graduate school.

Like many of my peers, I had believed that certain majors were more or less
required for admission to certain graduate programs, until I met an economics
major who was applying to medical school.

I learned that you really can't go wrong, as long as you fit the required
classes into your schedule and take any required standardized tests.

The best decision I made the first time around was choosing a university where I
would have a lot of options. This is the most critical advice I have for the
undecided crowd.

In the back of my mind, I knew I was on the fence about engineering, which is
why I chose Penn over universities that emphasized engineering more. If I had
chosen a less flexible school, I might have had to transfer to a different
university to major in political science. At Penn, I just had to take three
summer classes.

The most important and over-arching lesson I've learned is to choose a major you
enjoy. College-bound students should stop worrying about grad schools and
careers and what everyone thinks of their majors because, in the end, people are
much more likely to succeed if they love their majors.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDUCATION PLANNING GUIDE: What I Wish I Knew Before I Started College /
Dana Vogel, who was a summer intern at the Post-Gazette, is a senior at the
University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, majoring in political science and
minoring in English. She can be reached at localnews@post-gazette.com /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dana Vogel

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              57 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             June 12, 2010 Saturday

Guest View: How to get your child into the right college

BYLINE: By Robert Pagliarini

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 688 words


Now that high school graduation is upon us, the focus shifts to college.

There are several new and useful resources you should take advantage of that can
help kids get into the right school and give them the tools they need to have a
successful college experience.

How long would you evaluate a potential $200,000 investment into something that
won't start to pay dividends for years or even decades? How many hours and how
much research would you commit before writing that check? Months, most likely.

But most people invest more time watching an episode of "Dancing With the Stars"
than they do planning for college - so says a recent study conducted by the
National Association for College Admissions Counseling. Its research revealed
that the average high school counselor spends just 38 minutes a year on each
student's search for the right college.

The consequences are devastating. About one in three students who enter college
drop out within the first year.

To avoid becoming a part of this statistic, spend some of the other eight hours
helping your child address these three big issues:

PAYING FOR COLLEGE - The rising cost of education can sometimes exceed college
-fund savings. Fortunately, the FAFSA is a government resource that can help
provide financial aid.

By filing your FAFSA, you are eligible to receive federal grants, loans and
other forms of funding to make the rising cost of education affordable.

If you find there are still remaining costs after filing your FAFSA, private
student loans are another resource to explore.

To cut costs, consider starting at a local two-year community college and then
transferring to a more prestigious university.

CHOOSING A MAJOR - Before choosing a school, help your child examine her
strengths and interests to aid in discovering potential majors. The Princeton
Review offers a push in the right direction with its 5-minute career quiz (
www.princetonreview.com/careers.aspx ). The quiz offers potential career choices
based on interests, preferences and ideal work environments.

After taking the quiz, students should invest time researching careers that
spark their interest. This can help narrow down the overwhelming task of
choosing a major. If they've done the research but are still stumped, don't
worry.

They can always enter college as an "undeclared" and use their first two years
for general education. This will give them more time to discover their personal
strengths and determine a future career path.

CHOOSING THE RIGHT SCHOOL - Once they've chosen a major, finding the right
school will help maximize their college experience. Start by helping them
prioritize their personal preferences.

Are they willing to relocate? Would they prefer a larger university?
Collegeboard ( www.collegeboard.com ) is an excellent resource where students
can conduct a specialized search to discover potential colleges based on their
major and personal interests. Once you've helped them narrow it down to a few
schools, don't be afraid to apply to several.

If they get accepted into multiple schools, encourage them to visit the schools
to see how they fit in. Campus tours are a great way to discover firsthand both
the scholastic and social environment.

The Internet makes research a whole lot easier, but there are also offline
resources. If you want more personal guidance, consider Superfutures (
www.superfutures.org ), a company that offers classes and coaches who help
students gain acceptance into college, survive through graduation, and attain
success in the professional workforce.

According to Superfutures founder Jennifer Openshaw, "Even good students don't
know what they don't know, and should know, about getting into good colleges,
having the tools to succeed and ultimately reaching their dreams."

Can you imagine if kids had 38 minutes of guidance each day, week or even
month?! Don't make the mistake of diving blindly into higher education.

Spend a few of the other eight hours doing your homework on this huge
investment.

Robert Pagliarini is a CBS MoneyWatch columnist and the author of "The Other 8
Hours: Maximize Your Free Time to Create New Wealth & Purpose."

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   West Central Tribune (Willmar, Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 19, 2009 Saturday

Local lawyer volunteers advice on college admissions

BYLINE: LindaVanderwerf, West Central Tribune, Willmar, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 778 words


Sep. 19--WILLMAR -- A series of meetings about choosing and applying to colleges
will begin Monday in Willmar.

Todd Johnson will speak about applying to college from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. Monday
at the second floor meeting room at the Willmar Public Library. The series of
meetings is free and open to the public.

Johnson is a Willmar lawyer who also has a college admissions consulting
business. He volunteers his services to students in the Willmar area and
provides the series and a spring college fair free of charge.

The first meeting about applying to college is geared to high school seniors and
their parents, but the series includes meetings to provide information to
freshmen, sophomores and juniors, too.

Johnson has expanded the series over past years. He has added more information
about students considering attending selective colleges and will provide some
presentations twice to make them available to more people.

Information about college applications and essays has been added.

"Before, I really didn't discuss the application," he said.

Application essays are very important, "and most kids don't have a clue about
how to write a college essay," he said. The essay should have a different style
from the writing normally done in school and should tell a college something
about the person submitting it, he added.

Johnson said he often recommends that students still deciding about a college
attend the National College Fair Sept. 30 and Oct. 1 at the Minneapolis
Convention Center.

"That's a great way for students to see lots of schools," he said. However, with
more than 400 schools represented, it's a good idea to go there with some type
of plan.

People who would like advice about the fair may contact him, Johnson said. His
cell phone number is 320-262-9955. Information about the fair is available at
www.nationalcollegefairs.org.

Johnson may also be reached at todd@collegeadmissionspartners.com

This is a list of the college admissions meetings scheduled through April:

Sept. 21 -- "Applying to College," for seniors. It includes the application
process, when to apply, which application to use and how to get the best
recommendation. Also tips on writing college application essays.

Sept. 28 -- "I Haven't Started Yet: Finding the Right College Fast," for
seniors. Topics are finding the right college, basic financial aid, which tests
to take, applications.

Oct. 5 -- "Selective College Admissions," for freshmen to juniors. Topics
include how hard it is to get into a selective college, importance of early
planning, what activities and classes selective colleges like to see.

Oct. 19 -- "Finding the Right College," for sophomores and juniors. A
presentation about when to start the search for a college, things to consider in
choosing a college and the 25 most common mistakes in choosing a college.

Jan. 11, 2010 -- "The FAFSA: Everything You Need to Know," for seniors. A review
of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid and answers to audience
questions.

Feb. 8, 2010 -- "Finding the Right College," for sophomores and juniors. A
repeat of the Oct. 19 presentation.

Feb. 15, 2010 -- "ACT/SAT: What You Need to Know about the Tests," for
sophomores and juniors. Topics include test preparation, which test to take,
which test score to send and the best test prep. Also addresses whether students
need to take the tests.

March 8, 2010 -- "Financial Aid and Scholarships," for sophomores and juniors. A
preparatory session about how financial aid works, where to find scholarships,
what to ask colleges about financial aid. Also a talk about how choosing the
right college can save thousands of dollars.

April 2010 -- "Willmar Annual College Fair," date to be announced later. For
freshmen to juniors, the college fair from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Willmar Senior
High cafeteria will feature 20 or more colleges from around Minnesota and
surrounding states. Johnson will also do a financial aid presentation similar to
the March 8 presentation.

April 12, 2010 -- "What Parents of Freshmen and Sophomores Need to Know about
College." Includes advice about what classes to take, activities in and out of
school, understanding basic financial aid. Participants will receive a timeline
for college admissions covering all four years.

To see more of the West Central Tribune, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.wctrib.com. Copyright (c) 2009, West Central Tribune, Willmar, Minn.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090919-YM-Local-lawyer-volunteers-advice-on-college-admissions-0919

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YM


                                 Copyright 2009


                              59 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 2, 2014 Saturday

On the Money: Families just say 'no' to expensive colleges

BYLINE: By Gail MarksJarvis

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 662 words


The practice of choosing the college you adore, and paying whatever it takes to
go there, is eroding as more families turn down schools they consider too
pricey.

Yet, while watching costs, 98 percent of students and their parents consider
paying for college worth the expense, according to a national study done by
Ipsos Public Affairs for Sallie Mae.

To cut costs, 69 percent of families are choosing in-state colleges, and 54
percent of students are living with parents or relatives to keep spending on
college down, according to the study.

Two-thirds of families say they have tossed out some colleges based on cost,
according to the yearly "How America Pays for College" survey.

In 2009, in the midst of the recession, only 56 percent of families said they
were dismissing certain colleges because they were too pricey.

Price sensitivity is clearly building, perhaps as college prices keep rising but
also because many studies show graduates are having trouble building strong
financial lives because of excessive student debt and lackluster pay.

To economize, families are watching their costs by choosing colleges within
commuting distance of home or a relative's home.

Students are accelerating course work and favoring two-year public colleges more
than the past.

Families reported the highest enrollment in two-year public colleges since the
survey began in 2008.

About 34 percent of families were choosing two-year institutions, versus 30
percent the previous year. Four-year college enrollment declined from 46 percent
last year to 41 percent in 2014.

Families reported spending $11,012 a year, on average, for the two-year option,
compared with $21,072 for the four-year college.

Most parents and students look at paying for college as a shared responsibility.

Parent income and savings, on average, paid 30 percent of the cost of college
this year, while students paid 12 percent. About 31 percent of parents didn't
contribute anything. Only one-fifth of parents were able to cover the entire
expense.

A small minority of parents -- 11 percent -- consider paying for college
entirely their responsibility.

But the attitude differs among high-income families, where 48 percent said
parents are primarily responsible. Among all families, 1 in 5 say the student
should bear the full responsibility.

When students borrow, most parents do not intend to help pay off the loans.
Fewer than one-third of parents say they will contribute to loan payments.

The survey found the average spending on college this past academic year was
$20,882, consistent with the last three years but down from the 2010 peak of
$24,097.

Parents have substantially cut the portion they've been paying out of pocket. In
2010, out of pocket hit a high of 37percent. Last year, it was 27 percent.

Even though 21 percent of parents used only out-of-pocket funds to pay, most
consider financial aid essential.

About 81 percent of families filed the FAFSA, a government form that is the
first step for applying for getting grants, scholarships and government student
loans.

Sixty-six percent were able to win grants or scholarships, or free money
provided by colleges or philanthropic groups.

Those grants and scholarships covered about 31 percent of the cost of college.
Borrowed money used to pay for college dropped to the lowest level in five
years, or an average of $4,610 for the year by parents and students.

Loans paid for 22 percent of college costs, a decline from the previous year,
when borrowed funds paid 27 percent. Most loans were taken by students.
Middle-income families relied on borrowing more than high- or low-income
families. Their loans covered 31 percent of costs.

Half of students and 1 in 5 parents increased their work hours to help make
college more affordable.

But the recent trend has been for students to devote more of their income and
savings to college. That was the case in 56 percent of families, compared with
45 percent in 2010.

Contact Gail MarksJarvis at gmarksjarvis@tribune.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gail MarksJarvis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                 The Times West Virginian (Fairmont, Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 12, 2009 Saturday

BRIEF: Pierpont CandTC selection process advances: Upcoming focus groups are a
part of ongoing search for new president

BYLINE: Katie Wilson, The Times West Virginian, Fairmont

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 185 words


Dec. 12--FAIRMONT -- The procedure for choosing a new president for Pierpont
Community and Technical College is moving along.

Focus groups will be held this week so the campus community can share their
thoughts on the qualities and characteristics the new president should have.
That will also give the search firm and search committee an idea of how the
college views itself. All of those things are important to know when choosing a
president who will fit with the college's needs both now and in the future.

"We want to find the best candidate who fits the needs of the campus community,"
said Jennifer Weist, assistant vice president for administration and
presidential search liaison.

To see more of The Times West Virginian or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.timeswv.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, The Times West Virginian, Fairmont
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20091212-TF-BRF-Pierpont-C-TC-selection-process-advances-1212

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TF


                                 Copyright 2009


                              61 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 24, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Study: Colleges shouldn't fret over hands-on parents;
Freshmen like the involvement

BYLINE: Mary Beth Marklein

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 8D

LENGTH: 789 words


More bad news for college officials who say too many parents are micromanaging
their children's lives: Most college-bound kids seem to welcome the involvement.

About three-quarters of this year's college freshmen reported that their parents
were involved the "right amount" in a variety of activities related to choosing
and enrolling in college, a survey released today says.  The rest, meanwhile,
were more likely to say their parents were involved too little than too much.

The survey, completed last fall by more than 272,000 entering freshmen on 356
four-year campuses nationwide, did not ask students to quantify the level of
their parents' involvement. Nor did it measure whether that level has increased.

But college administrators have been wringing their hands in recent years over
what to do about "helicopter parents," so dubbed because they hover over their
children's lives. Last week, EducationDynamics, a company that works with
colleges to retain students, noted a "dramatic increase" in helicopter parenting
at the start of the second semester. "Parents are feeling hopeless, distraught,
worried and frustrated, stemming from an apparent loss of control," says Chrissy
Coley, who recently left her position as assistant vice provost at the
University of South Carolina to join EducationDynamics.

The concern, college officials argue, is that if parents always intervene on
their child's behalf, students will never learn to make decisions or solve
problems for themselves.

Those concerns prompted researchers at UCLA's Higher Education Research
Institute, which conducted the survey, to wonder how students felt.

"For the most part, (they) think that level (of parental involvement) is right
on," says survey director John Pryor.

Still, researchers found significant differences among  students of different
racial backgrounds.

More than 43% of Latinos, for example, said their parents were involved too
little in choosing college courses, compared with 37% of Asian students, 33% of
black students, 29% of American Indian students and 19% of white students.

Overall, the results complement other research.

A report in November by the National Survey of Student Engagement found that
college students who reported high levels of contact with their parents or
guardian, and whose parents frequently intervened on their behalf, were more
satisfied with their education and reported deeper learning activities  than
students with less-involved parents. This  and other studies suggest that
colleges may need to tread lightly.

"In many ways it's good that students want to stay in close contact with their
parents, that they respect their parents' opinions," Coley says. But, she says,
once a student enters college, "that relationship needs to loosen up." For
colleges, she says, the question is how to optimize good parent-student
relations without hurting students as they grow into independent adults.

Some, though, suspect that the image of overly intrusive parents is overblown.

Says James Boyle, president of College Parents of America,  based in Arlington,
Va.: "The vast majority of parents just (want to be) better consumers and
support their child's education."

---

Big man on campus: The Internet

UCLA's annual survey has been plumbing shifting attitudes of college freshmen
for more than 40 years. Among the findings this year by the Higher Education
Research Institute:

*Though 75.9% said they frequently use the Internet for research,  just 35% said
they frequently evaluate the quality or reliability of the information they
receive, and fewer (21.2%) said they frequently look up scientific research
articles and resources.

*44% said they frequently read news sites, and 34.2% said they frequently read
blogs.

*86.3% reported spending at least some time each week on social networking sites
such as Facebook and MySpace. But they were more likely to spend some time each
week watching TV, studying or doing homework, exercising or doing sports.

*Students spent more time socializing with friends in live settings than online:
18.9% said they spent six or more hours a week on social networking sites, while
73.4% said they spent six hours or more socializing with friends.

How much hovering?

Percentage of entering college freshmen who say their parents are involved  the
"right amount," "too much" or "too little":

Right amount   Too much   Too little

Decision to go to college 84.0%   10.3%  5.7%

Application(s) to college 74.2%  10.7%  15.1%

Decision to go to this college 80.5%  9.5%  10.0%

Dealings with college officials 77.5%  5.8% 16.7%

Choosing college courses 72.5%  3.5% 24.0%

Choosing college activities 73.7%  3.8% 22.5 %

Source: Cooperative Institutional Research Program at the Higher Education
Research Institute, UCLA

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDUCATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 5, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Choosing a College Major: For Love or for the Money?

BYLINE: By DAVID KOEPPEL

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1145 words


Like countless other college students, Susannah Lloyd-Jones struggled with her
choice of major. Finally, in her junior year at Loyola University in Chicago,
she picked sociology, a decision that ''opened my mind and introduced me to
other cultures, '' she said. More than two years after graduation, though, Ms.
Lloyd-Jones, now a 24-year-old paralegal from Maplewood, N.J., occasionally
wonders if she made the right decision. ''It might have been easier if I had
been a business major,'' she said, ''because that's where the money is.''

Ms. Lloyd-Jones says if she had it to do over, she would probably still study
sociology but take more business classes and work some internships. She said
students feel tremendous pressure over the choice of a major, which could be an
important career decision, when many are just beginning to understand
themselves.

Many students and career counselors say the pressure to choose the ''right''
major is more intense than ever because of factors like rising tuition costs and
the uncertain economy. Parents and students today often consider college more an
investment than a time of academic and personal exploration. Some students say
they are education consumers seeking the best return on that investment, which
is often financed with a student loan.

The annual cost of a four-year public college averages $11,354, a 7.8 increase
from 2003-4, according to the College Board; a four-year private college
averages $27,516, a 5.6 percent increase.

In their recently published ''College Majors Handbook With Real Career Paths and
Payoffs'' (Jist Publishing), three economists from Northeastern University in
Boston try to quantify just how much students with a variety of majors can
expect to earn in their careers. The authors concluded that choosing a major was
more crucial to future financial success than the college attended.

One of the authors, Paul E. Harrington, an economist and associate director at
the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern, said that, on average,
humanities and education majors fared far worse financially than students in
business or engineering.

In 2002, workers with degrees in chemical engineering and accounting were on the
high end, earning an average of $75,579 and $63,486, respectively. On the low
end, philosophy majors made an average of $42,865 and elementary education
graduates $38,746.

Mr. Harrington said the research was not intended to dissuade sociology majors
from following their passions. Instead, he hopes the information will help
students prepare carefully when choosing a major. He recommends that students
contemplating majors in the liberal arts or humanities also take some
business-oriented courses. A philosophy major, Mr. Harrington said, should
probably get some real-world internship experience.

''The world is a more unforgiving place than it used to be, and investment costs
are too high for four years of drift,'' he said. ''If a student doesn't take the
right sequence of math courses in high school, they can lose out on the best
jobs.''

But some people worry that choosing a career based primarily on economic factors
can lead students to make poor choices. Jieun Chai, a 2000 Stanford University
graduate, for instance, deeply regrets not majoring in Asian languages.

''I'm so angry at myself for giving in to peer pressure, parental pressure and
societal pressure,'' Ms. Chai wrote on her Web journal. ''Why are you taking
only language classes? Think about your career in consulting, engineering,
medicine or law.''

Alysha Cryer, who was Ms. Lloyd-Jones's roommate at Loyola, withstood pressure
from classmates and family members who urged her to attend law school or study
business.

Ms. Cryer said that sticking with sociology was the most satisfying, if not
financially rewarding, decision she could have made.

After graduating in 2002, she took a public relations and marketing job at a
nonprofit organization in Chicago called Little Brothers, a group that matches
volunteers with elderly clients. Her starting salary was $24,000, barely enough
to survive in Chicago. In 2003, she moved to Manhattan to work for Catalyst, a
nonprofit research and advisory organization. ''With education so expensive,
many in my generation are mired in debt,'' Ms. Cryer said. ''Some people choose
to sacrifice personal happiness to make money.''

Peter Vogt, a career counselor in Minneapolis and the moderator on the Career
Planning for College Students message board at Monster.com, a Web site for job
seekers, says many of his 20-something clients think they have squandered their
college years on the wrong studies.

''They think they only have one chance and that they've blown it,'' Mr. Vogt
said. '''I should have picked X instead of Y. I should have taken the unpaid
internship instead of working at T.G.I. Friday's to pay for tuition.'''

He tells graduates they should think of themselves not as psychology or
sociology majors, but as workers with marketable skills like research, writing
and communications.

A danger in the Northeastern economists' research, he said, is that it adds to
the ''mythology'' that only dollar figures are important in choosing a field of
study, and it does not account for differences in personality, aptitude,
interest and values. Mr. Vogt considers the pressures facing current students
far greater than those of generations past.

Trudy Steinfeld, director of career services at New York University, tells
students that majors should be less about preparing for one career and more
about preparing for many options, and probably several careers, over a lifetime.
She agrees with the Northeastern data showing that finance, accounting and
technology degrees will lead to higher salaries. But she says she also sees
liberal arts majors who become equally successful.

''College should be about stretching yourself and discovering who you are and
what you want,'' Ms. Steinfeld said. ''Schools should not become factories.
There are hundreds of majors out there, and it's almost always a mistake to base
the decision on money alone.''

Ms. Steinfeld agrees, though, that students can run into overwhelming pressure
from many sources.

Parents paying even a portion of college costs may wonder if a major in
philosophy will pay the bills. And if their children change majors, it could
extend college from 8 semesters to 9 or 10, at an additional cost.

Nevertheless, Priscilla Molina, 18, an N.Y.U. sophomore, is taking her time
choosing a major. Many of her friends are pursuing business careers, but that,
she said, will not affect her decision. She is fascinated by international
relations and is leaning toward anthropology.

''I want to pick a path that I'm interested in, one that opens my mind,'' she
said. ''You're only in college once. I don't want to regret why I didn't major
in something I enjoy.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Susannah Lloyd-Jones graduated from Loyola University with a
sociology degree, but says that majoring in business might have been a better
choice for making money. (Photo by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 12, 2016 Tuesday
                                 Every Edition

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. E03

LENGTH: 142 words

Radiology groups' campaigns came first

"Should you worry about the radiation from CT scans?" [Jan. 5] mentions a number
of efforts by physician groups - including Image Wisely, Image Gently and
Choosing Wisely - aimed at reducing unnecessary imaging tests.

Image Wisely and Image Gently are distinct efforts from Choosing Wisely and are
led by the American College of Radiology and other radiology groups. Both
radiology campaigns provided inspiration for, and predate, Choosing Wisely.
Choosing Wisely was created by the ABIM Foundation, which promotes medical
professionalism, in partnership with Consumer Reports and leading medical
specialty societies. Its goal is to encourage conversations about avoiding
unnecessary care. More information can be found at choosingwisely.org.

Daniel Wolfson, Executive Vice President, ABIM Foundation, Philadelphia

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  The Union-Recorder (Milledgeville, Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 17, 2009 Tuesday

Theater students choose to side with Boys & Girls Club

BYLINE: Daniel McDonald, The Union-Recorder, Milledgeville, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 680 words


Mar. 17--Saturday afternoon, Georgia College & State University theater students
turned the center of the Milledgeville Mall into a performance area.

Performing on the sparsest of sets, with minimal costuming and utilizing all of
the powers of projection to be heard above the constant chatter of Saturday
shoppers, Georgia College students put on "Choosing Sides for Basketball," a
one-act play chronicling the story of four young children waiting to be picked
for a game of basketball.

"This is my first experience of this sort," "Choosing Sides" Director Dottie
Pratt said about bringing a play to audience members in the middle of a mall.
"We weren't sure what to expect. You've got to be really loud so that the
audience will be able to hear over the crowd."

And on a somewhat surprising note for the weekend amid the economic downturn,
the crowd was there.

After two performances in the center of the mall, Pratt said she was pleased
with the turnout. Both shows sat moderate crowds with plenty of shoppers
stopping momentarily to see what all the commotion was about.

Pratt said earlier performances of "Choosing Sides" at Midway Elementary
elicited hugs and high fives from the students in the audience.

But in Saturday's performances at the Milledgeville Mall, Pratt and her
performers hoped for more than just positive reactions, they were hoping
audience members would reach deep in their pockets to contribute to a good
cause.

Pratt and her cast collected money for Georgia College Marketing Professor Renee
Fontenot and her bid to kiss a pig in the local Boys & Girls Club's annual "Kiss
a Pig" contest.

"For the Boys & Girls Club, this is a critical year because donations are down
but needs are up," Fontenot said.

Fontenot has been encouraging students to fund her pig courting competition by
contributing their pocket change for the cause.

"If I win, the Friday before spring break, I will have [the pig kissing] as a
public event on campus," she said. "It will be a bittersweet victory. I'll have
to figure out the proper courtship technique -- do you make eye contact with a
pig before kissing it?"

By performing "Choosing Sides" to benefit the Boys & Girls Club, Georgia College
students are giving to a good cause, but they are also learning lessons about
being good citizens.

"Our mission in the program is to do community outreach and civic engagement,"
Georgia College & State University Theater Department Chair Karen Berman said.

Saturday's three performances at the Milledgeville Mall were the continuation of
a partnership between the Theater Department and the Boys & Girls Club that will
bring arts to the community while benefiting the club.

"In this economy, we are trying to partner with everyone we can to make a buck
and keep the club doors open," Boys & Girls Club Executive Director Paul Bernard
said.

Boys & Girls Club board member Dee Sams inadvertently conceived the idea of
partnering with the Georgia College Theater Department when talking about the
club's needs to Berman.

"I heard from Dr. Sams that the Boys & Girls Club is hurting this year so I
said: 'Dee we can raise money through a play,'" Berman said.

And Fontenot agrees.

"It makes sense to put our efforts together whenever we can," she said. "It also
teaches our students about being better citizens."

But all altruistic motives aside, on this Saturday there was only one
partnership Dottie Pratt was focused on: the partnership between the performers
and audience members.

"Personally, I have an addiction to seeing an audience respond," she said about
watching her performers from a seat in the audience. It is really a thrill to
experience a performance with them [the audience]."

To see more of The Union-Recorder or to subscribe, go to
http://www.unionrecorder.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, The Union-Recorder,
Milledgeville, Ga. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090317-UG-Theater-students-choose-to-side-with-Boys-Girls-Club-0317

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UG


                                 Copyright 2009


                              65 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                          December 17, 2008 Wednesday

Freshmen showing buyers' remorse

BYLINE: Special to the ALT

SECTION: C; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 546 words


According to a poll conducted by CollegeClickTV.com - an online resource
designed to help high school students and their parents make informed decisions
about choosing the right school, using resources vital to the college search
process - there's a frown on the face of 56 percent of this year's freshman
class as they return home for the holiday break. Of the 56 percent of freshmen
surveyed who were disappointed with their college choice, 11 percent said that
it was not what they expected. While some seemingly trivial issues, like the
weather (2 percent) and missing their boyfriend or girlfriend (3 percent), were
cited as a part of the problem, 19 percent of respondents said they spent too
much time out at night and did not get enough sleep. Some results were
surprising: 6 percent of those polled mentioned having difficulty managing their
time, with 2 percent even chiming in that they had "no nagging parent" telling
them what to do and when to do it.

While colleges across the country wrestle with the age-old issue of keeping
their freshmen happy, they might want to consider that colleges with a winning
football team had significantly happier students. A whopping 81 percent of those
who reported liking their school attended a college with a winning football
team, and their top three reasons for being cheerful were "camaraderie" (No. 1),
"tailgating" and "pep rallies." Glenn Pere, the Founder and CEO of
CollegeClickTV.com, says, "Considering the expense of education today, I think
it's a real shame that every student in college isn't at a place they love. But
the results of this survey are not a huge surprise to me, given that the only
resources many have available to them are a one-time cross-country campus tour
and catalogues about what the different schools offer." Pere notes that he has
more friends than not who say, "College was the best four years of my life," and
he hopes that future generations of graduates will be able to say that, too. He
adds, "To address this need for information, we created CollegeClickTV.com as a
destination that would cost nothing for college-bound students and their
parents, and we certainly hope that when we conduct this research again next
year, our site will have played some small role in reversing those statistics."
Another interesting poll result was that 28 percent of freshmen surveyed said
that their peers at college were not what they were expecting. And while a
sobering 68 percent of respondents did say that finances were an issue in
choosing the college or university they attended, with 42 percent working to
make money, what the future might bring to the 40 percent who have a 529 college
savings plan is yet to be seen. CollegeClickTV.com President Eric Yaverbaum
states that "While we know that in today's financial climate, money plays a
bigger role in the decision-making process, it does seem that many of the
freshmen we interviewed for this survey did not do their research before
choosing where they went to school." Yaverbaum, who has just begun the college
search process with his teenage daughter, notes, "I don't think my daughter and
I ever had a more important homework assignment. We definitely are going to do
our research!" For more information visit: www.collegeclicktv.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 9, 2014 Thursday

Study: Eating with overweight people makes you eat more

LENGTH: 306  words

DATELINE: Dallas


The American Heart Association has issued the following news release:

The researchers recommend going into a restaurant with a clear idea of what to
order.

People might not realize how setting affects eating decisions. According to a
new study, eating with an overweight person makes people choose to eat more
unhealthy foods.

Researchers from Cornell University's Food and Brand Lab and the Mayo Medical
Clinic invited 82 college students to eat a lunch consisting of spaghetti and
salad, and they were divided into four groups.

One group was paired with an actress wearing a fat suit and making a healthy
choice by eating more salad than spaghetti, another was paired with the actress
wearing a fat suit and choosing more spaghetti than salad. The third group was
paired with the actress choosing the more healthy meal without the fat suit and
the last was paired with the actress choosing the less healthy meal without the
fat suit.

Participants saw the actress serve herself before serving themselves, and the
results show that no matter what the person wearing the fat suit picked for
their meal, more salad or more spaghetti, 31.6 percent of the participants ate
more pasta. Participants even ate 43.5 percent less salad when the person in the
fat suit ate more salad.

This means many people could be making poor dietary choices based on the people
surrounding them.

"Look up the menu beforehand and select a meal that suits your dietary goals,"
recommends Brian Wansink, co-author of the study, published in the journal
Appetite. "Or, if you're going to a buffet, pre-commit to selecting modest
portions of healthy foods and with that goal in mind, those around you will have
less of a negative influence over what you eat."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Derry News (New Hampshire)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 11, 2012 Wednesday

Pinkerton students get advice from recent graduates

BYLINE: Julie Huss, The Derry News, N.H.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 428 words


Jan. 11--DERRY -- Pinkerton Academy students got a lesson last week to help them
prepare for life after high school.

Juniors and seniors attended College Connection, an event designed to help them
get ready for what lies ahead.

Nine Pinkerton graduates not enrolled in college made up a panel. They offered
information on college life and the important things students should remember
when preparing for higher learning.

From majors in nursing, architecture, finance and information technology,
students shared a wide range of experiences and information. This was the fifth
year for the event.

Pinkerton's guidance staff said student panelists were chosen right before they
graduated last year, in the hopes they could come back after leaving for college
to help younger students in the planning process.

Having mid-year college freshmen on the panel means high school is still fresh
in their minds. They are still relatively new to college and guidance staffers
believe they are the best ones to tell the younger students what to expect.

Leah Tarleton is a freshman at the University of New Hampshire, majoring in
French and international affairs. She applied to five schools before choosing
UNH.

Some other panelists also applied to a lot of colleges; a few applied to only
two.

"I wish I gave myself more options," Suffolk University freshman Samantha Murray
said.

Murray only applied to two schools, choosing Suffolk over UNH for its study
options.

Tarleton said timing is key for applying to schools -- and tackling financial
aid and scholarship applications.

"Starting early and really being organized (is key)," she said. "Know what the
deadlines are."

Nursing student Ryan McAvoy attends Rivier College in Nashua and said choosing
the best school may come down to the institution's reputation and what the
school offers.

"You want to make sure you get the best education you can," McAvoy said.

All panelists agreed Pinkerton prepared them well.

It was all good advice for the day, according to Pinkerton guidance staffer
Ralph Van Nostrand. He told students to listen to what the recent graduates were
saying when it comes to handling college and life away from home.

"There's a lot of very good information and a real purpose for this," Van
Nostrand told students. "(It's up to you) to decide what is the best decision
for you to do."

Pinkerton offers a career center for students needing help with applications,
financial aid or scholarships.

___ (c)2012 The Derry News (Derry, N.H.) Visit The Derry News (Derry, N.H.) at
www.derrynews.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20120111-DZ-Pinkerton-students-get-advice-from-recent-graduates-0111-20120111

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DZ


                         Copyright 2012 The Derry News


                              68 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                          February 26, 2014 Wednesday
                                 Early Edition

Helping college students choose the right major

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. E2

LENGTH: 639 words


Picking a college major is a big step for young students. Though many adults
eventually find themselves working in fields that have little to do with their
college majors, many more spend their entire careers in the same field they
chose to major in way back in their college days.

Choosing a major is a decision that ultimately rests on the shoulders of the
students who must consider a host of factors before committing to a specific
field of study. But parents can still help their children, whether those kids
are already enrolled in college or college-bound, as they make such an important
decision that could very well affect the rest of their lives.

Encourage patience. Today's college students and college-bound youngsters are
living in a world that's significantly different than the one their parents or
even older siblings might have encountered. Global and domestic unemployment
rates remain high, and technology is changing the way many industries conduct
business. But students trying to pick a major should avoid picking one too
quickly. Just because a certain field is experiencing job growth does not mean
that field is ideal for all students. Encourage kids to be patient when choosing
a major so they can find the field that's right for them, and not just the major
they feel will produce the best job prospects.

Suggest a double major. Many of today's students are fully aware of the
difficult job market and the cost of a college education. As a result, such
students want to choose a major they feel will put them in the best position to
land a well-paying job after college. That's a smart strategy, but it's also one
that overlooks the joy of studying a subject you are passionate about. Parents
can simultaneously encourage kids to be smart about their job prospects and
pursue their passions by suggesting a double major. For example, if your child
has a love of art but understands the difficulty in earning a living as an
artist, suggest a double major in art and graphic design. This way he or she has
more career options upon graduation but still has the chance to pursue a subject
he or she is passionate about while in school.

Encourage students to apply for internships. An internship is another great way
parents can help kids as they decide on a college major. Internships are rarely
easy to get, but some firms hire interns who are still in high school. Parents
should encourage kids to pursue internships as early as possible. Internships
can provide young students with some real-world experience and give them an
accurate glimpse into what their professional lives might be like if they choose
a particular field of study. Some kids might be encouraged by an internship,
while others might realize a given field is not really for them. Either way, the
internship can help narrow down the field of prospective majors for young
students.

Let kids know a major isn't the same thing as a career. The pressure to choose
the right major can be overwhelming for some young students. But parents should
let kids know that a major is not the same thing as a career, and many graduates
end up working in fields that had little or nothing to do with their majors. For
instance, just because a student earns a degree in finance does not mean he or
she will end up working on Wall Street. While parents should emphasize the
importance of choosing the right major when speaking to their children, they
should also let kids know that nothing is ever set in stone. That can help take
some of the pressure off students as they make such an important decision.

Today's college students have more to consider when choosing a college major
than many of their predecessors. But parents can still take steps to help kids
choose the right major without succumbing to the stress that comes with making
such a significant decision.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Leader-Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Islamabad Dateline

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday

Choosing a path for higher education

SECTION: Vol. I No. 247

LENGTH: 349  words


Students completing higher secondary school are presently beset with the
pressure of choosing the right career path, with a view to pursue higher
education. Parents alike feel the pressure of getting their children admitted to
universities of their choice. Many may, at the end, feel the disappointment of
not getting into the college of their choice. The recognised universities are
limited to 132 in all, with 73 being in the public domain and 59 in the private
sector. These universities are said to be "fully functional" according to the
parameters set by the Higher education Commission (HEC).

Admission to a public university in Pakistan is dependent on two main
principles. firstly, public universities admit students through merit system.
The applicants must gain certain grades to enter these. Secondly, the
educational system allows streaming at the intermediate level, which means that
the choice of courses is already determined, with students taking pre
engineering, premedical, humanities, business or accounting subjects. Other
factors impacting students to pursue higher education depend on financial
factors, academic merit and faculty reputation. for many students, financial
status plays a huge part, as tuition fees, boarding and personal expenses have
to be considered. The choice of college depends on the career chosen. Academic
merit basically means 'what you wish to study'. A higher merit is required for a
medical or engineering college based on countrywide competition. A standardised
test is already a feature of gaining admission into these colleges.

faculty facilities such as student faculty ratio, average class size, percentage
of faculty who teach, percentage of classes that are taught by qualified
doctoral professors matter. Here, accreditation of the courses of study and
university with a recognised faculty is essential. Thus, dynamics in university
selection for students opting for a graduate degree depend on the indigenous
cultural and economic factors affecting career options, as well as gender, in
choosing the most suitable university and career.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Islamabad Dateline
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 7, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Perfect Match

BYLINE: By REBECCA R. RUIZ

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 470 words


CHOOSING a compatible college is a life decision right up there with choosing a
compatible mate, and the new service WiseChoice.com leverages that analogy.
Students complete a five-part questionnaire whose Likert-scale
cross-examinations resemble a dating site's, and for good reason. ''eHarmony was
our model,'' says Lori Grandstaff, a vice president. The profile, along with
academic and financial input, informs the free computer-generated
psychoanalysis.

After several hours of self-discovery through test taking, I was matched with 32
colleges, including the University of Pennsylvania (reach school), Berklee
College of Music (target) and Savannah College of Art and Design (safety). I
don't play an instrument well, and I attended Cornell (not among my matches) for
hotel administration but work as a researcher. So who knows?

I consulted Ilona Jerabek, the psychologist who helped develop WiseChoice, on
what makes a good fit.

On a scale of 1 to 5, how well do these statements describe you?

Statement: I'm optimistic.

Interpretation: ''Positive thinking impacts academic performance. If somebody
tends to be relatively negative, it affects their feelings of self-efficacy and
likelihood of success. Unless students are artsy, where negative moods might
stimulate imagination or provide material, we would match people with such moods
with smaller schools that provide good emotional support.''

Statement:I pride myself on being different.

Interpretation: ''They may want to stand out but they would feel a little weird
at a small campus or a school in a rural area. We would suggest an urban
setting.''

Statement:I don't judge a person until I really get to know him or her.

Interpretation: ''This is about jumping to conclusions, agreeableness and
open-mindedness. But if a person is close-minded and more conservative, liberal
institutions might not make them feel welcome.''

Statement:I keep promises I make to my friends or family.

Interpretation: ''If a student is not dependable, he might slack off on
assignments and need schedule structure and academic support.''

Statement: I couldn't care less what name is on my jeans.

Interpretation: ''If somebody is not extremely brand-conscious, we would suggest
less expensive schools that provide excellent education but are not huge
names.''

Statement:I must be up-to-date with fashion, even if it means spending money I
don't have.

Interpretation: ''If people go to places where cost of living is high and
shopping opportunities are huge, to New York City, for example, and they have a
spending problem, it's likely it will lead to financial difficulties.''

Statement: I tend to behave impulsively.

Interpretation: ''If someone is prone to peer pressure and has poor
self-control, he might give in to binge drinking and not attending classes. We
wouldn't recommend party schools.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART
 DRAWING

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                              May 16, 2010 Sunday

MAHSA offers quality medical programmes

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 641 words


WITH the SPM and STPM results recently released, many students are weighing
their options in choosing the best course for their future careers as well as
which institution they should choose to realise their dreams. With more and more
educational institutions mushrooming all over Malaysia, the predicament of a
student gets more difficult.

There are many things which come into play when choosing a college or university
in planning for their future. An institution with a good track record, one that
provides a good and conducive environment, good academic staff, one which offers
accredited courses as well as one with a secure future and so on.

Today, more and more educational institutions are venturing into offering a
wider range of courses in order to increase their numbers. This has both its
pros and cons. In one way it gives students a broader scope into choosing an
institution which would suit them best but on the other it also pushes them
deeper into utter confusion as there are so many colleges offering identical
courses.

Other problems which follow suit are problems of quality. Many colleges today
offer many different courses so as to join the bandwagon of providing what is in
demand, but how familiar are they in the proper execution of these courses.

Many institutions which started off as a specialist in a certain field are today
offering everything under the sun. This can only mean one thing - the quality of
education is being compromised. Taking into consideration all this, students
should make their choice of university based on the specialisation of programmes
that the institution offers.

In medical and allied health sciences course, the leading name in the industry
is undoubtedly MAHSA University College. The institution has been specialising
in quality allied health science courses since its establishment in 2004.

Although it started off by only offering the Diploma in Nursing, MAHSA has grown
by leaps and bounds, and now offers 18 different courses related to medical and
allied health sciences. Despite having grown in such a short period of time, the
institution has not compromised on the quality of its programmes and facilities.

With more and more courses being offered by the institution, MAHSA specifically
caters to produce competent professionals to cater to the ever growing demand of
healthcare professionals in the country. With high standards of education and
state-of-the-art facilities, MAHSA enables students to experience the best of
university life as well as city life with both its campuses located in major
townships of Kuala Lumpur.

MAHSA's campuses are also equipped with auditoriums, lecture halls, classrooms,
simulation wards, mini pharmacy, science labs, skill labs, computer labs,
libraries as well as many other facilities to provide the best hands-on training
to students. With easy access to banks, LRT stations, restaurants, shops and
clinics, students do not have to go out of their way to meet their needs.

In view of this, MAHSA not only merely offers theoretical courses but emphasises
60 per cent on theory and 40 per cent on clinical practical sessions to ensure
that all its students are well prepared and familiar with all aspects of their
chosen course.

Entry requirements for any of the diploma courses offered at MAHSA are a minimum
of three credits in SPM, inclusive of one science subject.

However for the Diploma in Dental Technology, the requirement is a minimum five
credits. Students who want to pursue their MBBS or Dentistry Degree's are
advised to enrol in the Foundation in Science course as the course is
specifically tailored to provide a concrete foundation for students, thus making
their transition into a Degree programme hassle free.

For more information, call 1800880300, 03-20929999 or 03-20938992.
Alternatively, visit http://www.mahsa.edu.my

( END )

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Excellence in education

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2010 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times Higher Education Supplement

                                November 3, 2011

Intelligence agency

BYLINE: Peter Vicary-Smith

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 32 No. 2023

LENGTH: 380  words


Which?'s intention to move into the world of higher education information
provision has caused something of a stir (The week in higher education, 27
October).

We know that choosing a university is a world away from choosing a car or a
washing machine. Rating any service is more complex than rating products, but
Which? has tried-and-tested methods for getting to the heart of what people need
to know about service providers in a range of market sectors.

Some commentators have falsely assumed that we intend to create a simple
equation where the value of a degree is determined by the likelihood of getting
a job at the end of it. That's not the case.

Students today are faced with complex choices, and better information can and
should play an important role in guiding their decisions. Currently, most
applicants use only a small proportion of the data available to them when
choosing a university, focusing on Universities and Colleges Admissions Service
information, national league tables and university prospectuses. Is this really
enough to inform decisions that will play major roles in determining their
futures? We think not.

Which? will provide a user-friendly guide, pulling together all the information
and advice students need to choose the right course and the right university for
them. That will include the facts that are already available from different
sources, including course entry requirements, student-satisfaction ratings and
information on how many graduates are working six months after their courses
end, and where.

To this, we'll add advice to help students compare universities according to
their own criteria. There is no one-size-fits-all approach, but that's no reason
not to make the process as transparent as possible.

Students are increasingly aware of the long-term financial implications of their
choices. If they're going to incur debts of up to £ 27,000 for fees alone, they
need the best information available.

As an independent, not-for-profit organisation with more than 50 years in the
business of providing information and advice, Which? is uniquely placed to help
students get the maximum long-term benefits from their investment of time,
effort and money in university. Surely that's a win- win for everyone?

Peter Vicary-Smith, CEO, Which?

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 TSL Education Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                           December 7, 2016 Wednesday

New health campaign cracks down on unnecessary treatment

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT; General

LENGTH: 472 words


A campaign to reduce unnecessary health tests, treatments and procedures has
been launched.

The campaign, "Choosing Wisely", focuses on areas where evidence shows that
tests, treatments or procedures done by health practitioners provide little or
no benefit to a patient and could even cause harm.

A survey of New Zealand doctors found that half thought the provision of
unnecessary tests, procedures or treatments was a serious or somewhat serious
issue.

The Council of Medical Colleges worked with Consumer NZ to survey consumers
about unnecessary tests, treatment and procedures.

The survey found that when they visited a doctor, 56 per cent of respondents
generally expected the doctor to provide a prescription or send them for a test
and 41 per cent of these agreed some tests or treatments which are carried out
do not benefit the patient in any meaningful way.

Nearly 20 per cent believed their doctor had recommended a test or treatment to
them which wasn"t necessary.

The campaign is being run by the Council of Medical Colleges, in partnership
with the Health Quality & Safety Commission and Consumer NZ. It is supported by
many health sector groups. Similar campaigns are run in Australia, Canada,
England and several other countries.

"Choosing Wisely is about shifting thinking by health professionals and patients
- that more is not necessarily better when it comes to health care treatment,"
says Dr Derek Sherwood, ophthalmologist and chairman of the Council of Medical
Colleges.

"Health professionals will be encouraged to discuss the risks and benefits of
these tests with patients, so patients can make an informed choice."

Many medical colleges and specialist societies working in New Zealand are
engaged in Choosing Wisely and have developed a list of recommendations in
relation to unnecessary tests, treatments and procedures for their area of
practice. Several more are developing recommendations.

"There are a large number of medical tests, treatments and procedures available,
but that doesn"t always mean we should use them," Dr Sherwood says.

"For example, not only do X-rays and CT scans expose patients to potentially
cancer-causing radiation, but many studies have shown these scans frequently
identify things requiring further investigation but that often turn out to be
nothing. This means patients can undergo stressful and potentially risky
follow-up tests and treatments for no reason.

"Another example is avoiding prescribing antibiotics for upper respiratory tract
infection."

Choosing Wisely encourages patients to ask their health practitioners:bull:

bull Do I really need to have this test treatment or procedure?

bull What are the risks?

bull Are there simpler, safer options?

bull What happens if I do nothing?

To find out more about unnecessary tests, procedures and treatments, go to
www.choosingwisely.org.nz

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            January 19, 2007, Friday
                                 First Edition

Welsh students staying close to home to cut the cost of their degree

BYLINE: Tryst Williams Western Mail

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 662 words


Welsh universities and colleges witnessed an astonishing 11% rise in students
from Wales over the past year, according to the latest official figures released
yesterday. The rise, which comes amid a general decline in UK university
admissions, has been attributed to Wales' resistance to top-up fees for
homegrown students.

But student leaders last night expressed fears that top-up fees over the border
could erode key elements of the university experience, such as gaining
independence and seeing 'other parts of the world'.

The 2006 statistics, released by the Universities and Colleges Admissions
Service (Ucas), show Welsh student admissions to English universities dropped by
14.1% - from 6,324 to 5,434 - over the previous year, while admissions to
Scottish and Northern Irish universities dropped by 28.8% and 42.9%
respectively.

A Ucas spokesman said, 'There is an apparent relationship between these figures
and the funding arrangements in place in Wales, with Welsh students choosing to
remain in Wales to study, rather than other parts of the UK.'

Throughout the whole of the UK the number of accepted applicants dropped by 3.6%
from 405,369 to 390,890 last year.

The rising number of Welsh students accepted at Welsh universities, meanwhile,
actually meant Wales' institutions bucked the trend with a 0.4% rise in accepted
applicants.

A spokesman for the Welsh Assembly Government said, 'We want students of any
nationality to consider Wales as a location of choice to pursue higher
education.

'It's great news that Welsh student numbers are increasing, this shows that they
believe Wales is an excellent place to study.

'These final figures confirm provisional data released in the autumn and point
even more strongly to the fact that our Welsh students are responding to the
robust student support arrangements the Assembly Government is putting in place
by choosing to study here.

'Our students know that, even though our universities will be able to charge up
to pounds 3,070 in tuition fees from next year, Welsh-domiciled students won't
pay any more, thanks to our fee remission grant.'

Jo Roberts, NUS Wales women's officer, said, 'The obvious explanation of these
figures is that top-up fees have been introduced in universities in England.

'These figures illustrate that top-up fees deter students from applying to
university and fly in the face of the Government's Widening Access agenda.'

The organisation raised concerns about students losing out on a key facet of the
student experience.

'If students are choosing the opportunity to go because they can afford it
rather than because they have the ability they're losing that vital aspect of
university experience which is seeing another part of the world,' a spokesman
added.

'Similarly, students are choosing to stay at home and losing that aspect of
learning to fend for themselves.'

Traditional subjects continued to dominate the list of most popular degree
courses, with law, psychology, English and medicine all remaining in the top 10.

But less traditional degree choices, including dance and complementary medicine,
were evident in a list of fastest-growing courses.

Geraldine Hurl, programme director of Uwic's Cardiff-based BA in dance, said the
rise in popularity of the subject was largely down its increasing importance in
school PE classes. The course is the first of its kind in Wales and attracted 90
applicants last year. She said it was not a 'soft option' course, with an entry
requirement of two Bs or equivalent at A-level, adding, 'I would suggest that
our students are, academically, rigorously tested in their ability. The
experience they have lends itself to key skills they can transfer to any
career.': TOP 10 MOST POPULAR DEGREE SUBJECTS 2006:Subject Number of students
accepted Law 14,952 Design studies 13,901 Psychology 13,083 Management studies
11,538 Business studies 10,691 Computer science 9,987 English studies 8,853
Pre-clinical medicine 8,011 Social work 7,769 Sports science 7,759

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 29, 2015 Thursday

Washington: Readout from a Treasury spokesperson regarding Deputy Secretary
Raskin's roundtable with Bunker Hill Community College students

LENGTH: 230  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: U.S Department of Treasury has issued the following news release:



 U.S. Treasury Deputy Secretary Sarah Bloom Raskin participated in a roundtable
discussion with students at Bunker Hill Community College in Boston today
focused on student loans and college affordability.  Deputy Secretary Raskin
asked the students to share their views, concerns, and suggestions based on
their experiences in choosing a school and figuring out how to pay for it.





 Deputy Secretary Raskin said that the Obama Administration is committed to
increasing access and improving outcomes for students choosing different higher
education options at various stages of their lives. She highlighted the
Administration's proposal to expand free community college, an essential entry
point into higher education for millions of Americans, as one example.  Deputy
Secretary Raskin also stressed the importance of borrowers understanding their
repayment options, including the availability of income based repayment
alternatives, as they finish school and enter repayment.  She closed by
restating that the Treasury Department will continue to work with the White
House, the Department of Education, and other agencies on this issue that is
vital to our country's future.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusme.com





LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 14, 2012 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

First, stop doing harm

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 502 words


As the nation awaits the Supreme Court's decision on the Affordable Care Act,
physician organizations are trying to accomplish the law's primary goal:
improving quality and reducing costs.

The American Board of Internal Medicine has taken a concept from the National
Physicians Alliance and expanded it into a campaign appropriately titled "
Choosing Wisely." The initiative promotes evidence-based patient care that does
not rely on duplicative and often unnecessary medical tests. Nine medical
societies have compiled lists that identify tests and procedures commonly used
in their fields that should be questioned and discussed by doctors and patients.
For example, the American Academy of Family Physicians advises against Pap
smears on women younger than 21 and those who have had a hysterectomy unrelated
to cancer. That makes sense; Pap smears test for cervical cancer, and most women
who have had hysterectomies also lose their cervix.

Donald Berwick, CEO of the Institute for Healthcare Improvement and former
director of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, called "Choosing
Wisely" a "game-changer" because "the advice comes not from payers or politicos
but from pedigreed physician groups." Those groups include the American College
of Radiology, the American College of Physicians and American College of
Cardiology. "By suggesting that physicians and patients think twice before using
certain tests and treatments," Dr. Berwick wrote, "the specialty societies are
speaking against their own economic self-interest, which in fee-for-service
payment attaches income to volume."

Though the health reform law does not change the fee-for-service model, it
finances programs designed to improve care by increasing coordination and
reducing unnecessary tests and procedures. Providers share in the savings by
keeping their patients well. The law also finances research to help doctors and
patients identify the most appropriate tests and procedures.

Provisions in the law aimed at lowering costs and making care more efficient and
effective have been wrongly labeled as "death panels" and "rationing." These
provisions are neither. They promote the practice of good medicine, and align
with the ideals of "Choosing Wisely."

The American Board of Internal Medicine recognizes that providers must help
bring down costs: "The polarizing political environment makes it difficult to
conduct rational public discussions about this issue, but clinicians and
consumers can change the nature of this debate to the potential benefit of
patients, the medical profession, and the nation," ABIM President Christine K.
Cassel wrote this month in the Journal of the American Medical Association. "The
initial focus should be on overuse of medical resources, which not only is a
leading factor in the high level of spending on health care but also places
patients at risk of harm."

Whatever the fate of the health reform law, such health reform initiatives must
continue.

-- Rhonda Swan,The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  WHAT DO YOU THINK? TALK BACK!OUR VIEWSHEALTH CARE COSTSOPINION: THE
DEBATE   STARTS HERE  Do fewer medical tests equal rationing
care?pbpost.com/go/opinionzoneVote now: Scan this code with your smartphone.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           September 28, 1998, Monday

A MUCH-NEEDED COLLEGE GUIDE

BYLINE: THOMAS SOWELL

SECTION: PostOpinion; Pg. 025

LENGTH: 545 words


THE choice of a college can have lifelong consequences - and you can't rely on
big names as a guide. Big names usually come from faculty research, not the
teaching of undergraduates.

Fortunately, a recently published book, Choosing the Right College, provides a
far better analysis of individual colleges than most of the standard guide
books. It not only covers each school's academic atmosphere but also the social
atmosphere, including whether political correctness has run amok.

Many of our big-name colleges and universities have become indoctrination
centers for the counter-culture, with co-ed showers and prescribed groupthink on
everything from ethnicity to homosexuality. Students who want to think for
themselves can get into very big trouble over very small things.

Choosing the Right College not only warns about places where the inmates have
taken over the asylum, it also tells you about ones that are still old-fashioned
enough to have a real curriculum and a sense of decency, as well as professors
whose job it is to teach. It also tells you about places that don't cost an arm
and a leg, but give you more bang for the buck.

This book presents a rounded picture - warts and all - of the pluses and minuses
of 100 colleges. While it calls many of the cultural courses at Stanford little
more than anti-Western hand-wringing, it also points out that two Stanford
professors with Nobel Prizes in physics also won teaching awards.

Harvard's pluses and minuses are likewise discussed candidly. While Harvard
still retains many of the best-known scholars and thinkers in the country, there
are also real problems at Harvard - the core curriculum is large and undefined;
grade inflation has become outrageous; and political correctness is to many
there a higher calling than intellectual integrity.

This book is not confined to colleges that are household names. It also covers
smaller institutions with their own distinctive features. Perhaps the most
distinctive of all is Hillsdale College in Michigan. An avowedly conservative
institution, it nevertheless invites such speakers as Jesse Jackson and Patricia
Schroeder, so that its students do not hear only the conservative stalwarts like
William F. Buckley and Ronald Reagan, who have also spoken there. Very few
liberal institutions invite conservative speakers. Hillsdale not only has a
curriculum, it is a very traditional curriculum. More than a fifth of its
students major in classics.

Other colleges march to their own drummers: Claremont-McKenna College in
California, Rhodes College in Tennessee, Birmingham-Southern in Alabama and the
University of Dallas, for example - all covered in this book.

Choosing the Right College is head-and-shoulders above any other college guide.
Not only is it very helpful when making a choice among colleges, it will also be
useful for knowing some of the outstanding teachers to look for after arriving
on the college of your choice. It names names: Walter Williams at George Mason
University, Price Zimmerman at Davidson College and Dwight Lee at the University
of Georgia, among many others.

Choosing The Right College also lists each college's web site, from which you
can get literature immediately, without waiting for the mails.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                              78 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Windsor Star (Ontario)

                            March 26, 2009 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Wilkes looks south; Comet earns basketball scholarship to Miami-Dade

BYLINE: Mary Caton, Windsor Star

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D4

LENGTH: 386  words


When it came to choosing a junior college basketball program, Catholic Central's
Ashley Wilkes said the decision was made in part by location.

"To be honest with you, the weather was one reason," she said of choosing
Miami-Dade College in Florida.

The 18-year-old will shed no tears over missing another cold Windsor winter next
year.

Beyond the sun, Wilkes is also heading to a proven program playing in a tough
conference.

"The coach is very passionate and she's all about making me a better basketball
player," said Wilkes, who was offered a full-ride scholarship from the Lady
Sharks for the next two years.

Miami-Dade has built a reputation for advancing players to NCAA Division I
programs and that's a goal for Wilkes as well.

"We have great expectations for her," Lady Sharks head coach Susan Summons said.
"The sky is the limit. We're going to push her to be one of the best in the
nation. My job is to get them ready for the high power of NCAA Division I."

Summons has yet to see Wilkes play in person but she's watched a lot of video.

"It doesn't take long to see the ability of a player," said Summons, a former
All-American and professional player.

"She's got tremendous potential."

Wilkes visited schools in Oklahoma and Wyoming but settled on Miami-Dade after
one particularly lengthy phone conversation with Summons.

Windsor Valiants coach Paul Levac was driving Wilkes home from a tournament in
Sarnia and just as they were crossing the Bluewater Bridge, Summons called.

"I didn't hang up until we were in Windsor," Levac said.

"She talked to either Ashley or I the whole way. By the time we got to Windsor,
Ashley was sold."

Wilkes considered leaving high school after Grade 12 but she's glad she returned
for a fifth year.

She averaged 15 points a game this season and together with Miah Langlois, they
led the Comets to the school's first WECSSAA AAA girls' basketball championship.

"It was a good decision on my part," Wilkes said. "I came home and improved my
game and got a few more offers."

At five-foot-11, she plays post in Canada but will likely be better suited to
small forward in the U.S. game.

"I'm sure I'll have to play more of an outside game. I want to work on my
shooting and I need more confidence with my dribbling when I'm attacking the
basket," she said.

mcaton@thestar.canwest.com or 519-255-5726

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Ashley Wilkes ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2009 Windsor Star, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  The Daily Republic (Mitchell, South Dakota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 27, 2013 Wednesday

Mitchell players keep choosing Mount Marty baseball team

BYLINE: Luke Hagen, The Daily Republic, Mitchell, S.D.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 698 words


March 27--Mount Marty College baseball coach Andy Bernatow said there are a
number of factors why he recruits in Mitchell often.

This year, Bernatow has announced the commitment of two players who play for
Mitchell's spring and Legion teams, raising the total of his Mitchell recruits
to seven since he took over the Yankton-based team in 2004.

"We see good players from that program and we're always looking to go back,"
Bernatow said. "It's always been a smooth transition and the kids have been
enjoyable on and off the field."

Within the last month, Mount Marty has announced the signings of catcher Michael
Sadler and shortstop Jared Schmidt, who will both join the Lancers this fall.

Currently on Mount Marty's roster is sophomore Ryan Buck and junior Zach London,
who both played Mitchell baseball. Buck is a Mitchell native, while London is a
Mount Vernon native who played one summer of Legion in Mitchell.

Other players who came from Mitchell and have graduated from Mount Marty after
playing for Bernatow are twins Josh and Nick Wenande and Jason Schmidt.

Of all the players who played under Mitchell coach Luke Norden and have gone on
to compete in the sport collegiately, no other school comes close to the amount
of players Mount Marty has recruited from town.

Bernatow said Norden teaches the game the right way and the players from
Mitchell have made a smooth transition from the high school and Legion games to
college.

"Coach Norden up in Mitchell does a tremendous job," Bernatow said. "The kids
we've been able to get from Mitchell, we've been really impressed with their
game knowledge, their coachability and their approach to the game."

Norden has coached 17 players who've gone on to play or have committed to play
college baseball. The majority have headed to play for Bernatow.

"I think it has to do with Mount Marty and coach Bernatow having trust in our
program," said Norden, a former Dakota Wesleyan University pitcher. "But it's
not like I seek out their program to send kids there. It just happens that he's
been able to get Mitchell kids. It's something he sees, not something I'm trying
to set up."

Bernatow also noted his team's success on the field and in the classroom for
reasons baseball players are choosing Mount Marty.

In the past two out of three years, the Lancers have been NAIA national
tournament qualifiers. They won the Great Plains Athletic Conference postseason
tournament last year and won the regular-season title in 2010.

As students, Bernatow's teams have earned the NAIA Scholar Team Award each year
he's been coach. The award goes to any baseball team in the NAIA that has a
cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher.

"I think success breeds success, and the more success you have, the more kids
you have an opportunity to open more doors in terms to talk to," said Bernatow,
who's the longest-tenured college baseball coach at any level in South Dakota.
"Kids talk. They say if they're having a good experience and if things are going
well and they're enjoying things. Sometimes, the kids within your program can be
your number-one recruiters."

And while Bernatow says he never gets into any recruiting battles, one of the
schools he has to compete directly with in recruiting is Mitchell's Dakota
Wesleyan University, another NAIA institution that also competes in the GPAC.

Since Norden took over as coach of the Mitchell baseball teams, three of his
players went on to play at Dakota Wesleyan University. But he says it really has
nothing to do with the school or team as the reason why his players aren't
choosing it at the same rate as Mount Marty.

"I think it's hard for colleges to get in-town kids because kids want to go
somewhere else," Norden said. "They want to get out of town and go away, and
that's good experience for college, I feel. I don't think kids aren't going to
Wesleyan for any reason beside that.

"Wesleyan has had some very productive years of baseball over the last eight to
10 years since I ended school there. I just think a majority of kids decide to
go to get out of town."

___ (c)2013 The Daily Republic (Mitchell, S.D.) Visit The Daily Republic
(Mitchell, S.D.) at www.mitchellrepublic.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130327-JQ-Mitchell-players-keep-choosing
-Mount-Marty-baseball-team-0327-20130327

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JQ


                       Copyright 2013 The Daily Republic


                              80 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             March 21, 2011 Monday

Around Hacienda Heights, March 22

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 288 words


Workshop today to center on planning for college

Worried about choosing and paying for college? Brian Mark will present a
workshop on "College Planning for Peace of Mind" in the Hacienda Heights
Library.

The meeting will be held in the community room from 7 to 8 p.m. today March 22.
Mark will teach families some special methods for choosing a college and
financing the cost.

The library is at 16010 La Monde St. For information call 626-968-9356.

Wildflower workshop at Hacienda Heights Trailhead

A wildflower workshop will be held from 9 to 11 a.m. Saturday at the Hacienda
Hills Trailhead at end of Seventh Avenue in Hacienda Heights.

Ann Croissant from the San Gabriel Mountains Regional Conservancy will lead the
informative walk in the hills. Families will be introduced to the many native
plants growing in Southern California.

For information, call the Puente Hills Landfill Native Habitat Preservation
Authority at 562-945-9003 or see www.habitatauthority.org .

Local woman to walk in pancreatic cancer fundraiser

The Pancreatic Cancer Action Network will sponsor the Purple Stride fundraiser
and awareness walk at 7:30 a.m. May 14 at Plaza El Segundo in Los Angeles.

Come out and help fight pancreatic cancer. The event includes entertainment,
silent auction and activities for children.

Liz Avila of Hacienda Heights is walking in memory of her mother, Mary, who died
Dec. 18 from the disease. Avila notes that pancreatic cancer is the fourth
leading cause of cancer death.

The Purple Stride raises money for research to find a cure for pancreatic
cancer. To sponsor Avila and her family in the walk, e-mail her at
Lizarxs@gmail.com .

For more information, see the website at www.pancan.org/purplestride .

richard.irwin@sgvn.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 11, 2017 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Choosing a major: Some data behind the confusing, anxiety-ridden decision

BYLINE: Jeffrey J. Selingo

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 925 words


This is the time of year when college majors probably garner the most attention
- from high school seniors who often need to pick one to complete their
admissions applications and from undergraduates returning home after the fall
semester wondering if they made the wrong choice.

Plenty of guidebooks and websites exist for picking a college, but by
comparison, relatively few resources exist to guide students in choosing a
major. Several reports about majors that landed in my email inbox recently
highlight why the decision is so fraught for so many students who see it as
tantamount to choosing a career. The data about majors are often confusing and
sometimes contradictory. Here's some of what I learned from reading these
studies.

Men and women segregate themselves by major. Men major in engineering and
computer science; women major in nursing, education and social work. That's the
conclusion from a forthcoming study to be published by Georgetown University's
Center on Education and the Workforce.

Women constitute 10 percent of electrical engineering majors, 8 percent of
mechanical engineering majors and 20 percent of computer science majors.
Meanwhile, 12 percent of nursing majors are men, and men represent 14 percent of
majors in social work and constitute 4 percent of majors in early-childhood
education.

Anthony P. Carnevale, the Georgetown center's director, says segregation by
major partly explains the gender gap when it comes to pay after college because
men tend to choose majors that pay more.

"The shift from an industrial to a postindustrial economy has benefited women
generally, but college-educated women not so much," Carnevale said. "Men chase
the money, while women chase their passions even in the same field."

College officials who see these trends play out on their campuses are reluctant
to talk about them out of fear their comments might come off as sexist. Women,
they say, pursue their passions - whether it pays off or not - while men go for
the money. "We really narrowly define passion," said Laurel Kennedy, vice
president for student development at Denison University in Granville, Ohio,
where within six months after graduation, women are three times as likely as men
to be employed in service fields, such as AmeriCorps or Teach for America. "We
don't talk about the ability to care for your family as a laudable goal."

Majors are changeable. For all the anxiety around picking a major among high
school students, they will probably change their minds at some point. Some 52
percent of students change their intended major between the time they first take
the SAT or ACT and the time they apply for college, according to Royall & Co., a
firm that assists colleges with their student recruitment.

If students don't change their major before they get to college, they might once
they are there. A report released this month by the U.S. Education Department's
National Center for Education Statistics found nearly one-third of first-time
college students change their majors at least once within three years of
enrollment. Students who chose education or humanities as their first majors
were more likely to switch than those who selected business or engineering. The
major most likely to switch: math.

Students change majors for a variety of reasons. In the case of math, it might
be it turns out to be more difficult in college than it was in high school. In
other cases, students see jobs up close as interns and decide a field is not for
them. Or they succumb to pressure to pick a practical major their parents think
will lead to a job.

Despite conventional wisdom, choosing a major early on - even before arriving on
campus - and sticking with it doesn't necessarily guarantee you'll get out of
college any faster, or even on time. Indeed, students who settle on a major the
first semester of freshman year graduate at slightly lower rates than those who
decide on one their second semester, according to research by EAB, a higher
education consulting company, based on six years of data involving more than
78,000 students. After that, it doesn't matter much.

Watch where you get advice about choosing a major. More than half of students
turn to their family and friends for counseling on picking a major, according to
a survey released this fall from Gallup and the Strada Education Network. But
the study found that those most common sources of advice were also the least
useful.

When asked what advice was most helpful, 83 percent of students cited advice
from employers or co-workers, or from people with experience in an intriguing
line of work. That's above the scores of 66 percent for college counselors and
61 percent for high school counselors.

The problem is few students turned to those formal sources of advice. Only 20
percent said they got advice from informal work sources; 11 percent had sought
guidance from a high school counselor; and 28 percent from a college adviser.

Students are commonly told they should follow their passions and find a mission
in life, but few 18-year-olds or even 22-year-olds have enough experience in the
world to know what truly excites them. Pick a major that interests you, but
allow it and external experiences to help shape, not dictate, your mission in
life. While you should consider different majors, and you should keep your
options open for a while, don't think you can do anything you want. Talent and
drive matter to achieve success in most majors, of course. You can't major in
physics, after all, if you're terrible at math.

jeff.selingo@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                           September 14, 2015 Monday

The burdening challenge of choosing a college

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 626 words



I'm writing this column because of the anxiety experienced by many high school
students and their families as the students enter their senior year and deal
with selecting a college.

There is both good hard research and conventional wisdom that can lessen the
anxiety and lead to wiser decisions.

Part of the problem is the way in which parental needs and desires sometimes
interfere with what is best for the students.

In many cases the problem also lies in mistaken beliefs regarding the colleges
themselves.

And often the problem is that the student and family just don't do the research
needed to make the best decision.

The greatest illusion is that the best path to a good career is through a
prestigious college or university and that this should be the primary
consideration in choosing a college.

Frank Bruni's New York Times column, which he also expands on in the book,
"Where You'll Go is Not Who You'll Be: An Antidote to the College Admissions
Mania," is a great help in choosing where to apply to college.

Bruni documents how many parents and schools have turned college admissions into
a destructive process, of test preparation, tutors and researching rankings, out
of the mistaken belief that the students' futures will be determined and their
worth established by which schools they attend.

Also check out, "Excellent Sheep: The Miseducation of the American Elite and the
Way to a Meaningful Life" by William Deresiewicz. Based on extensive research,
the book skewers elite colleges, their brainy but kind of lost students, overly
pushy parents and admissions mayhem.

As a professor at Yale, Deresiewicz found that many of his best students were
adrift when it came to the big questions: How to think critically and creatively
and how to find a sense of purpose.

It is essential, he notes, that college be a time for self-discovery, when
students can establish their own values and measures of success in order to
forge their own paths.

In short, getting into an Ivy League-level college may be a misguided goal.

Finally, please check out "How to Raise an Adult: Break Free of the
Overparenting Trap and Prepare Your Kids for Success" by Julie Lythcott-Haims.

This book shows how parental over-involvement and pressure regarding college and
college choice can be destructive, and she argues that less high-profile
colleges may be a better path for many students.

What emerges across all these books, as well as what I think is just plain
common sense, is that what is most important is the match of student and school.

There are students who may thrive in large schools. For others the size might be
overwhelming.

Both parent and school counselors must have a good understanding of the student,
his or her personality and needs. Then it is more likely that a good match will
be found.

Relying on college catalogs or reputations is not the way to go. Visiting the
college and talking with some of the present students is highly advisable.

You also should be aware that many of the best colleges today are placing far
greater emphasis on student maturity, independence of thought and breadth of
potential talent than on test scores.

Similarly, most employers place little emphasis on what college a student
attended. They are more interested in maturity, stability, dependability,
flexibility and the skills needed for the job.

A Stanford graduate may lose out to one from Lehigh or Pomona if the applicant
from one of those is stronger across all those variables.

The needs of the graduating seniors should come first, and the goal should be
the best match between each of them and the schools they apply to.

Mark Phillips of Woodacre is a professor emeritus of education at San Francisco
State University. He is a regular contributor to Marin Voice.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2015 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                              June 6, 2016 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Contents

SECTION: CAO;FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 249 words


3 Change of Mind - step by step Our complete guide to the CAO Change of Mind
process 4 It's your mind to change Career coach Jill Barrett on making the best
choice for you "I want to go to college" ... but which one? 5 Choosing a course
is one thing - choosing a college is another challenge entirely 6 College
profiles We look at some of Ireland's top colleges to help you make your choice
Interested in property or construction? 9 There are plenty of opportunities in
the diverse field of Chartered Surveying 10 That 'nagging' feeling Jill Barrett
offers some Change of Mind thoughts for parents, guardians and 'significant
adults' Is an arts degree 'the one'? 11 You should give an arts degree a chance,
writes Clodagh Dooley & It's in the science What you can look forward to on a
science course 12 Your courses, your choices Betty McLaughlin, President of the
Institute of Guidance Counsellors, offers her expert advice 13 The final
countdown Kevin Flanagan of Exam Study Plus offers his last-minute Leaving Cert
study tips 14 & 15 Second chances We speak to people who started out on one path
but changed for the better 16 Change of Mind checklist Have you ticked all the
boxes? A BeCreative Editorial Production www.becreative.ie Editor: Ben Murnane
ben@becreative.ie Subeditor: Clodagh Dooley Contributor: Jill Barrett
Advertising: Philip Wharton (01) 705 5445 Design: Susan McClean INM Design
Studio, Belfast Repro: Independent Newspapers (Ireland) Limited, 27-32 Talbot
Street, Dublin 1

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           September 28, 2003 Sunday

Pros and cons to early-admission

SECTION: BAY AREA LIVING

LENGTH: 519 words


Q: My son has always known where he wants to go to college. Now he is a senior
and wants to apply for early admission to this school. Is this a wise move?

A: There are definitely pros and cons to choosing the early-admission option, in
which students apply early to only one college and hear whether they are
admitted by mid-December. By choosing this admissions option, your son is
telling the college where he applies that he will attend that school if admitted
and not any other college where he might have applied under a regular-admission
plan.

Choosing the early-decision application process is a good choice for someone
like your son who knows where he wants to attend college, as it was created for
students like him. There is the immediate benefit of knowing in December that he
has been admitted to his first-choice college and escaping the worry of a much
later decision. Plus, at some schools there is clearly an advantage to applying
early, even though colleges will not admit this. Some colleges with these
programs are now selecting as high as 40 percent of the freshman class from
early-decision applicants.

Early decision is certainly not right for all students, especially those who
have not looked at a number of colleges and weighed their merits, as it limits
them to one college. It is also not a good choice for students who need to
improve their academic qualifications during their senior year in order to be
admitted. Because there has been some criticism of forcing students to make a
decision about where they will attend college early in their senior year, some
schools have initiated early-action plans. Under these plans, students hear
about whether or not they have been admitted earlier, but they do not have to
commit to a school until late spring or whenever they want.

Readers: If your child has been identified as having a learning disability, you
can't just sit back and expect everything to work out perfectly. For your child
to get the help he or she needs, you are going to have to be very determined and
proactive, because some schools might drag their heels in implementing plans
that have been made.

Put the following list up in a prominent spot and check it frequently in order
to make sure your child is receiving the help he or she needs for a specific
learning problem:

1. Know precisely what kind of help your child should be receiving.

2. Check frequently that this help is actually being given.

3. Monitor your child's progress closely.

4. If you don't see any progress, have the committee that made the plan meet
again. You don't have to wait a year for changes to be made to a plan. They can
be adapted at any time as long as the planning team is in agreement.

5. Remember, if you disagree with a decision made by the committee, you can ask
for arbitration.

6. Keep abreast of special-education laws, especially the provisions that will
benefit your child.

Peggy Gisler and Marge Eberts are teachers. Readers should send questions to
Dear Teacher, in care of ANG, Box 395, Carmel, Ind. 46082-0395, or e-mail
dearteacher@excite.com .

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              85 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         The Lovell Chronicle (Wyoming)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                January 2, 2014

UW students honor Top Profs

BYLINE: The Lovell Chronicle staff

LENGTH: 213  words


Members of the University of Wyoming Cap and Gown Chapter of Mortar Board have
named their "Top Profs" for the academic year.

All members of the senior honor society selected professors who have made a
positive impact on their lives at UW - professors who go beyond normal classroom
expectations to help their students succeed, both in college and later in their
careers.

"Being selected as a 'Top Prof is a great honor for professors because they are
chosen by the students," said College of Engineering and Applied Science
Professor David Whitman, one of Mortar Board's advisors.

Selection as a member of Mortar Board is one of the highest honors that a UW
senior can achieve, a University release stated. Mortar Board recognizes
students who have excelled in and out of the classroom based on scholarship,
leadership and service. Mortar Board members participate in many projects and
activities throughout the year, both on campus and in the Laramie community.

Big Horn County Mortar Board Students and their "Top Prof selections for 2013
include:

Basin - Samuel Cauffman, choosing Emily Guseman, kinesiology and health;

Burlington - Joseph Davidson, choosing Kevin Larsen, modern and classical
languages.

Lovell - Danielle Peck, choosing Mark Person, modern and classical languages.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Accomplishment

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LOV

                      Copyright 2014 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                      Copyright 2014 The Lovell Chronicle


                              86 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                              July 23, 2006 Sunday

Great course, shame I can't afford to stay

BYLINE: KATIE TAYLOR

SECTION: C1; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 347 words


Cost rather than course is increasingly the deciding factor when sixth-form
students decide which university to attend. With soaring student debt, many more
schoolleavers are choosing universities in cheaper towns rather than picking top
courses in more expensive areas.

Susan Hayday, higher education manager at the Association of Colleges, which
represents further education colleges, says students are becoming more aware of
differing living costs.

'Sixth-form students are still choosing universities based on the course, but
we're seeing many reject preferred degrees at London colleges because of the
expense,' she says.

The North/South financial divide is reflected in the gap between the cost of
living in cities such as Bristol and London and less pricey locations such as
Liverpool and Bradford.

Over the course of a degree, students can make huge savings on rent, transport
and entertainment by living and studying in a cheaper area. But these students
often forget to factor into their calculations the greater opportunities for
part-time work in expensive cities, which can compensate for the higher living
costs.

Last year, London came top of Royal Bank of Scotland's students' living index,
which assesses the most costeffective university locations.

The real problem, according to Paul Jeffrey, head of student banking at RBS, is
that students often fail to carry out sufficient research.

'Information on housing and transport costs as well as student jobs is readily
available,' he says.

'With planning and careful budgeting, there is no reason why students can't
study in the more expensive locations, such as London.' Melanie Knowles, 20,
from Doxhill, near Scunthorpe, North Lincolnshire, is in the second year of a
psychology course at the University of Liverpool.

She chose it because she pays only Pounds 50 a week in rent and can have a night
out for Pounds 15.

'The course I chose was standard at most universities,' says Melanie. 'But had
there been a better course in London, I would still have chosen the cheaper
option because I don't want to end up with huge debts.'

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                            August 24, 2010 Tuesday

St. Andrew's Anglican College Deploys Wire-like Reliability Via Xirrus Wi-Fi
Arrays

LENGTH: 318  words

DATELINE: Karachi


Karachi, Aug. 24 -- Xirrus', the leader in High Performance Wi-Fi that delivers
the most coverage, bandwidth, and user density in the industry, announced today
the deployment of Xirrus high performance 802.11n Wi-Fi Arrays across St.
Andrew's Anglican College campus in Queensland, Australia. As the college
experiences rapid growth in enrollment, their technology must be continuously
updated to fill the growing demands of an expanding educational environment. St.
Andrew's deployed Xirrus Wi-Fi Arrays because the Xirrus architecture delivers
the performance, reliability, and future upgrades needed for their
ever-expanding student population.

Rory Chapman, IT Manager at St. Andrew's Anglican College explains one main
reason for choosing Xirrus, "I researched quite a lot of vendors and their
products and one of the big things for me in choosing Xirrus was that they were
the only company to send someone out on-site to show me the product - to set it
up in our school and give me real density and coverage results. Other vendors
provided computer based survey results that they did off our plans but I found
that having the actual people come in and do the survey on-site was a much
better benefit."

Rory continued by explaining his tests of the Xirrus system, "We set up a large
number of the laptops on one Array just to test the density and there was
absolutely no performance loss at all, even with a large number of devices on
one of the smaller four radio Arrays. We have a number of the eight radio Arrays
as well which I imagine will cope with even higher density than that. The real
test will be when we start our 1-to-1 program, but I have no qualms that the
equipment will perform as I expect. Published by HT Syndication with permission
from Daily Pak Banker. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Kingston Heritage

                            November 3, 2015 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

How do I choose the right college?

SECTION: SHOPPING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 309  words


Choosing a college is a big decision, but an exciting one. At the Academy of
Learning College in Kingston, the transition to a brand new career can be done
in less than a year.

The Academy of Learning College has some suggestions for you to consider when
choosing a school.

Does the school recognize past credits and courses you have taken?

Does the college do a Skills Gap Analysis and Prior Learning Assessment to
ensure you won't have to take classes that will duplicate existing skills?

Is there any flexibility if you have to miss classes one day because either you
or your child is sick?

Does the college offer one-on-one facilitation and coaching?

Are you able to learn at your own pace?

Will you receive personal coaching throughout your studies?

Does the college offer academic upgrading?

Does the school provide a warm and friendly learning environment?

Will the staff assist you in creating a strong resume and assist you with your
job search?

Is technology integrated into the classes?

Will the college let you visit and try out a lesson?

Will they assist you in finding financial aid?

Can you attend classes year-round?

Can you start immediately?

Does the school offer transfer privileges across Canada?

Will you receive practical, hands-on training?

What do former students say about the college?

The Academy of Learning College offers classes 48 weeks of the year. With
continuous enrolment, it is never too late for you to start at AOLC Kingston
campus. Its 22 career college diploma and certificate programs all have a
vocational focus, gearing students to finding employment upon graduation.

To read about the experiences others have had, check out the Success Stories.

Visit their Facebook page to further connect as well as LinkedIn. For more
information and a free campus tour, call 613-544-8973 or visit
www.aolkingston.com.

Sidebar:

Visit our Profile Page

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                                 Copyright 2015
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Kingston Heritage

                              April 6, 2015 Monday
                                 Final Edition

How do I choose the right college?

SECTION: SHOPPING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 309  words


Choosing a college is a big decision, but an exciting one. At the Academy of
Learning College in Kingston, the transition to a brand new career can be done
in less than a year.

The Academy of Learning College has some suggestions for you to consider when
choosing a school.

Does the school recognize past credits and courses you have taken?

Does the college do a Skills Gap Analysis and Prior Learning Assessment to
ensure you won't have to take classes that will duplicate existing skills?

Is there any flexibility if you have to miss classes one day because either you
or your child is sick?

Does the college offer one-on-one facilitation and coaching?

Are you able to learn at your own pace?

Will you receive personal coaching throughout your studies?

Does the college offer academic upgrading?

Does the school provide a warm and friendly learning environment?

Will the staff assist you in creating a strong resume and assist you with your
job search?

Is technology integrated into the classes?

Will the college let you visit and try out a lesson?

Will they assist you in finding financial aid?

Can you attend classes year-round?

Can you start immediately?

Does the school offer transfer privileges across Canada?

Will you receive practical, hands-on training?

What do former students say about the college?

The Academy of Learning College offers classes 48 weeks of the year. With
continuous enrolment, it is never too late for you to start at AOLC Kingston
campus. Its 22 career college diploma and certificate programs all have a
vocational focus, gearing students to finding employment upon graduation.

To read about the experiences others have had, check out the Success Stories.

Visit their Facebook page to further connect as well as LinkedIn. For more
information and a free campus tour, call 613-544-8973 or visit
www.aolkingston.com.

Sidebar:

Visit our Profile Page

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                                 Copyright 2015
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Nelson Mail (New Zealand)

                           September 15, 2015 Tuesday

Lessons on choosing the right school

SECTION: FEATURES; NATIONAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 795 words


Are you, or is someone in your extended family in the process of choosing a
secondary school for your year 8 son or daughter to attend in 2016?

Choosing a secondary school can be a fraught business, even in Nelson where we
have five very good secondary schools.

Be grateful you don't live in Christchurch, Wellington or Auckland where some
parents face much more complicated choices between different deciles, state,
integrated or private and local or further afield.

Here in Nelson, the biggest difference between the colleges is whether they are
co-ed or single- sex, apart from the style of their buildings and grounds,
which, trust me, doesn't signify.

Disclosure: I teach at a single- sex college so I won't be discussing that
aspect of deciding on a secondary school in this column. Please contact me if
you'd like my opinion.

There are, though, plenty of other things to consider and, as parent of three
children and a teacher who has seen hundreds of fresh faced year nines tumble
through my classroom door I think I can make a few useful comments.

But first a confession - as parents we learnt the hard way.

Husband Steve and I made a real botch of choosing a secondary school for our
eldest. Our daughter wanted to go to one college, the one her intermediate fed
into, the one her friends were going to; we wanted her to go to another.

We had, we thought, good reasons for our choice so we forced the issue.

This was a mistake. She was compliant but unhappy. This made for a bad start to
her first year which had its influence on subsequent years.

New friends were made and there were some successes but her achievement was
definitely hampered. Before year 12 began we asked if she'd like to change
schools. But no, she decided that a change would be just as bad as staying where
she was.

And so she gritted her teeth and dutifully completed the next two years,
emerging with mediocre results and the feeling that she'd never bonded with the
school's culture or values despite some good teachers and the friends she'd
made.

I've seen the same look of disengagement in year 9 boys I've taught who would
really rather be somewhere else.

So I advise you to take into account what your year 8 child wants to do when
you're making this important decision.

Did you go to the local colleges' open evenings, held earlier this term?

These evenings will have given you a feel for the atmosphere, the 'vibe' of a
school and helped you look beyond the glossy presentations to observe
relationships between students and staff. Are these warm and respectful?

If you missed the open evenings, phone the colleges you're interested in and ask
to visit and be shown around, preferably by a senior student.

A 'working day' is a better time to assess the atmosphere of a school than an
open evening, although you won't necessarily go home with the glossy handouts.

What about a college's academic results? Again, we are lucky in Nelson to have
colleges that produce results at and above the national average for girls and
boys of all ethnicities so spending time studying the local colleges' NCEA
statistics is most likely not worth your while.

However, I do recommend looking at the academic 'pathways' colleges' offer. Not
every student is destined for university. What does the college offer students
whose interests and abilities lie elsewhere?

Consider a college's specialities, like sports and co- curricular activities
such as music and drama. How many staff coach teams? How many teams are there?
What about chess club, theatre sports, choir, orchestra or dance?

Even if your child is only keen on sport, the existence of activities like these
tells you a lot about the breadth of interests in the school's community - these
are the marker of a vibrant institution.

Does your child show promise in sport? By all means select a college with a
strength in that area.

But be aware that colleges' sports' strengths can change due to the constant
churn of students, staff and volunteers, and what might be a nationally ranked
programme or team when your child begins college might be different in four or
five years. And your child might have found new interests and enthusiasms too.

Should your child follow their friends to the same college? Starting college is
a time of change for children. They enter the 'big kids' school and many things
about their lives change, including friendships.

I have often observed the creation of completely new social groups amongst the
year nines in my classes. A few friends going to the same college will provide
security, but don't necessarily expect the friendships to last the distance.
And, finally, consider the practical issue of distance from home. In Nelson,
your local college will be a very good college. You'll need good reasons to
choose another option.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                            August 18, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Pupils more cautious about going to university: teacher

BYLINE: JENNY EASTWOOD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 418 words


A-LEVEL pupils are putting off choosing which university to go to ensure they
make the right choice, according to one teacher. Neil Baxter head of sixth form
at Balcarras School, said more were also choosing subjects such as maths,
chemistry and physics which could increase their job prospects.

He said: "Pupils have been a little bit more cautious about going to university.

"Some have opted to take a gap year to think about it a bit longer than perhaps
in previous years because they don't want to run up finances unless they are
sure it's going to be something they will get into.

"They are not as flippant as they used to be when finances were lower, but
that's not a bad thing.

"We have noticed recently that there has been a real increase in pupils doing
maths, chemistry, French and physics.

"There has been a real increase in those numbers to the point where our
chemistry sets are huge next year.

"I would say pupils are choosing A levels for different reasons.

They are choosing them now as unis are saying these are the A levels to get you
onto degrees which will get you a job, whereas in the past they chose on what
they enjoyed doing in Year 11."

Ella Powell, who picked up her results from the Charlton Kings school on
Thursday, decided to take a gap year to make sure she chose the right degree
course.

The 18-year-old from Leckhampton initially thought she would study business but
changed her mind and decided on midwifery.

Ella said: "I only decided last month that I wanted to do midwifery so I'm
taking a year out. I didn't want to go straight to uni on a course I wasn't 100
per cent on.

"Choosing something that leads straight into a job has contributed towards me
making that decision."

Fellow Balcarras pupil Max Joshua, 18, is one pupil who took languages and
science at A-level. He is off to do a new arts and sciences degree at University
College London after getting three A*s in maths, physics and Russian and an A in
history.

He said: "It's joint degree that lets me do physics, history and French and I
really like all three subjects. I don't know what I want to do yet for a career
so I wanted to keep my options open."

It comes as 33,000 fewer university applicants had so far had places confirmed
than at the same time on results day, according to the Cheltenham-based Ucas.

But still many pupils toasted their success. Pupils at Cirencester College had a
99 per cent pass rate and top performers included Hannah Street with three A*s
and an A and Zack Grant with three A*s, an A, and B.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLE


                      Copyright 2012 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Dickinson Press (North Dakota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 6, 2014 Thursday

Choosing to play football, baseball: Dickinson High athletes make it official,
sign with Dickinson State

BYLINE: Royal McGregor, The Dickinson Press, N.D.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 681 words


Feb. 06--Baseball or football?

Football or baseball?

Choosing between the two sports is what Dickinson High senior Dylan Skabo
thought about every week.

In the end, Skabo received the best of both worlds by signing with Dickinson
State to play baseball and football.

"Throughout the decision, it was back and forth on whether I wanted to play two
sports or not," Skabo said. "I had a lot of fun this (football) season and I had
a lot of success. The season was probably turning point for college football for
me."

Skabo became the fourth Dickinson High recruit to sign with the DSU football
team. The 5-foot-10, 155-pound wide receiver for football and middle infielder
for baseball is excited about being able to play both sports at DSU.

Skabo said it would have been hard to let football go after being named a
first-team all-state wide receiver in 2013. He was all-West Region for three
straight years and was selected to play in this summer's Badlands Bowl all-star
game.

"The biggest factor was playing two sports," Skabo said. "After having the
football season we had this year, I just had a lot of fun and I wanted to try it
in college. It would have tougher at (the University of) Jamestown. Football was
the biggest factor."

Though Skabo's parents -- Lee and Cill -- are graduates of DSU, Dylan said they
didn't force a school upon him.

"They didn't really push any college on me," he said. "They were happy with
whichever one I decided to go to. It was nice not having them force a college on
me and whatever decision I made they would have been happy with."

As for baseball, Skabo has played for the high school team since the end of the
freshman season. During his sophomore season, Skabo was a second baseman. He
moved to shortstop in his junior year.

Dickinson High's head baseball coach Pete Dobitz said there is an immediate
excitement when Skabo steps onto the field.

"From the first day he stepped on the field until now, you saw leadership right
away, whether it was in word or action," Dobitz said. "He had the ability and
because he is a talent kid, kids followed him."

Skabo can drive the ball out of the ballpark or in the gap for an extra-base
hit, but his specialty is to drop a bunt down and leg out an infield single.

For the past two seasons, Skabo has been the leadoff hitter for the Midgets
during spring ball and for the Roughriders -- Dickinson's American Legion
baseball team -- in the summer. During the 2013 Legion season, Skabo finished
with a .373 average, nine doubles, three triples, 35 RBIs and 45 runs scored.

"He's unbelievably fast and he swings from the left side," Dobitz said. "He
pretty much has the green light on the base paths and he can go whenever he
wants to.

"When (other teams) know he's going to bunt, he can still beat it out. That just
goes to show how fast he is and his baseball instincts on where he needs to
place the ball."

The three other Dickinson High football players signed to play at DSU are
Mitchell Mehrer, Aaron Sayler and William Schwindt.

DSU first-year head football coach Pete Stanton is excited about having players
from Dickinson play at the next level in their hometown.

"We are very familiar with Dylan and we've watched him compete for a number of
years in several sports," Stanton said. "That's one thing that stood out with
Dylan is that he competes. He got that knack and those football instincts on the
football field."

In the baseball sense, DSU head baseball coach Jason Watson said Skabo will have
the chance to play as a freshman, but will have to earn a spot on the team just
like anyone else.

"Dylan is very athletic and he's very fast," Watson said. "That's one of the
things that was very appealing to me.

"He's going to have the opportunity to earn a starting spot as a freshman. It's
my job to put the nine best guys out there and if he's one of the top 12 or 13
players, he's going to have a good shot of seeing some playing time as a true
freshman."

___ (c)2014 the Dickinson Press (Dickinson, N.D.) Visit the Dickinson Press
(Dickinson, N.D.) at www.thedickinsonpress.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140206-QX-Choosing
-to-play-football-baseball-Dickinson-High-athletes-make-it-official-sign-with-Di
ckinson-State-0206-20140206

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QX


                       Copyright 2014 The Dickinson Press


                              93 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              June 5, 2009 Friday

Colleges boosted by £28m in new funding

BYLINE: Tim Pauling

SECTION: NEWS; EDUCATION; Colleges/Univs; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 341 words


Colleges are to receive more than £16million to cater for an increased demand
for places, it was announced yesterday.

Education Secretary Fiona Hyslop announced they were to share a total of
£28.1million in new funding as a result of money coming to Scotland after the
last Budget.

Thousands of new places will be provided over the next two years with
£16.1million of the award, and the remaining £12million will be spent on
improving facilities.

Ms Hyslop said: "Scotland's colleges have a key role in helping people and
businesses deal with the impact of the economic downturn and ensuring
individuals have the skills and training they need to contribute to this
country's future economic success when the recovery comes."

The Scottish Funding Council had already announced an above-inflation allocation
of £572million in the next financial year, she added. Ms Hyslop said the
additional funding would help cater for an increase in demand for college
courses, both from young people choosing to go on to further study and the
number of older learners who are choosing to go to college to improve their
future job prospects.

She added the £16.1million would pay for more than 3,100 extra full-time places,
although in reality the numbers will be significantly higher, given most college
courses are part-time.

College bosses welcomed the funding. Linda McTavish, convener of the Scotland's
Colleges Principal's Convention, said it was "simply great news".

She added: "Colleges across Scotland have seen big increases in applications for
places this year, and without this additional investment, they would have
struggled to cater to the increased demand."

Labour's further and higher education spokeswoman Claire Baker said the money
was welcome but warned colleges were facing more fundamental problems, which the
government would have to tackle.

"This will do nothing to solve the endemic problems with student support we see
across the sector," she said.

"How can additional places be found, and more students taught, when lecturers
are losing their jobs?"

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fiona Hyslop: "key role"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2009 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                August 23, 1999

Home works for local students

SECTION: Pg.5

LENGTH: 272 words


GLOUCESTERSHIRE'S higher education institutions have had a big increase in
applications from local students.

Careers advisers have reported a sharp rise in the number of teenagers choosing
to study at local universities and colleges.

With the introduction of fees and reduction in grants, many young people are
choosing the cheaper option of studying locally and living at home.

Lindsey Draper, a careers adviser with Learning Partnership West - the county's
independent careers service - said: "It's a trend that has been going on for a
few years, but has become especially noticeable in the past two years.

"For many students, especially those who move away from home, it is now often
essential to have more than one part-time job, just to survive.

"Even then, many are still ending their courses with debts that can take many
years to pay off.

"Young people are increasingly choosing to save money by continuing to live with
parents and studying locally at places such as Cheltenham and Gloucester College
of Higher Education, Hartpury Agricultural College, Worcester College of Higher
Education and the Bristol and Bath universities."

GLOSCAT has also been increasing its higher education provision.

"The absolute priority still has to be to make sure you choose a course that is
right for you, whether that is near here or at the other end of the country,"
Lindsey Draper added.

- The Citizen in conjunction with Learning Partnership West is running an Exam
Hotline with careers advisers on hand to give expert advice.

It is open daily from 9.30am to 4pm from now until September 6 and is on 0117
907 2671.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 1999 The Gloucester Citizen


                              95 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                August 23, 1999

Students prefer it at home

SECTION: Pg.5

LENGTH: 242 words


GLOUCESTERSHIRE'S higher education institutions have had a big increase in
applications from local students.

Careers advisers have reported a sharp rise in the number of teenagers choosing
to study at local universities and colleges.

With the introduction of fees and reduction in grants, many young people are
choosing the cheaper option of studying locally and living at home.

Lindsey Draper, a careers adviser with Learning Partnership West - the county's
independent careers service - said: "It's a trend that has been going on for a
few years, but has become especially noticeable in the past two years.

"For many students, especially those who move away from home, it is now often
essential to have more than one part-time job, just to survive.

"Even then, many are still ending their courses with debts that can take many
years to pay off.

"Young people are increasingly choosing to save money by continuing to live with
parents and studying locally at places such as Cheltenham and Gloucester College
of Higher Education, Hartpury Agricultural College, Worcester College of Higher
Education and the Bristol and Bath universities."

GLOSCAT has also been increasing its higher education provision.

"l The Citizen in conjunction with Learning Partnership West is running an Exam
Hotline with careers advisers on hand to give expert advice.

It is open daily from 9.30am to 4pm from now until September 6 and is on 0117
907 2671.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 1999 The Gloucester Citizen


                              96 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  The Press-Republican (Plattsburgh, New York)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 11, 2008 Thursday

BRIEF: CCC getting close to choosing president

BYLINE: Stephen Bartlett, The Press-Republican, Plattsburgh, N.Y.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 253 words


Dec. 11--PLATTSBURGH -- Clinton Community College will likely announce its new
president at Tuesday's Board of Trustees meeting.

College officials are currently in negotiations with the person they want to
appoint to the position. But a contract has yet to be finalized, so they won't
release information at this time.

"The announcement may be made a week from tonight," Nina Coolidge, chair of the
Board of Trustees, said Tuesday.

The position opened when former President Dr. Maurice "Moe" Hickey abruptly
resigned more than a year ago.

Dr. Frederick Woodward has been filling in as interim president.

CCC officials, displeased with the first presidential search, hired a firm to
help. The second go-around landed a group of candidates they were pleased with.

From that pool, the college named two finalists: John E. Jablonski, provost and
vice president for academic services at Fulton-Montgomery Community College in
Johnstown, and Dr. Patrick Schmitt, campus executive officer and dean at the
University of Wisconsin-Waukesha.

E-mail Stephen Bartlett at: sbartlett@pressrepublican.com

To see more of The Press-Republican or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.pressrepublican.com/. Copyright (c) 2008, The Press-Republican,
Plattsburgh, N.Y. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20081211-ZI-BRF-CCC-getting-close-to-choosing-president-1211

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZI


                                 Copyright 2008


                              97 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 27, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Alarm over child doctors' maternity leave

BYLINE: Kat Lay

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 382 words


Children's medical services are struggling to cope because so many doctors are
taking maternity leave, according to the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child
Health.

Its survey of NHS clinical directors found that many were concerned that units
would be forced to close because of staff shortages. They said that hospital
services needed shaking up, and two thirds of lead paediatricians were concerned
about how the service would cope over the next six months.

The college said that the paediatrics vacancy rate had gone up from 10.5 per
cent in December 2012 to 12.1 per cent in December last year.

Dr Simon Clark, the college's workforce officer, said: "Doctors choosing
paediatrics as a career are likely to be family focused, which is an important
attribute for their professional role.

"We see that many are choosing to start their own families sooner within the
postgraduate paediatric training programmes. And as around 75 per cent of
doctors in paediatric training programmes are female, there are a high
proportion of doctors on maternity leave. There are also a high proportion of
doctors choosing to work less than full time once they have children.

"Such flexibility within the speciality brings workforce planning challenges,
and as this survey highlights, that has left 77 per cent of clinical leads
either very or moderately concerned about how the service will cope in the next
six months.

"If we don't have safe staff numbers to deliver services, then there is a very
real threat that we could see units closing their doors." Hospitals are using
expensive locums to fill gaps in their rotas, the survey found, with 63 per cent
of vacant posts in general paediatrics filled by locums.

The college suggested that NHS bosses consider more collaborative working,
drawing on paediatric staff from the wider area to fill gaps rather than relying
on those already on site.

They said that more appropriately qualified nurses and physician associates
would help to reduce doctors' workloads, and said that enhanced paediatric
training for GPs would also help keep children out of hospital.

Dr Clark added: "The NHS cannot afford to be filling rotas with locums and it is
not safe to rely on doctors who have already worked long shifts to plug gaps -
trusts must utilise the wider workforce."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           August 25, 2010 Wednesday

St. Andrew's Anglican College Deploys Wire-like Reliability Via Xirrus Wi-Fi
Arrays

LENGTH: 319  words

DATELINE: Karachi


Karachi, Aug. 25 -- Xirrus(R), the leader in High Performance Wi-Fi that
delivers the most coverage, bandwidth, and user density in the industry,
announced today the deployment of Xirrus high performance 802.11n Wi-Fi Arrays
across St. Andrew's Anglican College campus in Queensland, Australia. As the
college experiences rapid growth in enrollment, their technology must be
continuously updated to fill the growing demands of an expanding educational
environment. St. Andrew's deployed Xirrus Wi-Fi Arrays because the Xirrus
architecture delivers the performance, reliability, and future upgrades needed
for their ever-expanding student population.

Rory Chapman, IT Manager at St. Andrew's Anglican College explains one main
reason for choosing Xirrus, "I researched quite a lot of vendors and their
products and one of the big things for me in choosing Xirrus was that they were
the only company to send someone out on-site to show me the product - to set it
up in our school and give me real density and coverage results. Other vendors
provided computer based survey results that they did off our plans but I found
that having the actual people come in and do the survey on-site was a much
better benefit."

Rory continued by explaining his tests of the Xirrus system, "We set up a large
number of the laptops on one Array just to test the density and there was
absolutely no performance loss at all, even with a large number of devices on
one of the smaller four radio Arrays. We have a number of the eight radio Arrays
as well which I imagine will cope with even higher density than that. The real
test will be when we start our 1-to-1 program, but I have no qualms that the
equipment will perform as I expect Published by HT Syndication with permission
from Right Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             June 19, 1999 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

Students cling to local turf

BYLINE: Geesche Jacobsen

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1153 words


When it comes to choosing a university, students are not very adventurous,
preferring to follow their peers. Geesche Jacobsen reports.

Few students venture far afield when choosing a university, instead attending
the institution closest to home - hampering government attempts to encourage
students to "shop around" for the most suitable university.

Many even fail to cross Sydney's dividing lines: North Shore students go to
Macquarie, those in the eastern suburbs enrol at UNSW or Sydney University, and
those from Sydney's west attend UWS, new analysis of enrolment information
shows.

Unlike many other countries, Australia lacks the culture of teenagers moving
interstate to attend college, said Dr Simon Marginson, Associate Dean at the
Faculty of Education at Monash University.

"People go to the capital city that they were born in, or went to school in.
They tend to take the best university that they can get into within [a
10-kilometre radius]," Dr Marginson said.

Students follow their peer group, especially the older ones at school, and are
influenced by word of mouth and the institution's reputation.

"Peer group does have an important influence in choice of institution and the
choice of course," he said.

The mobility of Australian undergraduates was low, compared with the United
States, where universities provided accommodation for students away from home.
"Australian families hold their kids rather than send them into those places
[university residences]."

Figures about the State's more than 210,000 students show that last year nearly
two-thirds of students from Sydney's eastern suburbs attendrd either the
University of NSW or the University of Sydney, while more than 51 per cent of
students from outer

western Sydney went to the University of Western Sydney.

Almost half of all students at Macquarie University came from the lower North
Shore, the northern beaches or the Hornsby-Kuringai area.

Student activists say financial restraints are keeping students at home. The
president of the National Union of Students, Mr Jacob Varghese, said the common
youth allowance, not generally available to students under 25, needed to be more
widely available.

Despite Government calls for more comprehensive information about universities
and courses to help students choose, there is little evidence that students use
such data when deciding where to apply, said Dr Marginson.

The Federal Government argues that if students are better informed they will
make better choices, even if this means a move away from home, maybe even
interstate. More competition between universities, it is believed, would result
in better quality courses.

Increased competition aside, travel would broaden the mind of students, said the
president of the Australian Vice-Chancellors' Committee, Professor John Niland.

"I have concern about someone who goes essentially across the street or to the
next suburb between high school, university and works in the vicinity, but who
has to engage in a profession that is global," Professor Niland said.

But, he warns, until universities provide sufficient student housing, any
government incentives to increase mobility are unlikely to bear fruit.

So far there is little sign students are packing their bags. The University of
Sydney has the largest share of students from out of town with 11.2 per cent,
while only 5 per cent of students from the UWS come from outside Sydney.

The geographic "tribalism" of students is even more evident in the country.
Nearly 77 per cent of undergraduates, whose permanent home address is in the
Hunter region, were enrolled at the University of Newcastle in 1998, while more
than two-thirds of students from the Illawarra went to the University of
Wollongong.

These figures have hardly changed over the past five years, although the
University of Western Sydney, as it has become more established, appears to have
increased its share of local students in that period.

In 1994 92.8 per cent of NSW undergraduate students had their permanent home in
the State. Five years later the figure has dropped only slightly to 90.6 per
cent.

UNIVERSITY PILGRIMAGE  Where the students go

 % undergraduate enrolments in major universities by statistical division, 1998



 1.
 OUTER WESTERN SYDNEY

 SYDNEY                       11.2

 MACQUARIE                   6.3

 UTS                                 7.2

 UNSW                             4.7

 UWS                             51.4

 CHARLES STURT         10.3

 UNE                                5.2

 OTHER                            4.7



 2.
 CENTRAL WESTERN SYDNEY

 SYDNEY                    18.9

 MACQUARIE              17.4

 UTS                            16.1

 UNSW                        12.8

 UWS                           25.7

 OTHER                          9.1



 3.
  INNER WESTERN SYDNEY

 SYDNEY                   28.6

 MACQUARIE             13.2

 UTS                          19.4

 UNSW                       16.5

 UWS                         11.6

 OTHER                      10.7



 4.
  FAIRFIELD LIVERPOOL

 SYDNEY                   15.3

 MACQUARIE               6.3

 UTS                          15.9

 UNSW                        9.3

 UWS                        43.8

 OTHER                      9.4



 5.
  CANTERBURY BANKSTOWN

 SYDNEY                   23.2

 MACQUARIE               7.6

 UTS                          17.4

 UNSW                      16.3

 UWS                         25.2

 OTHER                      10.3



 6.
  OUTER SOUTH WESTERN SYDNEY

 SYDNEY                   11.3

 UTS                             6.7

 UNSW                         5.4

 UWS                         49.1

 CHARLES STURT       8.3

 WOLLONGONG        10.8

 OTHER                        8.4



 7.
  HORNSBY KU-RING-GAI

 SYDNEY                  22.1

 MACQUARIE           23.6

 UTS                         17.4

 UNSW                      17.1

 UWS                          9.3

 OTHER                    10.5



 8.
 NORTHERN BEACHES

 SYDNEY                 21.5

 MACQUARIE           21.5

 UTS                         20.9

 UNSW                     13.6

 UWS                         4.0

 CHARLES STURT     7.8

 OTHER                    10.7



 9.
 LOWER NORTHERN SYDNEY

 SYDNEY                25.4

 MACQUARIE          22.2

 UTS                        19.2

 UNSW                    17.2

 UWS                        4.7

 OTHER                   11.4



 10.
 INNER SYDNEY

 SYDNEY                32.2

 MACQUARIE            8.4

 UTS                       19.4

 UNSW                   22.5

 UWS                       6.2

 OTHER                  11.3



 11.
 EASTERN SUBURBS

 SYDNEY               25.6

 MACQUARIE           6.9

 UTS                       16.2

 UNSW                   36.7

 UWS                        3.2

 CHARLES STURT    4.1

 OTHER                     7.3



 12.
 ST GEORGE - SUTHERLAND

 SYDNEY                  20.6

 MACQUARIE              5.0

 UTS                          15.5

 UNSW                      19.5

 UWS                        11.5

 CHARLES STURT     7.4

 WOLLONGONG      14.6

 OTHER                      5.9

 Source: DETYA


LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TABLE: UNIVERSITY PILGRIMAGE Where the students go Source: DETYA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1999 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             April 18, 2010 Sunday
                                  NC14 Edition

Your news Harper honors international students

SECTION: NEIGHBOR; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 285 words


For more than 100 students, studying at Harper College this spring presents a
unique opportunity to experience American life, get a foothold in the United
States higher education system and learn about a new culture while also sharing
their own.

The international students on Harper's campus this semester represent 30
countries and bear out a national trend: Foreign students increasingly are
choosing to start their American college journeys at two-year institutions.

"International students at community college is not an oxymoron," says Eric
Bohman of Harper's English as a Second Language department, who completed his
doctorate on the subject.

"In fact, international students are really needed on campuses like ours. They
strengthen our culture as we strive to be more global, and we all benefit."

Harper honored its 105 international students at an on-campus reception this
month. The event thanked the students for choosing Harper and recognized them
for the diverse perspectives they bring to the college.

"International students greatly enrich our campus," says Jill Izumikawa,
Harper's International Student Coordinator. "They're motivated and enthusiastic,
and there's so much cross-cultural learning that goes on every day as they
encounter American students or students from countries other than their own."

Since 1999, community colleges nationally have seen a 22 percent increase in
international student enrollment. At Harper, enrollment has increased as well.
Fall 2009 enrollment was 105, up from 55 students in fall 2004.

Unlike local residents, international students' tuition is not subsidized by
taxpayers. They pay the full tuition of $407 per credit hour. Most live with
local friends or family.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Courtesy Harper College Student Chizuru Tanaka, right, from Japan
brought a guest, Hau Nguyen from Vietnam, to Harper's reception. photos Courtesy
of Harper College Student Chizuru Tanaka, right, from Japan, brought a guest,
Hau Nguyen from Vietnam, left, to Harper's reception.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              101 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             April 18, 2010 Sunday
                                  NC14 Edition

Your news Harper honors international students

SECTION: NEIGHBOR; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 285 words


For more than 100 students, studying at Harper College this spring presents a
unique opportunity to experience American life, get a foothold in the United
States higher education system and learn about a new culture while also sharing
their own.

The international students on Harper's campus this semester represent 30
countries and bear out a national trend: Foreign students increasingly are
choosing to start their American college journeys at two-year institutions.

"International students at community college is not an oxymoron," says Eric
Bohman of Harper's English as a Second Language department, who completed his
doctorate on the subject.

"In fact, international students are really needed on campuses like ours. They
strengthen our culture as we strive to be more global, and we all benefit."

Harper honored its 105 international students at an on-campus reception this
month. The event thanked the students for choosing Harper and recognized them
for the diverse perspectives they bring to the college.

"International students greatly enrich our campus," says Jill Izumikawa,
Harper's International Student Coordinator. "They're motivated and enthusiastic,
and there's so much cross-cultural learning that goes on every day as they
encounter American students or students from countries other than their own."

Since 1999, community colleges nationally have seen a 22 percent increase in
international student enrollment. At Harper, enrollment has increased as well.
Fall 2009 enrollment was 105, up from 55 students in fall 2004.

Unlike local residents, international students' tuition is not subsidized by
taxpayers. They pay the full tuition of $407 per credit hour. Most live with
local friends or family.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Courtesy Harper College Student Chizuru Tanaka, right, from Japan
brought a guest, Hau Nguyen from Vietnam, to Harper's reception. photos Courtesy
of Harper College Student Chizuru Tanaka, right, from Japan, brought a guest,
Hau Nguyen from Vietnam, left, to Harper's reception.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              102 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Trust (Abuja)

                               December 02, 2015

Five Tips for Choosing the Right Post Graduate School Programme [opinion]

BYLINE: Shola Okpadu

LENGTH: 685 words


I remember so well the confusing moments I had while trying to choose a post
graduate course and school. I had no one to guide me through and it was tough
because there are thousands of schools and courses to choose from, not to
mention the countries and writing standardized test to gain admission into
certain schools.

If I had tips on choosing the right school and course I'm pretty sure I would
have gone to a different school, country and studied a different course. Every
day and year people decide to go for their postgraduate study either home or
abroad and they do it for many reasons.

While deciding on what school or course to study two factors should come into
play and they are the academic factor and the personal and social factor.
Especially with international student, embarking on a post graduate study should
not just be limited to the academics but also the social factor which has to do
with embracing a totally different culture and way of life.

The following are helpful tips for choosing the right post graduate school:

What career do you want to eventually have?

When choosing a school or course start with the end results in mind. Think of
what you intend to achieve with that post graduate studies. Choosing a program
that matches your goals is important. Asides from getting on the Web and
researching on the careers available in your field of study, the best way to
learn about career options is from faculty members or career counselors at the
school of your choice. Although this depends on if you want to study in your
home country and if you are going abroad you can have chats via the internet
with a representative of the school.

What area do you want to specialize in?

After deciding on what career path you want, another relevant step to think of
is the area of specialization in a particular field. The opportunity that a
student has in actually getting into a grad school of choice can largely depend
on whether the applicant picks the right schools and programs, based on
particular career goals. Sometimes this 'perfect' match influences the decision
of the admission committee, no matter how studious the applicant may be.

For instance if one is thinking of pursuing a graduate program in Economics,
which has so many specialties such as econometrics, microeconomics,
macroeconomics, etc. an applicant needs to find a school that specializes in
that specific field of choice.

The school and department rating

One important thing when considering a post graduate course is the quality of
education you are going to acquire. Inquire about the school and department
rating and its professionalism in comparison with other universities departments
that offer the same course.

Paying the fees

One of the most crucial factor when considering post graduate studies especially
if you thinking of going abroad is the school fee. Universities with similar
courses do not necessarily always have the same fees or payment structures. In
some universities fees are paid in full, others ask for two installments and
some allow you pay each time a module starts. If you're going for a part-time
course and your employer will profit from your studies consider asking them to
sponsor you by paying all or a part of the fee. Also look out for grants and
bursaries, universities often offer this service. Scholarships are another means
of offsetting these payments.

Location

Ask yourself how much you are willing to spend on accommodation, my general cost
of living, or do I want a big or small city, a city that has a beach or an
historic city. Capital cities or bigger cities tend to be more expensive, for
instance London is more expensive than Basingstoke.

Deciding on taking the next step in our careers and life can sometimes be a
daunting task, but with these tips the process may just be a little bit easier.

For more information on studying abroad for your post graduate studies contact
us SCHOOL HUNTERS on (09)2915112, 0809082170 or visit us at 36 Nouakchott street
Wuse Zone 1, Abuja.

Shola Okpadu is the Group Managing Director, School Hunters Integrated Education
Marketing Communications Agency

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 997 DOCUMENTS

              San Gabriel Valley Tribune (San Gabriel Valley, CA)

                             July 31, 2004 Saturday

By Brandon Stewart

BYLINE: By Brandon Stewart HIGH school seniors graduating in 2006 now face a new
fork in the apprehensive, and often nauseating, road to college. They have to
decide if they want to take the old Scholastic Aptitude Test with verbal
analogies, or the new SAT wit

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 712 words


As I begin my last year of college, I look at those students with an empathetic
grin. If only they knew that those pre-college decisions are about as
significant as choosing pizza toppings. Getting into college is not a big deal.
It is what you do when you get there that matters.

When I took the SAT in spring 2000, I felt the same do-or-die pressure students
feel today. I took a standardized test prep course offered during summer school.
I bought a 10-pound book and did practice tests and tried to build my
vocabulary. I also took the Preliminary Scholastic Aptitude Test [PSAT] and
School and College Ability Test [SCAT].

And for all the work, I did pretty well a 1300. But the SAT is far from the end
of college entrance craziness. Unfortunately, it is only the beginning.

Next comes choosing a college and applying to it. But for students like me,
choosing a college is like choosing a spouse or a religion it has to be perfect.

Once that search pool is narrowed to about 10 schools, you send away for their
applications, 20-page monsters asking for everything from your economic status
to essays on the parliamentary procedures of Zimbabwe.

Therein awaits the second big choice for these students: choosing to apply in
the regular pool of applicants or by early action or early decision. Over 400
colleges allow students to apply early and know sooner whether or not they are
accepted. Early application may also increase chances of acceptance.

But there can be a catch. Early application plans sometimes mandate that if you
are accepted you must commit to attending that school.

Then comes the waiting. Hopefully, the excitement of senior year can make it go
by faster. But as soon as those intimidating envelopes arrive, time seems to
screech to a stop. Clutching the eight-and-a-half by 11-inch envelope, I felt as
if my entire fate was locked away inside. Fortunately for me, I could smile
after I saw my acceptance. In fact, both schools I had applied to accepted me.

Then comes the final and most gut-wrenching question: How in the world do you
pay for it?

My parents had told me from the beginning that I should apply anywhere I wanted
and leave the financial part to them. Unfortunately, they did not realize that a
price tag of $35,000 a year is really the price. They assumed I was going to get
a full ride and would only be left with fringe payments.

The reality was that my parents combined income was over $100,000 [and their
debt was close to $500,000] and we did not qualify for financial aid. So I had
to decide whether I, at the tender age of 17, wanted to take out a loan
[co-sponsored, of course] for $120,000. I had to decide if going to my dream
college was worth digging myself into a $120,000 hole.

Luckily, I wasn't that crazy.

So I scrambled into the state university, the University of Nevada [in Reno, not
UNLV], who accepted me with wide- open arms. Not only was the cost 95 percent
cheaper, I was also given scholarships that exceeded my tuition.

And after three years in northern Nevada, I wouldn't have had it any other way.

While my friends are off paying for their $120,000 bachelor's degrees, I am
being paid via full scholarships to earn mine. And when we talk, we are
surprised to find out that we are learning nearly the same information and
skills. We agree that college is not about where you go or how much you pay it
is what you make of it.

So comes the advice I have for students who will begin either preparing for the
SAT or college applications this month: Don't give yourself an ulcer.

Rather, enjoy the process. Have fun seeing how high you can score on the SAT. If
the score comes back lower than you thought it would, don't sweat it. An SAT
score does not define you or your future anymore than the color of the walls in
your bedroom.

College applications hold the same. If you don't get into the college you want
or can't find a way to pay for it, use your talents at a place you can get into
and can afford. For your talent is what will carry you through life not the name
of a school.

Brandon Stewart is studying journalism at the University of Nevada. He grew up
in El Monte and attended Arroyo High School. Contact him at
bstewart@unr.nevada.edu.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

   Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.


                              104 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Studying at Bridgend College will let you hit the heights;
FULL RANGE OF COURSES ARE AVAILABLE FROM SEPTEMBER

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 256 words


EACH year, more than 1,200 students choose to study a higher education course at
Bridgend College.

With a wide range of full and part-time foundation degrees, HNCs, HNDs,
undergraduate degrees and masters, as well as professional qualifications in a
host of vocational areas, many students are choosing to study locally, due to
work or family commitments or just because it makes great economic sense.

Students at Bridgend College benefit from smaller teaching groups, experienced
and engaging, industry-qualified staff, modern facilities and a strong support
system including pastoral care and financial advice.

At the same time, the students choosing Bridgend College have the reassurance
that their courses are validated by the colleges' partners, including the
University of Glamorgan, University of Wales Institute, Cardiff, and the
University of Wales, Newport.

Courses are also validated by professional bodies such as the CIPD, CIM and AAT.

As well as the high standard of teaching and impressive facilities available at
Bridgend College, higher education students have a great range of scholarships
and bursaries available to them. All first year, full-time higher education
students are eligible for a Bridgend College Bursary of pounds 500. In addition,
the College has five unique Bridgend College Scholarships of pounds 1,000 for
full-time students joining next month.

For more information on higher education courses at Bridgend College, visit
www.bridgend.ac.uk/he or call 01656 302 337 for late course vacancies.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ¦ Each year more than 1,200 students choose to study a higher
education course at Bridgend College

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                              June 13, 2016 Monday

'Aptitude will act as a support system to fulfil aspirations'

LENGTH: 485  words

DATELINE: HUBBALLI


HUBBALLI, June 13 -- Speakers at The Hindu EducationPlus Career Counselling
session held here on Sunday stressed the need for the students to choose their
career carefully and advised the parents not to impose their decisions on
children.


 In the 12th edition of the event conducted by The Hindu at the Bio Technology
Hall of BVB College of Engineering and Technology here, the speakers emphasised
the need for students to understand their capabilities before making a career
choice.
 Inaugurating the programme by releasing the handbook 'theNxt.step',
Superintendent of Police of Dharwad district Dhamender Kumar Meena said that
aptitude and aspirations played a key role in shaping the career of a student.
"While aspiration is one's end goal, aptitude is the support system to achieve
that goal", he said.
 However, choosing a right career after PU was a challenging task as most of the
students don't have clear idea on what course to choose and why to choose it, he
said. "Here the parents have a crucial role to play. They need not impose their
aspirations and unfinished dreams upon their children. Instead, guide and
counsel them in choosing a career that suits their interest," Mr. Meena said.
 Ameen-e-Mudassar, chief executive officer and chief career counsellor of CIGMA
INDIA too stressed the need for students to explore avenues in various fields.
"Under the changed scenario, every course has its own merit and most of them
offer attractive career opportunities and good salaries. Life will be beautiful
if one pursues a career that suited his or her interests and achieve excellence
in that field," he said.
 "It is wrong to think that only engineering and medical profession will
facilitate good earning. There were innumerable courses that offer good monitory
returns. Even traditional courses like LLB are offering amazing career
opportunities along with attractive pay packages. While the students have to go
for self assessment before choosing a course, parents have to discover their
children and guide them accordingly," Mr. Ameen-E-Mudassar said.
 Common Entrance Test coordinator G.A. Tigadi shed light on the procedures to be
followed while applying for seats under the CET, the documents to be submitted,
the process of collecting and attesting the certificates and others.
 He also briefed about the common mistakes by students and parents while
choosing a seat and gave tips on how to avoid them.
 Vasudev Parvati, coordinator, IT incubation cell, SDM College of Engineering
and Technology, and Dattatreya Bant, director, Karnataka Institute of Medical
Sciences, participated in the interaction session and cleared the doubts of the
students.
 Sponsors
 The gold sponsors for the event are AMC City Institute, Nitte Meenakshi
Institute of Technology, Presidency University and the silver sponsor is HKBK
College of Engineering. BVB College of Engineering and Technology was the venue
sponsor.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             April 19, 2010 Monday
                                  NC2 Edition

Your news Harper honors international students

SECTION: NEIGHBOR; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 338 words


For more than 100 students, studying at Harper College this spring presents a
unique opportunity: the chance to experience American life, get a foothold in
the United States higher education system and learn about a new culture while
also sharing their own.

The international students on Harper's campus this semester represent 30
countries and bear out a national trend: foreign students increasingly are
choosing to start their American college journeys at two-year institutions.

"International students at community college is not an oxymoron," says Eric
Bohman of Harper's English as a Second Language Department, who completed his
doctorate on the subject. "In fact, international students are really needed on
campuses like ours. They strengthen our culture as we strive to be more global,
and we all benefit."

Harper honored its 105 spring 2010 international students at an on-campus
reception this month. The event thanked the students for choosing Harper and
recognized them for the diverse perspectives they bring to the College.

"International students greatly enrich our campus," says Jill Izumikawa,
Harper's International Student coordinator. "They're motivated and enthusiastic,
and there's so much cross-cultural learning that goes on everyday as they
encounter American students or students from countries other than their own."

Since 1999, community colleges nationally have seen a 22 percent increase in
international student enrollment. At Harper, enrollment has increased as well;
fall 2009 enrollment was 105, up from 55 five years earlier, in fall 2004.

The reception tradition was started around that time by then international
student coordinator Jane Harris. She worked with Harper's international students
for more than two decades; the event is now named in her honor.

Unlike local residents, international students' tuition is not subsidized by
taxpayers. They pay the full tuition of $407 per credit hour. Most at Harper now
live with local friends or family.

* Send Your news to

nbrcalendar@dailyherald.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: rimmed

GRAPHIC: Courtesy Harper College Student Chizuru Tanaka, right, from Japan
brought a guest, Hau Nguyen from Vietnam, to Harper's reception. photos Courtesy
of Harper College Student Chizuru Tanaka, right, from Japan, brought a guest,
Hau Nguyen from Vietnam, left, to Harper's reception.Students Ayu Mizuno, left,
and Mika Arima, both of Japan, were among the international students honored at
Harper's event this spring. The reception included comments from Harper
President Dr. Ken Ender.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              107 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                          September 14, 2005 Wednesday

Many college graduates stay in Utah

BYLINE: Stephen Speckman Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 402 words


Although there are fewer quality jobs and salaries are comparatively lower in
this state, most Utah college graduates are choosing to stay here, according to
a report by the Utah Foundation.

The report released Tuesday shows that 71 percent of "home-grown" students who
graduate from public and private colleges in Utah are staying close to home.

"This shows that the investment in Utah higher education is a sound one," said
Amanda Covington, spokeswoman for the Utah System of Higher Education. "It's
great news that students are choosing to stay."

Utah Foundation executive director Stephen Kroes said one reason native students
stay here after graduation is to be close to family. Graduates also stay because
of Utah's recreational opportunities, "nice" communities and low cost of living,
all quality-of-life issues.

"I think we're looking very attractive," Kroes added.

Then there's the 43 percent of out-of-state students -- they often pay three
times the rate of in-state tuition -- who decide to stay upon graduation.

Why?

In other states showing increases in growth rates and the number of available
jobs, the cost of living tends to be higher, according to Kroes.

"Utah looks even more attractive as far as affordability and quality of life
go," he said.

Despite a lower cost of living here, the reasons graduates leave are mostly
economic, Kroes said.

Of the 29 percent of Utah natives who do leave after graduation, the reasons
cited in the report include fewer quality job opportunities, low wage and salary
levels and weak networks for finding jobs, which Kroes attributes to a weak
connection between graduates and alumni.

And most students who choose to pursue a post-graduate degree in areas like
dentistry, law and medicine are leaving Utah, according to the report.

To stem the flow of graduates and post-graduates who do leave, the report points
out Utah would need to foster an economy that offers more higher-paying jobs and
provide more opportunities for an advanced education.

The non-profit foundation's report is based on a survey of 2004 graduates. The
goal was to determine if Utah is experiencing a "brain drain." It also helped
answer the question of whether the state is losing money by spending state funds
on students who leave after graduating.

"We find that doesn't appear to be the case," Kroes said. "That means we're
getting a pretty big bang for our buck." E-mail: sspeckman@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                              108 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                          September 17, 2015 Thursday

'Easy' maths may ruin future career options

BYLINE: Prasad Joshi

SECTION: AURANGABAD

LENGTH: 588 words


AURANGABAD: The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary
Education (MSBSHSE) has specifically asked school principals to create awareness
among SSC students and their parents regarding the adverse impact of choosing
general mathematics in place of the traditional mathematics paper. The general
mathematics is considered a relatively easier option.

The step has been taken by the Board in the wake of mounting complaints from
students, who later rue the fact that they can neither study maths in junior
college nor enroll for polytechnic courses.

"Every year, we have been coming across a large number of complaints where
students claim that they were in the dark regarding the fallout of choosing
general mathematics. Students score high marks in the easier version of maths
and often develop a liking and confidence for further studies in maths later
on," Vandana Vahul, officiating secretary of the Aurangabad division of the
MSBSHSE said.

To address the issue, the Board authorities during a recently held meeting of
school principals stressed the need for spreading awareness among candidates
about the pros and cons of choosing general mathematics.

"We appealed to school principals to share with students, as well as their
parents, the fact that choosing the easier version would bar them from entering
maths at 10+2 level, thus automatically throwing them out of quite a few career
options of professional courses, including engineering. Also, these students
need to keep in mind that they cannot pursue polytechnic courses too with
general mathematics," Vahul said.

Board authorities said the problem actually arises when SSC students score good
marks in general mathematics. "Having a relatively lesser difficult level,
students easily score good marks in general mathematics and suddenly develop a
liking for the subject and muster confidence to pursue it further in junior
colleges. As several of these students are not properly counselled by their
respective schools, they approach us with formal complaints," Vahul said.

Introduced in March-April 2008 SSC exams, general mathematics was a solution to
relatively lower passing percentage in the subject of mathematics in board
examination. This often resulted in students becoming dropouts out of fear of
maths.

General mathematics carries two papers of 40 marks each plus weightage of 20
marks for internal assessment. The paper does not carry the Higher Order
Thinking (HOT) questions among major exclusions as compared to the traditional
maths papers.

Shantaram Pokharkar, state leader of a forum of school principals, agreed that
general mathematics was giving birth to complaints due to lack of desired
awareness. "We have come across some cases wherein students, who had earlier
chosen general mathematics, appeared for supplementary exams by taking
traditional mathematics. Those students as well as their parents complained that
they were unaware about the career options getting restricted due to opting for
general mathematics," he said.

He said schools should ideally take a written undertaking from parents, whose
wards are choosing general mathematics. "If undertakings are taken, parents and
their wards would become properly aware about consequences of choosing the
easier version," he said.

From Aurangabad division of MSBSHSE, around 4,188 students had enrolled for
general mathematics in the March-April 2015 exams. The number of such students
was 514 for supplementary exams held in July-August this year.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             March 20, 2015 Friday

'Small Works'

BYLINE: Submitted by Harper College

SECTION: NEIGHBOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 228 words


Small-scale artwork from artists across the nation is currently on display in
Harper College's 38th annual National Juried Exhibition: "Small Works," a
celebration of mini-masterpieces.

More than 170 artists submitted 550 small works for consideration to this year's
show, which runs through Thursday, April 2, in the college's Art Exhibition
Space, Building C, Room C200, on the college's main campus, 1200 W. Algonquin
Road in Palatine. The exhibit is free.

Serving as this year's juror was Allison Peters Quinn, director of exhibitions
at the Hyde Park Art Center in Chicago, where she has curated exhibitions and
produced symposiums, performances and publications since 2004.

"This exhibition highlights the work of artists who push contemporary art
forward with unique approaches to material and concepts," she said. "Choosing 24
pieces from over 500 was not an easy task, but I focused on choosing a diverse
range of work that would make a compelling exhibition for viewers."

Paintings, prints, photograph, drawings, glass and ceramics are among the media
used.

Associate Professor Jason Peot said the show is reflective of what's happening
in the broader art world. "It's a great show with a diverse mix of artists,"
Peot said. "There's really a national reach, so we get little bits of what's
happening across the country."

For details, visit harpercollege.edu/arts.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photos Courtesy of Harper College Scrambled Cubes, by William F.
Whiteside, Lincolnwood, is among the items on display in "Small Works," Harper
College's 38th annual National Juried Exhibition.Courtesy of Harper College
Nest, by Jessica Smith of Livingston, Alabama, will be on display as part of
Harper College's National Juried Exhibition, "Small Works."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              110 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                              June 29, 2014 Sunday

Choosing elective classes What does the college require? It's important to have
a balance What if your school doesn't offer a class that your child wants?
Consider interests and abilities

SECTION: REFLEJOS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 546 words


(collegeboard.org) -- Your son is a freshman in high school and gets good grades
in all core classes, so he's not supposed to have problems when choosing
electives. Well this is not necessarily so. The minimum requirements of many
schools are not rigorous enough to what many universities require, so you have
to make sure your child chooses classes that will guarantee he meets the
university's standards.

Even if it seems too early, it's convenient to meet with the academic adviser in
the first year of high school to start planning the preparation classes for
college. "You have to design your program of study before starting school to
make sure they will have enough time to complete all courses required by the
university," says Iris Schrey, an academic adviser at William Jones College Prep
in Chicago.

Specialized colleges may have specific requirements and some might be willing to
accept students who have not completed all the traditional subjects but have
gone to great lengths in their own abilities. Both you and your child can use
the student tools from College Board, such as the College Search or College
Handbook to find specific universities.

With four or five courses per semester there is not much room for more
activities. However, students should also try to take other subjects that
interest them.

"Students need to select courses each year that will challenge them," says
Marybeth Kravets, a college counselor working at Deerfield High School in
Deerfield, Illinois, and a former president of the National Association for
College Admission Counseling.

"First and what universities are most interested in is the subjects studied, but
they also like to analyze how wide and deep the experience has been during the
last high school years," says Kravets. Electives beyond the basics, such as fine
arts, music, journalism, computer programming or business can complement more
traditional courses and create a richer educational experience, Kravets says. In
fact, it's known that students who take art or acting classes usually score best
in school and on tests.

Schrey advises students to choose electives based on their passions.

If your child's school doesn't offer the classes he seeks, maybe other colleges
or universities in the same community offer it. "Taking classes in economics,
philosophy or administration at a local college allows students to find out what
college will be like," says Schrey.

Classes may also be available through the Internet or through correspondence
courses, but parents must first ensure that any course that you enroll your
child doesn't only deal with the subject, but also offers high quality teaching.
Kravets notes that the role of parents can also ensure that schools offer
quality elective courses. "Unfortunately, when you have to cut the budget,
electives are the first to be cut," says Kravets.

Some experts advise students when choosing electives to not only consider their
interests, but also to focus on their skills.

A student who is excellent in languages ??can increase their average score if
they enroll in a fourth year of French. Advisers also warn students to not
accumulate easy classes in their last year of school, because universities will
be looking at the student's ability to stay on course for four years.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              111 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                            December 24, 2006 Sunday

Make the right choice with KYUEM

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 358 words


KOLEJ Yayasan UEM places utmost importance in helping its students to gain entry
into the university of their choice.

Deciding on a university in a foreign country, where students will spend at
least three significant years of their lives, is an important task.

At KYUEM, 95 per cent or more will pursue their studies overseas upon completion
of their A-Levels in June every year.

While a majority of the students go to some of the best and most prestigious
universities in the United Kingdom, KYUEM also has a small number flying to
top-notch universities in Australia, New Zealand and the United States.

A student will have to choose from hundreds of different courses, which differ
widely in content, style and teaching method.

Without proper guidance, choosing a university overseas can be extremely
stressful.

KYUEM lightens this burden by guiding students step by step - from choosing
suitable university options to completing the application forms.

A dedicated team comprising the counsellor, residential staff, tutors and
teachers assist students in the process.

Yearly, the college alumni still studying in the UK gather for a weekend at the
college to share their experience studying and living in their respective
universities.

No description about a university or its town can be more graphic and candid
than those given by students who are already there.

Networking with international officers and admissions tutors, visiting top
universities in the UK and other countries and entertaining a large number of
university visitors are given added attention.

As a result, a large proportion of KYUEM's graduates move on to their university
of choice.

Since it's establishment in 1998, the college has had about 90 per cent success
rate in placing its students in the top 10 British universities and the Irish
Universities Medical Consortium.

The current senior batch has already made their applications through the UCAS
scheme.

Students now have a choice of choosing between enrolling in a 18-month programme
commencing next month, the 24-month programme in July or the 18-month programme,
also in July.

For details, call 03-64601234 or visit www.kyuem.edu.my

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            October 17, 2014 Friday

Renewing Health Insurance Should Take More than 15 Minutes, Specialist Says

LENGTH: 374  words


Kansas State University issued the following news release:
Consumers spend more time picking out a television than picking out health
insurance -- and that could be a costly mistake, says a Kansas State University
community health specialist.


According to a recent consumer report, people spend about 15 minutes choosing a
health insurance plan, which is significantly less than the two hours spent on
average choosing a television, said Roberta Riportella, Kansas Health Foundation
professor of community health in the College of Human Ecology. Health insurance
is one of the most expensive items we purchase in a given year. Since policies
often change from year to year, it's important to spend time considering your
options.
Because plans change annually, Riportella cautions against choosing the same
plan year after year during open enrollment without doing your homework first.
She says to pay attention to a few key items: the network of providers, the
cost-sharing amount and the deductible.
Health insurance companies negotiate deals with hospitals, doctors and
pharmacies each year, which means the network of providers can change from year
to year, Riportella said. Your doctor may take one type of insurance one year
and no longer be in that network in the second year. That's been a longtime
occurrence and has nothing to do with the health law changes. That is just the
way the insurance industry works.
While you're checking the list of providers, also look at the cost-sharing
amount, which can change from 20 percent to 25 percent any given year. Most
importantly, make sure you're choosing the type of plan that suits your needs.
Employers are now offering a very different way of insuring yourself, and those
are high-deductible plans where the employer is giving you an option to
basically pay a lot of money up front, out-of-pocket, but then max that
deductible out at a set amount, such as $2,000, Riportella said. Then you
receive complete coverage. In most cases, people would actually do well in a
high-deductible plan because they're not using a lot of health care resources in
a given year.
Because these plans are less expensive to offer, employers may put up to $1,000
in an individual's plan. 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                          September 16, 2015 Wednesday
                                  Pune Edition

GENERAL MATHSDILEMMA Easy maths may restrict career options: Board

BYLINE: Prasad.Joshi@timesgroup.com

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 543 words


The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education
(MSBSHSE) has specifically asked school principals to create awareness among SSC
students and their parents regarding the adverse impact of choosing general
mathematics in place of the traditional mathematics paper.The general
mathematics is considered a relatively easier option.

The step has been taken by the Board in the wake of mounting complaints from
students, who later rue the fact that they can neither study maths in junior
college nor enroll for polytechnic courses.

"Every year, we have been coming across a large number of complaints where
students claim that they were in the dark regarding the fallout of choosing
general mathematics.Students score high marks in the easier version of maths and
often develop a liking and confidence for further studies in maths later on,"
Vandana Vahul, officiating secretary of the Aurangabad division of the MSBSHSE
said.

To address the issue, the Board authorities during a recently held meeting of
school principals stressed the need for spreading

awareness among candidates about the pros and cons of choosing general
mathematics.

"We appealed to school principals to share with students, as well as their
parents, the fact that choosing the easier version would bar them from entering
maths at 10+2 level, thus automatically throwing them out of quite a few career
options of professional courses, including engineering. Also, these students
need to keep in mind that they cannot pursue polytechnic courses too with
general mathematics," Vahul said.

Board authorities said the problem actually arises when SSC students score good
marks in general mathematics. "Having a relatively lesser difficult level,
students easily score good marks in general mathematics and suddenly develop a
liking for the subject and muster confidence to pursue it further in junior
colleges. As several of these students are not properly counselled by their
respective schools, they approach us with formal complaints," Vahul said.

Introduced in MarchApril 2008 SSC exams, general mathematics was a solution to
relatively lower

passing percentage in the subject of mathematics in board examination. This
often resulted in students becoming dropouts out of fear of maths.

General mathematics carries two papers of 40 marks each plus weightage of 20
marks for internal assessment. The paper does not carry the Higher Order
Thinking (HOT) questions among major exclusions as compared to the traditional
maths papers.

Shantaram Pokharkar, state leader of a forum of school principals, agreed that
general mathematics was giving birth to complaints due to lack of desired
awareness. "We have come across some cases wherein students, who had earlier
chosen general mathematics, appeared for supplementary exams by taking
traditional mathematics. Those students as well as their parents complained that
they were unaware about the career options getting restricted due to opting for
general mathematics," he said.

He said schools should ideally take a written undertaking from parents, whose
wards are choosing general mathematics. "If undertakings are taken, parents and
their wards would become properly aware about consequences of choosing the
easier version," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Leicester Mercury

                            July 20, 2016 Wednesday

Life after GCSEs

SECTION: AGENCY:MEDIA; Pg. 26-27

LENGTH: 680  words


Choosing  which route to take after GCSEs is a pivotal moment in any young
person's life, and often an exciting, but daunting time.

As if choosing a  career path isn't enough, they then have a choice to make
about how they want to gain their qualification with many options available to
them.

As a parent supporting your son or daughter in choosing their next step, it can
be just as mind-boggling. If your son or daughter is finishing school, how do
you support them to make the best decision?

Tracey Forman, Group Director for Student Experience at South Leicestershire
College, describes the choices ahead/

She said:  "There are lots of options available but the next step can still be
confusing. What is certain is that a school leaver does need to plan to
undertake some sort of training - either full-time or alongside work or
volunteering. Until the age of 18, a school leaver must stay in full-time
education, for example at a school sixth form, a sixth form college or a further
education college, start an apprenticeship or traineeship, or go into work while
in part-time education. For those unsure about their next steps, there is plenty
of careers advice available.

"Here at South Leicestershire College we have a team of highly-qualified and
impartial careers advisers who can offer your son or daughter free, face-to-face
advice at any time of year.

"There are other great online tools available including the National Careers
Service website and the Plotr  website.

"For school leavers looking to pursue practical and technical qualifications or
have a certain career in mind, the full-time study programmes and
apprenticeships available at South Leicestershire College are designed to fully
prepare students who plan to go straight into employment or on to university.

"We cover a huge range of sector areas from business and administration to
engineering, construction, health and  care, media plus many more - that are
available at different levels to suit the individual.

"We also help all students gain relevant work experience, linked to their chosen
industry, giving them practical knowledge of a real working environment to
strengthen their employability. College is about much more than just your
qualification - it's about giving you the skills and experience you need to take
the first steps on a successful career."

Halema White,  18,  who studied the BTEC Extended Diploma in IT at South
Leicestershire College, said: "I chose the course because I enjoy IT  and have
really enjoyed the digital graphics element and the opportunity to work with
hardware. I've enjoyed the experience so much I have applied to do the HNC/D
course at SLC next year and I am on target to achieve the grades I need for
that. I've really grown in confidence as I didn't think I would be able to go to
study at university-level and now I will be."

The Apprenticeship option

Debbie Scotton, Business Development Manager  at the College,  said:
"Apprenticeships are another great option. Once considered the 'poor relation'
to other types of learning,  apprenticeships are now a highly respected route to
employment and university.

"Young people work towards a nationally recognised qualification while  working
as a paid employee, gaining the best of both worlds."

Tom Richings,  20, who completed a Commercial Apprenticeship with South
Leicestershire College while  working at Triumph, said: "Choosing an
apprenticeship was 100 per cent  the right decision for me.

"It has helped massively, especially in terms of developing life skills. Here at
Triumph you are given a lot of responsibility - what you do as part of your role
affects the business on a massive scale. There is nothing more important than
experience and an apprenticeship really helps you to gain that."

To find out more about full-time and apprenticeship programmes at South
Leicestershire College, or to book a session with an appointment with an
impartial careers adviser, call 0116 264 3535 or visit :

www.slcollege.ac.uk

To find out more, visit:

nationalcareersservice. direct.gov.uk/Pages/Home.aspx or www.plotr.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2017 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                 November 2017

                                CanadaSchoolCamp

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
URL: www.canadaschoolcamp.com

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   We are an education consulting company specializing in providing consulting
services to the clients in Canada and all over the world in the following
fields:   Assisting in choosing and applying to Canadian middle and a high
school (boarding or homestay); Assisting in choosing Canadian undergraduate and
or post-graduate College or University, advising about job market perspectives
for the qualified candidates; Assisting in choosing Canadian summer camp;
Assisting in choosing Canadian English learning classes for children, teens and
adults; Providing Guardianship Service for minors in Canada; Preparing Canadian
Visa Documents for clients; Panya (Praskovia) Jain is ? REGULATED IMMIGRATION
CONSULTANT with ICCRC; Education Consulting: Panya (Praskovia) Jain is IECA
Associate Member Independent Educational Consultant, OACAC (College Advising)
Member and TABS Associate Member Assisting in settling in Canada upon arrival
for study or camp.  We consult on EDUCATIONAL OPTIONS in the USA: boarding
schools, universities, colleges, Ivy League, summer programs, ESL, Test Prep,
etc. on www.americaschoolcamp.com  We have our offices in Toronto, Canada. We
are knowledgeable, mobile and customer service oriented.  If you are interested
in our services, please contact us via e-mail to panya@canadaschoolcamp.com or
SKYPE ImmigrateStudy or fill out the form in the Contacts Section and we will
provide you with the customized information and individualized service based on
your needs and requireme

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2017


                              116 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                           February 16, 2012 Thursday
                                Nuneaton Edition

TIME TO DECIDE;
Prospectus will help you choose the course that is right for you

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 271  words


CHOOSING where and which course you wish to study can be one of the most
important and difficult decisions you will have to make.

Henley College Coventry and City College Coventry have produced a joint HE and
Professional Studies Prospectus giving you the range of higher education courses
available to you to help you in making this decision.

They recognise that deciding to apply for a higher education course is a big
step and the cost of study at university makes it even more important to ensure
that you make the right choice.

By studying close to home it will probably mean that you won't have the
additional living costs and may be able to carry on working whilst studying.

Most universities in England will charge the maximum tuition fee of pounds
9,000. The tuition fees for studying at Henley College and City College for the
2012/2013 academic year are pounds 3,800 for HND programmes and HNC tuition fees
are pounds 1,900.

In addition to the benefits of the lower fees, students will be able to take
advantage of the smaller, more intimate environment that a college offers.
You'll get excellent one-to-one tuition with tutors who have a wealth of
relevant industrial and commercial experience.

By choosing to enrol on one of the courses offered at Henley College Coventry or
City College Coventry and by taking advantage of our experience and excellent
courses you will be best prepared to achieve all your educational and career
objectives.

¦ To obtain a copy of the joint prospectus contact either City College on 024
7679 1000 or Henley College on 024 7662 6444 or visit www.covcollege. ac.uk or
www.henley-cov.ac.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  June 1, 2001

More students choosing Scotland

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 313 words


There has been a higher increase in the number of students choosing to study in
Scotland than anywhere else in the United Kingdom.

The Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (Ucas) revealed that 28,077
people have applied for courses at Scottish universities this year, compared
with 27,048 in 2000.

The number represents a 3.4% increase in applications in Scotland, compared with
a rise of 0.6% in England, and falls of 3.7% in Wales and 2.4% in Northern
Ireland.

Ucas has also revealed that more students from England and Scotland are applying
for places at Scottish universities than last year. Figures also show that
Scotland is the only UK country to see an increase in the number of applications
from non-European students - up 1% in comparison with a drop of 14.7% in
England.

The National Union of Students (Scotland) welcomed the news, saying it showed
the respect people had for Scottish education.

Mandy Telford, president, said: "This is great news and only goes to prove what
people have known for years - that Scotland really does have the best education
system.

"It also shows that student funding is a major issue when it comes to choosing a
university and that is maybe why more Scots are choosing to stay in Scotland, so
they get their fees paid.

"It is therefore about time that student funding was reviewed across the country
so that everyone wanting to study will be able to do so without having to get
into huge debt."

Ms Telford said the news that Prince William had chosen a Scottish university
may also have influenced some people.

The Ucas study also showed that courses such as media studies, cinematics,
nursing and computer science were proving more popular than ever before, whereas
there had been a substantial drop in applicants for courses in primary
education, pharmacy and mechanical engineering.

LOAD-DATE: June 02, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited


                              118 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                August 14, 2002

Universities 'trust grades too much'

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 301 words


STUDENTS' A-level grades give universities and employers a distorted picture of
their ability, claims a report.

Too much trust is placed in qualifications as a guide to future performance,
according to academics at King's College, London.

Their report urges university admissions tutors to base their decisions on a
wider range of indicators of a candidate's potential.

Professors Dylan Wiliam and Paul Black who has advised the Government on
National Curriculum testing and assessment compared the A-level results of more
than 6,000 students with their eventual degree grades, finding only a 'weak
correlation' between the two figures.

'The problem is, we just don't know how accurate examination grades are for
individual students, and they are of only limited use as predictors of future
performance,' said Professor Wiliam.

The chances of an admissions tutor choosing a good student based on A-level
grades were only marginally better than even.

Professor Wiliam added: 'A tutor faced with a decision to award the last
remaining place to one of two students could just flip a coin this would give a
50-50 chance of choosing the one who would do better at university.

'By choosing the one with better A-level grades, we would improve our chances of
choosing the better student but not by much.

'Such data as there are indicates that we would pick the better student only 60
per cent of the time.

Forty per cent of the time, the student with worse A-level grades would actually
do better at university.' He said employers and admissions tutors should realise
the limitations of exam results.

The report calls for research into the reliability of A-levels after studies
conducted in the 1970s suggested the exams were only accurate to plus or minus a
grade.


LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                              119 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                           February 26, 2015 Thursday

WHY SPC IS A CHOICE FOR MANY

BYLINE: DINORAH PREVOST, Seminole High

SECTION: TBTWO; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 221 words



HIGHLIGHT: Close-by campuses and budget-friendly tuition make the local college
a winner.


As the impending doom of choosing a college looms over high school seniors, more
and more are beginning to take the less-glamorous route: going to the local
community college first. In Pinellas County, that option is St. Petersburg
College.

For many, the basic reason for going to a two-year school first: money. At SPC,
many aspects are "economically cheaper," as Seminole High senior Emma Doyle
said. But perhaps the biggest difference between a community college and a
university is in the cost of tuition.

In 2014-2015, University of South Florida tuition and fees were $6,410, while
SPC tuition and fees were just $2,635. As a result, many seniors question the
point of attending USF for their first two years of college. Add housing, books
and extras to that equation and you're pushing the financial cost to $20,000 a
year.

Imagine another scenario: a senior year of high school without the hassle of
college apps and SATs or ACTs. Think that's crazy? It's a route that some
seniors without the college competition bug take.

Instead of aspiring to attend a four-year college, even though they're great
candidates, they choose to forgo the stress of applying. One particular senior
at Seminole High has all the qualifications to apply to the University of
Central Florida but decided against it, choosing to go to SPC instead.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO - Times (2011): Students walk to class at SPC's Clearwater
campus. SPC is a state college offering associate and bachelor's degree
programs.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                August 13, 2017
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A-levels in law or business could harm chances of high-flying career

BYLINE: Harry Yorke

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 431 words


PUPILS choosing A-levels in non-core subjects such as law or business which they
intend to study at university are putting themselves at a disadvantage compared
with peers who opt for traditional courses, a study suggests. Sixth formers
planning on entering higher education often choose similar A-levels to bolster
their applications, but it appears that they would be better off choosing core
subjects such as maths, science and history.

The research, carried out by the Institute of Education, University College
London, found that the Russell Group, comprised of Britain's 24 leading
universities including Oxford and Cambridge, tend to favour students with a
grounding in the fundamentals.

The author of the study, Catherine Dilnot, found that students applying to elite
institutions in the fields of law, accounting and business were less likely to
be accepted if they studied the subject at secondary school.

Instead, the survey - which monitored the admissions outcomes of 475,000 English
students attending British universities between 2010-12 - found that leading
universities appear to prioritise those taking the sciences, maths or languages.

Mary Curnock Cook, former head of Ucas, warned earlier this year that middle
class parents had become "utilitarian" and "too fixated" with employment
post-education. In order to make the most of their schooling, Ms Curnock Cook
said that students should take up subjects that "sets your brain on fire ...
something that motivates you, that gets you really engaged with the subject".

Her comments are supported by advice distributed by the Russell Group, which
identifies a list of "facilitating subjects" that are often preferred, or
required, in order to be considered for undergraduate study.

Meanwhile, Oxford advises law applicants that whilst it accepts all A-level
subjects with the exception of General Studies, candidates should demonstrate
that they are "appropriately numerate", and for those wishing to study abroad,
they should possess a qualification in a modern language.

This is echoed by the study, which found that students taking A-level law, for
example, were more likely to attend a lower-ranked university than those who
studied subjects on the list.

Jessica Cole, head of policy at the Russell Group, said that it was of "vital"
importance" that students were given the correct advice when making choices at
A-level.

"Our advice is that if students don't know what they want to study at university
then it's a really good rule of thumb that taking two facilitating subjects will
keep a wide range of degree courses open."

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2017 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            October 10, 2017 Tuesday
                          WEB Edition; eBlast Edition

Harper College to hold annual Fall Open House on Oct. 12

BYLINE: Harper College News Bureau

SECTION: SUBMITTED CONTENT; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 354 words


Harper College will hold its annual fall Open House, offering prospective
students and families the opportunity to discover how they can move their future
forward. The event, which is for high school students and parents, will take
place from 5 to 7:30 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 12, at the Wojcik Conference Center on
the College's main campus, 1200 W. Algonquin Road in Palatine.

Attendees will learn about Harper's academic, career and student support
services; get an overview of admissions and financial aid; meet with faculty;
discover the new University Center and learn the ABCs of choosing a major.
Robert Parzy, Director of Admissions and Outreach answered a few questions about
the upcoming event. Q: What can I expect from the Fall Open House at Harper
College? A: This evening is a chance for future students to meet with Harper
faculty and staff to learn more about the college and why starting at Harper
aligns with their goals. Students can also learn about unique educational
options such as the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Engineering
Pathways program, and the apprenticeship program. Q: Should I attend the Fall
Open House if I want to go to a different college or university other than
Harper College? A: Absolutely! There are many sessions about financing your
college, choosing the right career, as well as tips for parents about college.
We would love for students to attend Harper College but it is most important
that they go to college and learn about valuable college resources. Q: Should I
attend the Fall Open House if I am a high school student interested in starting
my career right after high school graduation? A: Yes! Many students can find
employment after high school, but long-term career sustainability requires
postsecondary credentials. By attending the open house, students can speak with
many faculty and staff about this subject and why earning a credential is
essential. In addition, the Open House will feature breakout sessions for
parents and student-led campus tours. Convenient parking is located in lot 14.
To RSVP, visit harpercollege.edu/myfuture or call 847.925.6700.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A Harper College student leads high school students on a campus tour.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              122 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                           November 21, 2015 Saturday

Increased participation prompts Waubonsee to plan 2 graduations -BYLN- By Susan
Sarkauskas ssarkauskas@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 182 words


Due to increased participation, Waubonsee Community College plans to have two
graduation ceremonies next May.

And it will bring the ceremony back to its new field house on the main campus in
Sugar Grove.

"What we see are two ceremonies in our future," Melinda James, vice president of
student development, told the college's board of trustees Wednesday.

James said the number of students who want to participate has risen 10 to 15
percent a year the last few years.

It couldn't accommodate all the students, plus the relatives and friends who
wanted to attend the ceremony, and so limited participation.

At least 20 students couldn't participate this year, she said.

The last two years, the ceremony was held at the Paramount Theater, which is
near the college's downtown Aurora campus.

Splitting into two ceremonies means, however, that they will be conducted on a
Saturday due to the amount of time involved.

Past ceremonies were conducted on a weeknight.

The climate should be much better than when graduations were conducted in the
Erickson Hall gymnasium: the new field house has air conditioning.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Patrick Kunzer/pkunzer@dailyherald.com Waubonsee Community College
students enter the Erickson Hall gymnasium for the 2011 graduation ceremony. The
college moved graduation to the Paramount Theater for two years, and will bring
it back to the college's Sugar Grove campus in May. But it will have two
ceremonies, as more and more students are choosing to take part in the rite.
Patrick Kunzer/pkunzer@dailyherald.com Waubonsee Community College students
enter the Erickson Hall gymnasium for the 2011 graduation ceremony. The college
moved graduation to the Paramount Theater for two years and will bring it back
to the college's Sugar Grove campus in May. But it will have two ceremonies, as
more and more students are choosing to take part in the rite. Waubonsee
Community College students enter the Erickson Hall gymnasium for the 2011
graduation ceremony. The college moved graduation to the Paramount Theater for
two years, and will bring it back to the college's Sugar Grove campus in May.
But it will have two ceremonies, as more and more students are choosing to take
part in the rite.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              123 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             March 5, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Emotional wreck lets others do his bidding

BYLINE: RANDY RORRER - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION D; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 300  words


What did we do to deserve this? How did it come to a point where I have to
decide whether Bobby Knights or John Chaneys antics are more deplorable? Talk
about choosing the lesser of two evils.

Choosing between Knight and Chaney is like choosing which Id rather be stuck
with my buddy Ken Willis hairline or his waistline. Theres no winning here. Its
like choosing between Jason or Freddy Kruger. Its like choosing between a
catheter or an enema. Its like choosing between country or western. So take your
pick. You want Knight, the calculated bully or Chaney, the emotional
knucklehead? Both legendary coaches have put up incredible numbers. Both have
many admirable traits. They run clean programs and hold their players to high
standards and hold them accountable on the court and in the classroom. Knight
and Chaney are big on teaching their players discipline and responsibility. Its
too bad the coaches occasionally fall short in those categories. Theres not
enough room in this space to list all of Knights transgressions. Hes simply a
bully that lets his temper get the best of him too often. Chaneys list of
transgressions isnt as long as Knights, but sometimes size doesnt matter. Much
of what Knight has done in his long and storied career is reprehensible. He
picks on Puerto Rican policemen, sports writers and even his own players. One
thing Knight doesnt do, as far as I know, is send somebody to do his dirty work
for him. Chaney cant say the same thing. No matter how many times he apologizes
for his lapse in judgment, Chaney has ruined two college basketball careers his
own and that of an opposing player. If thats not bad enough, Chaney embarrassed
his own player who will always be remembered as the goon and his university.
Given the choice, Ill take the bully over the knucklehead.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Caption: When Temple coach John Chaney sent in a player to commit fouls
against St. Josephs on Feb. 22, he not only embarrassed himself and the school,
but he was indirectly responsible for a season- ending injury to a St. Josephs
player and giving his own player a reputation for being a goon.

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2005 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2005 News-Journal Corporation


                              124 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                           November 21, 2015 Saturday

Waubonsee to conduct 2 graduations

BYLINE: By Susan Sarkauskas ssarkauskas@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 184 words


Due to increased participation, Waubonsee Community College plans to have two
graduation ceremonies in May.

And it will bring the ceremony back to its new field house on the main campus in
Sugar Grove.

"What we see are two ceremonies in our future," Melinda James, vice president of
student development, told the college's board of trustees Wednesday.

James said the number of students who want to participate has risen 10 to 15
percent a year the last few years. The school couldn't accommodate all the
students, plus the relatives and friends who wanted to attend the ceremony, and
so it limited participation. At least 20 students couldn't participate this
year, she said.

The last two years, the ceremony was held at the Paramount Theater, which is
near the college's downtown Aurora campus.

Splitting into two ceremonies means, however, that they will be conducted on a
Saturday, due to the amount of time involved. Past ceremonies were conducted on
a weeknight.

The climate should be much better than when graduations were conducted in the
Erickson Hall gymnasium: the new field house has air conditioning.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Patrick Kunzer/pkunzer@dailyherald.com Waubonsee Community College
students enter the Erickson Hall gymnasium for the 2011 graduation ceremony. The
college moved graduation to the Paramount Theater for two years, and will bring
it back to the college's Sugar Grove campus in May. But it will have two
ceremonies, as more and more students are choosing to take part in the rite.
Patrick Kunzer/pkunzer@dailyherald.com Waubonsee Community College students
enter the Erickson Hall gymnasium for the 2011 graduation ceremony. The college
moved graduation to the Paramount Theater for two years and will bring it back
to the college's Sugar Grove campus in May. But it will have two ceremonies, as
more and more students are choosing to take part in the rite. Waubonsee
Community College students enter the Erickson Hall gymnasium for the 2011
graduation ceremony. The college moved graduation to the Paramount Theater for
two years, and will bring it back to the college's Sugar Grove campus in May.
But it will have two ceremonies, as more and more students are choosing to take
part in the rite.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              125 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      Sunday Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                            August 22, 1999, Sunday

OPEN DAY MAKES CHOOSING EASIER

SOURCE: QNP

SECTION: ADVERT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 222 words


Open Day makes

choosing easier

CHOOSING an educational institution for their children can be a stressful time
for many parents.

Next Saturday Clayfield College offers an opportunity for parents to discuss any
issues and more at the Open Day and Carnival.

Demonstrations, displays and information will be on offer from 10am to 1pm with
the whole school on show from Pre-School through to Year 12.

From 11.30 to 4pm join in the fun with rides, fantastic food and the Clayfield
College Music Showcase and the medieval knights' encampment and battle.

Discover Clayfield College's long term commitment to providing top class
facilities for students and to the standards for technology in all areas of the
school.

If your child is showing signs of interest in specific areas such as sport,
science or one of the arts, you may like to discuss what the curriculum allows
for and what extra-curricular opportunities are available for them.

Clayfield College offers a Christian-based education with the associated values.

There is much to consider, concerning both the education and happiness of the
child while at school and preparedness for the corporate or tertiary world.

Clayfield College staff look forward to meeting all those who need more
information about what the College has to offer.

Details on 3862 1377.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: SML

                   Copyright 1999 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              126 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                            March 24, 2005 Thursday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

POLL: NYU TOP DREAM SCHOOL

BYLINE: BY EDWARD B. COLBY and BILL HUTCHINSON DAILY NEWS WRITERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 281 words


IF ONLY IN their dreams, college student applicants across the country picked
New York University as their ideal school to get into, a new survey says.

NYU topped Harvard, Stanford, Yale, and Princeton in the annual "Dream Colleges"
ratings by Princeton Review, a test-preparation and admissions service.

"I have to admit, it was my dream college," said NYU junior Mo Wyse, 21, a
history and economics major from Seattle.

But the sprawling Greenwich Village campus, which boasts star-studded coeds like
the Olsen twins, didn't fare as well with parents.

Moms and dads put NYU 10th on the list of schools they dream of sending their
kids to, while Stanford was No. 1.

The survey quizzed 2,885 college applicants and 1,045 parents of applicants.

Why is NYU so hot? The city's falling crime rate, reduced fear of terrorism and
close proximity to the country's best would-be employers, the surveyors said.

"Over the last five to eight years, urban schools have had an incredible
renaissance with college students," said Princeton Review publisher Robert
Franek.

NYU spokesman John Beckman said being in a city that has as much to offer off
campus as on is a big draw.

"We don't pay any attention to lists," Beckman said. "The students who are
choosing NYU are also choosing New York City."

But most of the freshman applicants will never realize their dream.

Fewer than 10,000 of the 34,000 students applying to the college this year will
get in, university officials said.

For Dana Love, 22, an NYU junior majoring in journalism history, the dream is an
illusion. She said NYU turns "bright-eyed freshmen" into "hard, jaded seniors
who feel like a number in a vast bureaucracy."

whutchinson@nydailynews.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2005 Daily News, L.P.


This document could not be formatted for delivery. If your delivery request
included other documents, they completed successfully.

                              128 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            October 10, 2017 Tuesday
                                  NC3 Edition

Harper to hold open house for prospective students

BYLINE: Submitted by Harper College

SECTION: NEIGHBOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 337 words


Harper College will hold its annual fall open house, offering prospective
students and families the opportunity to discover how they can move their future
forward, from 5 to 7:30 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 12, at the Wojcik Conference Center
on the College's main campus, 1200 W. Algonquin Road in Palatine. Attendees will
learn about Harper's academic, career and student support services; get an
overview of admissions and financial aid; meet with faculty; discover the new
University Center; and learn the ABCs of choosing a major.

Robert Parzy, director of Admissions and Outreach, answered a few questions
about the upcoming event. Q: What can I expect from the fall open house at
Harper College? A: This evening is a chance for future students to meet with
Harper faculty and staff to learn more about the college and why starting at
Harper aligns with their goals. Students can also learn about unique educational
options such as the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Engineering
Pathways program and the apprenticeship program. Q: Should I attend the fall
open house if I want to go to a different college or university other than
Harper College? A: Absolutely! There are many sessions about financing your
college, choosing the right career, as well as tips for parents about college.
We would love for students to attend Harper College, but it is most important
that they go to college and learn about valuable college resources. Q: Should I
attend the fall open house if I am a high school student interested in starting
my career right after high school graduation? A: Yes! Many students can find
employment after high school, but long-term career sustainability requires
postsecondary credentials. By attending the open house, students can speak with
many faculty and staff about this subject and why earning a credential is
essential. The open house will feature breakout sessions for parents and
student-led campus tours. Parking is in lot 14. To RSVP, visit
harpercollege.edu/myfuture or call (847) 925-6700.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Courtesy of Harper College Prospective students and their parents tour
campus during the 2015 open house. Courtesy of Harper College Prospective
students and their parents tour campus during the 2015 open house.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              129 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                            December 10, 2006 Sunday

KYUEM guides students to the right university

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 519 words


KOLEJ Yayasan UEM places utmost importance on helping its students gain entry
into the university of their choice.

At KYUEM, 95 per cent or more will pursue their studies overseas upon completion
of their A-levels in June.

While a majority go to some of the best and most prestigious universities in the
United Kingdom and Ireland, KYUEM also has a small number flying to top-notch
universities in Australia, New Zealand and the United States.

A student can choose from hundreds of different courses, which differ widely in
content, style and teaching methods at each university.

It may be tempting to apply to the best universities but it is important also to
consider certain practical issues.

London, for example, is an exciting city, but also an expensive one.

Most universities, however, provide accommodation for international students,
for the first year, at least.

Without proper guidance, choosing a university overseas can be extremely
stressful.

KYUEM lightens this burden by guiding students step by step, from choosing a
suitable university to completing the application forms.

Presentations, workshops and mock interviews are organised to help students.

Special attention is given to interview techniques for those applying to read
medicine and for universities like Oxford and Cambridge, where the interview is
a compulsory part of the selection process.

More than 70 students from KYUEM applied for places in medical schools in the UK
last September.

As a part of their preparatory work, students made presentations and discussed
in small groups various medical issues from the ethical, legal, religious and
other perspectives.

Practising doctors and academics are regularly invited to these forums.

Students gain a great deal from discussing and reading materials beyond the
textbook. Some are lucky enough to get first-hand information from senior
academics and university admissions tutors from Oxford, Cambridge, Imperial
College, University of Newcastle, University College London and London School of
Economics who visit the college regularly.

Students at KYUEM are also strongly encouraged to undertake work attachments
during semester breaks and participate in the various sports clubs and
societies.

This adds to the richness of the students' experience at KYUEM and forms an
ideal preparation for entry to top universities.

A number of KYUEM's graduates move on to the university of their choice.

This is illustrated by the college's successful Cambridge and Oxford entries.

This year has seen the college breaking its previous record as eight KYUEM
students were admitted into Oxbridge colleges in September.

Since its establishment in 1998, the college has had about 90 per cent success
rate in placing students in the top 10 UK universities and the Irish
Universities Medical Consortium.

The current senior batch has already made their applications through the UCAS
scheme.

Students now have a choice of choosing between enrolling in an 18-month
programme commencing next month, the 24-month programme in July or the 18-month
programme in July.

For further information, call 03-64601234 or visit www.kyuem.edu.my

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                              June 26, 2016 Sunday

After crossing Iron Gate: Pursue courses of your interest

BYLINE: Himalayan News Service

LENGTH: 2762  words


* When you get a first division, family suggests us to study science. If you
score less, it is management and other subjects. Now scoring first division
doesn't seem to be such a big deal but choosing a subject seems to be the big
decision. I am an engineer. I studied science as I wanted to be a doctor which
later changed into engineering. Now I want to be an entrepreneur, which requires
a lot of management skills which I can learn myself. In fact, it doesn't require
any certificate to be an entrepreneur. You are your own boss. In a nutshell,
choose your subject wisely but your tastes change as you grow older. Keep a
place to adopt all those changes. Meet different people who are experienced in
their fields and ask them about their job and scope of the subjects. And pursue
things that help you to be what you want to be.

- Madhab Acharya, Ghattekulo, Maitidevi

* Everyone of us is aware of the transition from Class X to Class XI. Class XI
is tougher than Class XII. This phase of dilemma must be a subject of
discussion. And before choosing subjects, one must think about his/her interest
and monetary issues. If you are good at problem solving and mechanical analysis,
join Physics. Again if you love nature and its elements, join Biology. If you
chose subjects forced by parents or lured by colleges, it is certain your A+
will be converted to C.

- Pritam Basnet

* It may be quite perplexing for any student who are on the course of pursuing
higher education after the completion of SLC. In our society, there's a general
tendency that students with better percentage or good grades must enrol in the
Science faculty regardless of their internal potential to excel in some other
field of their interest. I would like to suggest aspiring students who have just
crossed 'The Iron Gate' to just recognise themselves and enrol in the faculty of
their interest. Since, this is the most critical stage of anyone's life, one
needs to be quite sensible, tactful and have a far-sighted vision in order to
live a meaningful life. You just need to listen to your heart and excel in the
field you are good in. Always focus on your strengths and move on accordingly.
There may be many guardians to guide and mentor you. But, it is only you who is
responsible for your decisions. After all, the life is yours

- Sanjog Karki, Tansen-6, Basantapur, Palpa

* It is not always easy to follow a desirable career path; however, I suggest
that one should try his/her best to pursue a career of one's choice in spite of
all odds that one may encounter in life. One could be successful if one can
integrate his/her natural talents, inclinations and interests together towards
designing a successful career. The first step towards achieving that goal is to
pick the subjects necessary to follow a desired career destination. For that one
has to rely on his/her gut feelings, experiences and review his/her past
successes and interests diligently. Not everyone can be good in science or
commerce; one must not consider that to be a loss or misfortune, but instead
look into his/her inner self to realise what is more close to his/her individual
choices or liking. One should consult parents, teachers, peers and friends to
understand and discover individual's strengths and weaknesses; and then after
comprehensive review decide to choose the subjects to follow the desirable
career destination rather than a random choice with no thoughts behind it. One
also needs to review the grades/marks received and have a realistic career goal
to match an individual's ability, interest, academic strength and career
objectives. Career counselling centres could also be a good stop over. In short
it is importantto be open and vigilant; and follow one's inner instinct to
select suitable subjects suitable for pursuing a desirable career.

- Saikat Kumar Basu

* The SLC result has come out and the grading system has come into use to make
sure that students will be able to study subjects according to the grade they
obtain. Due to this, they won't be able to study subjects which they want to. In
this condition, proper counselling would come in handy. It would help them
decide which subject they need to choose in order to make them become the person
they rightly want to be in their life. No matter whether any student is
brilliant, average or dull, counselling is highly required in order to shape
them career. Besides, students should be guided by their parents, teachers and
even their relatives when it comes to choosing the subject which will be useful
for them. The other thing is that they should also be thoughtful, logical and
careful when it comes to deciding which subject really suits them the best.

- Pratik Shrestha, Buddhanagar, Baneshwor

* Even though students after their SLC examination think that they are mature
and know everything about what to do and what not to do, they are still
teenagers and need guidance from their parents, teachers and elders. Parents are
responsible for what their children will be. They know their children better
than any other person. After SLC, students are not mature enough to decide which
subjects to choose and which college to go, besides their own interest. They
could be influenced by friends or advertisements of colleges. Even their own
interests sometimes is based on their friends or others. So parents and teachers
must guide the students as per his/her behaviour, capacity and interest. As such
students should take up subjects in which they can give their best. Meanwhile,
in selecting college, parents have to be wise as well. Attractive advertisements
do not mean quality education. Parents and students should together visit
colleges while students should be a part of orientation classes provided by
different colleges to evaluate them and make an informed decision. Meanwhile,
expensive colleges don't mean quality education. To join an educational
institution, we should make sure whether our subjects are available in that
institution or not. Moreover, one's economic condition as well as the reputation
of a college should be taken into consideration.

- Himanshu Jha, Lalitpur

* The SLC result is out, and those who have passed the 'Iron Gate' are now
preparing to pursue their higher education. These students are at the most
crucial time with all their confusion in choosing suitable subjects for them.
For this, they must know their subjects in which they can excel in the future.
They need to know their capabilities and creativity so that they can chose
subjects accordingly. Choosing the right subjects is highly recommended for
students because if they choose the wrong subjects, then it is going to be a big
obstacle in their future. For their bright and successful future, their skill in
particular subjects play major role in their life.

- Sabina Sharma, Maitighar

* Choosing a subject that perfectly fits the student's field of interest is not
as easy as choosing clothes. There is no hard and fast rule to select the
subjects. Field of interest or subject of interest is not a matter to be
discussed with anyone. I think that interest is an abstract thing and it comes
automatically within the heart of the student. There will be no reason why a
student chooses a particular subject. Because it is his heart that tells him/her
to choose a particular subject in which he can surpass. However, things are
different in Nepali society. For example a student with GPA of four is without a
doubt a Science student in Nepal regardless of his interest in different areas.
Can't toppers be students of humanitiesor management? Can't toppers be bankers
and business-persons? Can't a student with good GPA in Mathematics and Science
and poor GPA in others be a doctors and engineers? In my opinion, the choice of
subject should be made by the student alonewithout any family pressure and that
will be the best choice for everystudent to get success in any levelof
education.

- Anonymous

* Your life actually starts to take some direction after SLC. And it's obviously
you who can choose which direction to follow. Before choosing any subject, do
spend your time listening to all those experienced people. However pursue what
your heart says. Get as much as idea you can about that dream you have in your
mind. Do the research and learn every perspective about the subject you are
willing to seek.Talking about the educational institution choose a place where
you can enhance your educational background and simultaneously widen your
co-curricular horizon. Those two years in college are the best time you can
spend to groom yourself, so don't just rush into any institution blindly by
looking at their huge designed buildings or highly promised advertisements. Take
your time to know about the teachers and the institution's academic past. Well,
the future you want is all in your hands. This is the time when you are about to
open the first door towards your dreams. So don't you ever let your grades or
the society decide anything for you. Just believe in your dreams and have the
courage to follow them. Best of luck to you all!!

- Anonymous

* I took my SLC back in 2064 BS, at the time there were only few options on my
hand. Many of my elders and seniors were studying management, arts and science.
There was a belief in people that it will be good to study further, on the basis
of percentage gained in SLC. There was a trend for students who scored
distinction to study science while people with first division studied management
and the rest would study arts. But don't worry if you did not perform well in
the SLC exam because it is just a number and it will not affect your future
rather it is just a certificate which will be required to enrol to higher
education in which you might get some scholarship based on your grades.I was an
average student and took bridge course of management for its entrance test of +2
level. I would like to suggest the SLC graduates not to be in dilemma. I know it
is the biggest headache to choose subjects and institutions for your further
study. Family members might pressurise some students or some student might
follow his/her friends and some might also take their own decision. But one has
to do research on the subjects/he is taking. Another difficult taskis to search
for college. Hence Iwould suggest you to visit to at least five to 10 different
colleges for counselling and then finally enrol to the best college.

- Saksham Shrestha, Wellesley, Massachusetts, US

* The most important thing that one should consider at first is their field of
interest. But how are they going to find it? His/her field of interest is that
in which s/he is doing well in school. Besides, proper counselling and
orientation from seniors and teachers are also important to make an informed
decision for higher education. If one isn't sure what s/he is going to do after
+2/A-levels, I recommend them to join +2 and study science if they think they
can succeed in it, because most of the doors get unlocked from here. However,
I'd like to remind everyone that joining science faculty, or management, or even
A-levels isn't compulsion just because your SLC grades are attractive. There are
more options like humanities, education, and also technical education and
vocational training!

- Surendra Karki

* We have the tradition of believing SLC as a foundation of education. Hence,
right after passing their "Iron Gate" most of the people's first question would
be what they are going to study? Majority of students know what they are going
to study. But some of them are confused regarding their future path and to those
students who cannot decide their career goal, the first thing I would strongly
suggest them is to know their potential, capabilities, their interest area,
their hidden skills and talents. And second thing is that they must be
physically, mentally and financially capable for the subject they are going to
study. While deciding to join an educational institution, one need to choose
college according to the subject they are going to study. Moreover, they need to
study about college's past performance, scholarship programmes offered by the
college, its physical infrastructure, extra activities and their teaching
techniques.

- Shristi Kayastha, Bhaktapur

* Before joining any educational institution, one should be very careful and one
should not judge a book by its cover. Similarly, one shouldn't be enticed to
join a college by just getting attached to its name and fame because nowadays
most of the students merely talk about a college which is more expensive,
standard and popular. Instead one should look for the one which provides good
quality of education and facility et cetera to the students. Also, these days
lot of schools and colleges are increasingly being established. It has become
sort of competition to found educational institutions for the sake of money. So,
it is not necessary that every educational institution can satisfy one by
providing good education. So, one should be careful and consider many things
before joining an educational institution.

- Nurbu, Kopan Monastery

* Students need to be clear which subject is easy to them and the subject chosen
by them will be right in their future or not. Most of the parents force their
children to choose science so that they will become doctor and engineer in the
future but they don't ask their children what they want to study and what they
want to become in future. I have seen lots of students dropping college because
they are not able to study the subjects they chose as some were forced by their
parents while others had followed their friends instead of thinking by
themselves what is good for them.In our Nepali society, people think that those
students who study management and humanities are the weak students and they are
dominated by the society. So the students hesitate to study them but the society
don't think that all students don't want to become doctor or engineer and they
would want to be something different and unique. Instead of forcing children,
parents should know what their children want to be and should guide them.
Freedom should be given to the students to choose their favourite subjects.

- Sonika Lamichhane

* Before joining an educational institution, the students have to find out their
interest area and where they want to go. Management, science, humanity and A
level are main fields to read and these all are creating confusion to them. As a
student of bachelor's level, I suggest them to go to the well known colleges
which have both fame and an excellent education system. These colleges motivate
and provide scholarship to hardworking students. Yes, they attract through
physical infrastructure and create confusion to students which way to go. So in
this situation, students should wisely step forward and take help of elders,
read newspapers where the colleges are ranking by their educational
achievements. It is just the beginning of new life that directs towards the
future.

- Anonymous

* It's very hard for one to decide which subject to study after successfully
passing the SLC examination. In the recent time, there has been so much of
development in the educational sector where we can see lots of new courses which
are being offered where a student can explore themselves according to their
choice of study. But sometimes students do get confused in choosing the right
subject they want to study as there are many options available around them.I
already knew what I wanted to study after SLC. Having interest in the subject
like English literature, I was sure that I was going to join humanities after I
was done with SLC. I did like I had thought and humanities also has other
subjects like sociology, mass communication and journalism for my liking.
Basically I was keen in learning the new subjects exploring myself and I think I
made a right decision in my life by choosing the subject which I have interest
in learning. Therefore, while choosing a subject one should at first know about
their interest where they want to explore themselves in future. Getting
influenced by others and choosing the subject under pressure of someone from the
family in which you are not interested will ruin your life. So one should make a
right decision now and not regret later. One should also make a wise decision
while joining a college by looking at all the different aspects that a college
offers - studying environment, the faculty, the courses it offers and quality of
education. You should go for something which is best for you and your future.

- Tejaswi Pahari, Jawalakhel.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 14, 2002

Exam grades 'unreliable in indicating ability'

BYLINE: Will Woodward Education editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 465 words


Exam results are so unreliable as indicators of student ability and performance
that universities would almost be better off flipping a coin to choose between
applicants, according to a study today.

Dylan Wiliam and Paul Black, professors at King's college, London, offer a new
perspective amid the annual eve of A-levels debate on whether exams are getting
easier. "If you get bad grades at A-level, it doesn't mean you can't benefit
from university. If you get good grades, it doesn't guarantee you an easy
passage," Prof Wiliam said.

"Whether standards are going up or down is not the issue - standards have been
broadly maintained. The problem is that we don't know how accurate examination
grades are for individual students, and they are of only limited use as
predictors of future performance.

"For example, a university admissions tutor faced with a decision to award the
last remaining place to one of two students could flip a coin - this would give
a 50/50 chance of choosing the one who would do better at university. By
choosing the one with better A-level grades, we would improve our chances of
choosing the better student, but not by much."

The professors compared the degree and A-level results of students at King's,
and their findings tallied with previous research by the higher education
statistics agency. "Such data as there are indicates that we would pick the
better student only 60% of the time - 40% of the time, the student with worse
A-level grades would do better at university," said Prof Wiliam.

The study, Standards in Public Examinations, said that achievement in schools
was "almost certainly rising", though it acknowledged some of this could be
because of teaching to the test. Average IQ in Britain was 27 points higher than
at the end of the war. But examination results "cannot be taken at face value".

Prof Wiliam said there were three reasons why exams could give a misleading
impression: errors by markers, which were "negligible", though higher for arts
and humanities than science subjects; student inconsistency, which meant they
would perform better on some days; and the biggest problem - that exam papers
tested only a tiny proportion of the knowledge learned. Exam papers changed year
to year, some would be easier than others, and a grade A in one subject might be
different from a grade A in another.

"The proportions of candidates awarded the 'wrong' grade on any one issue are
not known," the academics said. "It is surprising that there are no serious
attempts to research the effects of error in public exams. If this were to be
done, it seems the resulting probability of mis-grading would be large enough to
cause some public concern."

More on A levels at EducationGuardian.co.uk/ alevels2002


LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              132 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            November 26, 2012 Monday

Girls go for college reputation, boys want canteen: Survey

BYLINE: Kanchan Srivastava

LENGTH: 323  words


A recent survey conducted among college students in Mumbai revealed that when it
comes to choosing a college, boys want a good canteen while girls care more
about the reputation of the college.

In the survey, 70.9% girls admitted that the name and reputation of the college
is 'very important' while taking admission. Only 60.9% boys felt the same.
However, 57% boys said that the canteen was 'very important'.

The survey found that parents have a major say in deciding their child's
college. Parents chose the college for 63.6% girls and 57.6% boys who took part
in the survey. Campus placement, good faculty, infrastructure, WiFi are some
other factors which the youth look out for while choosing a college. Only 30%
students gave importance to discipline.

The survey was conducted among 300 bachelor of management studies' students from
various colleges in Mumbai by TP Madhu Nair, principal of Nirmala Memorial
Foundation College, Kandivli, and assistant professor Poonam Kakkad to
understand the young mindset and their needs in order to find out how
educational institutions can update themselves as per the need of 'customers'.

"Girls mature faster than boys and tend to be more serious about academics.
Canteen and other hangout places are more important for boys," said Minnu
Bhonsle, a  psychologist. This study was part of a research paper called
'Employer Branding - A Competitive Advantage for Educational Institutions in
Mumbai' which insists that colleges don't provide value education. "Colleges
must invest in infrastructure, WiFi, dynamic library, tech-savvy teachers to
satisfy their 'customers'," said Kakkad.

The study also says that high scorers gave importance to good teachers and
attendance. However, extra-curricular activities is the deciding factor for
second division and barely passed students. Just one in four students with 75%
and above marks gave importance to cultural festivals.

kanchan.srivastava@dnaindia.net

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2012 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              European Union News

                           February 1, 2017 Wednesday

Coventry University now ranked the UK's third largest for annual student intake
- UCAS figures today

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: New York



 Coventry: Coventry University of United Kingdom has issued the following news
release:



 Record numbers of students accepted places at Coventry University last year
placing it in the top three largest and fastest growing institutions in the UK,
UCAS figures reveal today.





 The numbers of people choosing to study with Coventry rose by eight per cent in
2016, meaning that 8,130 people accepted places on full-time undergraduate
degrees across the University Group, which includes campuses in London and
Scarborough.



 The university is the second largest in terms of growth, with numbers
increasing by 50 per cent since 2011, according to figures from UCAS, which
detail acceptances to over 280 universities.



 Outright, Coventry is the third largest in the UK for annual full time
acceptances.



 The number of EU students choosing undergraduate courses at the university
through UCAS grew by 36 per cent - to 1,220 accepted applicants last year.



 The data show Coventry drawing students from across the country, with London
the second biggest feeder area, supplying more than one in five of the
university's student intake last year.



 More West Midlands students than ever before are choosing Coventry. The six per
cent increase shows the university delivering on a commitment to support the
regional skills agenda of West Midlands Combined Universities, and providing the
qualified graduates local employers need.



 Professor John Latham, Vice-Chancellor of Coventry University, said:



     I'm proud we've become one of the most successful and attractive
universities in the UK, without losing our special character and reputation for
excellent teaching, preparing students for careers and offering international
experiences across all of our courses."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com





LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              European Union News

                           February 1, 2017 Wednesday

Coventry University now ranked the UK's third largest for annual student intake
- UCAS figures today

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: New York



 Coventry: Coventry University of United Kingdom has issued the following news
release:



 Record numbers of students accepted places at Coventry University last year
placing it in the top three largest and fastest growing institutions in the UK,
UCAS figures reveal today.





 The numbers of people choosing to study with Coventry rose by eight per cent in
2016, meaning that 8,130 people accepted places on full-time undergraduate
degrees across the University Group, which includes campuses in London and
Scarborough.



 The university is the second largest in terms of growth, with numbers
increasing by 50 per cent since 2011, according to figures from UCAS, which
detail acceptances to over 280 universities.



 Outright, Coventry is the third largest in the UK for annual full time
acceptances.



 The number of EU students choosing undergraduate courses at the university
through UCAS grew by 36 per cent - to 1,220 accepted applicants last year.



 The data show Coventry drawing students from across the country, with London
the second biggest feeder area, supplying more than one in five of the
university's student intake last year.



 More West Midlands students than ever before are choosing Coventry. The six per
cent increase shows the university delivering on a commitment to support the
regional skills agenda of West Midlands Combined Universities, and providing the
qualified graduates local employers need.



 Professor John Latham, Vice-Chancellor of Coventry University, said:



     I'm proud we've become one of the most successful and attractive
universities in the UK, without losing our special character and reputation for
excellent teaching, preparing students for careers and offering international
experiences across all of our courses."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com





LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              European Union News

                           February 1, 2017 Wednesday

Coventry University now ranked the UK's third largest for annual student intake
- UCAS figures today

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: New York



 Coventry: Coventry University of United Kingdom has issued the following news
release:



 Record numbers of students accepted places at Coventry University last year
placing it in the top three largest and fastest growing institutions in the UK,
UCAS figures reveal today.





 The numbers of people choosing to study with Coventry rose by eight per cent in
2016, meaning that 8,130 people accepted places on full-time undergraduate
degrees across the University Group, which includes campuses in London and
Scarborough.



 The university is the second largest in terms of growth, with numbers
increasing by 50 per cent since 2011, according to figures from UCAS, which
detail acceptances to over 280 universities.



 Outright, Coventry is the third largest in the UK for annual full time
acceptances.



 The number of EU students choosing undergraduate courses at the university
through UCAS grew by 36 per cent - to 1,220 accepted applicants last year.



 The data show Coventry drawing students from across the country, with London
the second biggest feeder area, supplying more than one in five of the
university's student intake last year.



 More West Midlands students than ever before are choosing Coventry. The six per
cent increase shows the university delivering on a commitment to support the
regional skills agenda of West Midlands Combined Universities, and providing the
qualified graduates local employers need.



 Professor John Latham, Vice-Chancellor of Coventry University, said:



     I'm proud we've become one of the most successful and attractive
universities in the UK, without losing our special character and reputation for
excellent teaching, preparing students for careers and offering international
experiences across all of our courses."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com





LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              European Union News

                            January 31, 2017 Tuesday

Coventry University now ranked the UK's third largest for annual student intake
- UCAS figures today

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: New York



 Coventry: Coventry University of United Kingdom has issued the following news
release:



 Record numbers of students accepted places at Coventry University last year
placing it in the top three largest and fastest growing institutions in the UK,
UCAS figures reveal today.





 The numbers of people choosing to study with Coventry rose by eight per cent in
2016, meaning that 8,130 people accepted places on full-time undergraduate
degrees across the University Group, which includes campuses in London and
Scarborough.



 The university is the second largest in terms of growth, with numbers
increasing by 50 per cent since 2011, according to figures from UCAS, which
detail acceptances to over 280 universities.



 Outright, Coventry is the third largest in the UK for annual full time
acceptances.



 The number of EU students choosing undergraduate courses at the university
through UCAS grew by 36 per cent - to 1,220 accepted applicants last year.



 The data show Coventry drawing students from across the country, with London
the second biggest feeder area, supplying more than one in five of the
university's student intake last year.



 More West Midlands students than ever before are choosing Coventry. The six per
cent increase shows the university delivering on a commitment to support the
regional skills agenda of West Midlands Combined Universities, and providing the
qualified graduates local employers need.



 Professor John Latham, Vice-Chancellor of Coventry University, said:



     I'm proud we've become one of the most successful and attractive
universities in the UK, without losing our special character and reputation for
excellent teaching, preparing students for careers and offering international
experiences across all of our courses."







 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com





LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              European Union News

                            January 31, 2017 Tuesday

Coventry University now ranked the UK's third largest for annual student intake
- UCAS figures today

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: New York



 Coventry: Coventry University of United Kingdom has issued the following news
release:



 Record numbers of students accepted places at Coventry University last year
placing it in the top three largest and fastest growing institutions in the UK,
UCAS figures reveal today.





 The numbers of people choosing to study with Coventry rose by eight per cent in
2016, meaning that 8,130 people accepted places on full-time undergraduate
degrees across the University Group, which includes campuses in London and
Scarborough.



 The university is the second largest in terms of growth, with numbers
increasing by 50 per cent since 2011, according to figures from UCAS, which
detail acceptances to over 280 universities.



 Outright, Coventry is the third largest in the UK for annual full time
acceptances.



 The number of EU students choosing undergraduate courses at the university
through UCAS grew by 36 per cent - to 1,220 accepted applicants last year.



 The data show Coventry drawing students from across the country, with London
the second biggest feeder area, supplying more than one in five of the
university's student intake last year.



 More West Midlands students than ever before are choosing Coventry. The six per
cent increase shows the university delivering on a commitment to support the
regional skills agenda of West Midlands Combined Universities, and providing the
qualified graduates local employers need.



 Professor John Latham, Vice-Chancellor of Coventry University, said:



     I'm proud we've become one of the most successful and attractive
universities in the UK, without losing our special character and reputation for
excellent teaching, preparing students for careers and offering international
experiences across all of our courses."







 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com





LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              European Union News

                            January 31, 2017 Tuesday

Coventry University now ranked the UK's third largest for annual student intake
- UCAS figures today

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: New York



 Coventry: Coventry University of United Kingdom has issued the following news
release:



 Record numbers of students accepted places at Coventry University last year
placing it in the top three largest and fastest growing institutions in the UK,
UCAS figures reveal today.





 The numbers of people choosing to study with Coventry rose by eight per cent in
2016, meaning that 8,130 people accepted places on full-time undergraduate
degrees across the University Group, which includes campuses in London and
Scarborough.



 The university is the second largest in terms of growth, with numbers
increasing by 50 per cent since 2011, according to figures from UCAS, which
detail acceptances to over 280 universities.



 Outright, Coventry is the third largest in the UK for annual full time
acceptances.



 The number of EU students choosing undergraduate courses at the university
through UCAS grew by 36 per cent - to 1,220 accepted applicants last year.



 The data show Coventry drawing students from across the country, with London
the second biggest feeder area, supplying more than one in five of the
university's student intake last year.



 More West Midlands students than ever before are choosing Coventry. The six per
cent increase shows the university delivering on a commitment to support the
regional skills agenda of West Midlands Combined Universities, and providing the
qualified graduates local employers need.



 Professor John Latham, Vice-Chancellor of Coventry University, said:



     I'm proud we've become one of the most successful and attractive
universities in the UK, without losing our special character and reputation for
excellent teaching, preparing students for careers and offering international
experiences across all of our courses."







 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com





LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              European Union News

                            January 30, 2017 Monday

Coventry University now ranked the UK's third largest for annual student intake
- UCAS figures today

LENGTH: 313 words

DATELINE: New York



 Cranfield: Cranfield University of United Kingdom has issued the following news
release:



 Record numbers of students accepted places at Coventry University last year
placing it in the top three largest and fastest growing institutions in the UK,
UCAS figures reveal today.





 The numbers of people choosing to study with Coventry rose by eight per cent in
2016, meaning that 8,130 people accepted places on full-time undergraduate
degrees across the University Group, which includes campuses in London and
Scarborough.



 The university is the second largest in terms of growth, with numbers
increasing by 50 per cent since 2011, according to figures from UCAS, which
detail acceptances to over 280 universities.



 Outright, Coventry is the third largest in the UK for annual full time
acceptances.



 The number of EU students choosing undergraduate courses at the university
through UCAS grew by 36 per cent - to 1,220 accepted applicants last year.



 The data show Coventry drawing students from across the country, with London
the second biggest feeder area, supplying more than one in five of the
university's student intake last year.



 More West Midlands students than ever before are choosing Coventry. The six per
cent increase shows the university delivering on a commitment to support the
regional skills agenda of West Midlands Combined Universities, and providing the
qualified graduates local employers need.



 Professor John Latham, Vice-Chancellor of Coventry University, said:



     I'm proud we've become one of the most successful and attractive
universities in the UK, without losing our special character and reputation for
excellent teaching, preparing students for careers and offering international
experiences across all of our courses."







 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com





LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              European Union News

                            January 30, 2017 Monday

Coventry University now ranked the UK's third largest for annual student intake
- UCAS figures today

LENGTH: 313 words

DATELINE: New York



 Cranfield: Cranfield University of United Kingdom has issued the following news
release:



 Record numbers of students accepted places at Coventry University last year
placing it in the top three largest and fastest growing institutions in the UK,
UCAS figures reveal today.





 The numbers of people choosing to study with Coventry rose by eight per cent in
2016, meaning that 8,130 people accepted places on full-time undergraduate
degrees across the University Group, which includes campuses in London and
Scarborough.



 The university is the second largest in terms of growth, with numbers
increasing by 50 per cent since 2011, according to figures from UCAS, which
detail acceptances to over 280 universities.



 Outright, Coventry is the third largest in the UK for annual full time
acceptances.



 The number of EU students choosing undergraduate courses at the university
through UCAS grew by 36 per cent - to 1,220 accepted applicants last year.



 The data show Coventry drawing students from across the country, with London
the second biggest feeder area, supplying more than one in five of the
university's student intake last year.



 More West Midlands students than ever before are choosing Coventry. The six per
cent increase shows the university delivering on a commitment to support the
regional skills agenda of West Midlands Combined Universities, and providing the
qualified graduates local employers need.



 Professor John Latham, Vice-Chancellor of Coventry University, said:



     I'm proud we've become one of the most successful and attractive
universities in the UK, without losing our special character and reputation for
excellent teaching, preparing students for careers and offering international
experiences across all of our courses."







 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com





LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              European Union News

                            January 27, 2017 Friday

Coventry University now ranked the UK's third largest for annual student intake
- UCAS figures today

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: New York



 Coventry: Coventry University of United Kingdom has issued the following news
release:



 Record numbers of students accepted places at Coventry University last year
placing it in the top three largest and fastest growing institutions in the UK,
UCAS figures reveal today.





 The numbers of people choosing to study with Coventry rose by eight per cent in
2016, meaning that 8,130 people accepted places on full-time undergraduate
degrees across the University Group, which includes campuses in London and
Scarborough.



 The university is the second largest in terms of growth, with numbers
increasing by 50 per cent since 2011, according to figures from UCAS, which
detail acceptances to over 280 universities.



 Outright, Coventry is the third largest in the UK for annual full time
acceptances.



 The number of EU students choosing undergraduate courses at the university
through UCAS grew by 36 per cent - to 1,220 accepted applicants last year.



 The data show Coventry drawing students from across the country, with London
the second biggest feeder area, supplying more than one in five of the
university's student intake last year.



 More West Midlands students than ever before are choosing Coventry. The six per
cent increase shows the university delivering on a commitment to support the
regional skills agenda of West Midlands Combined Universities, and providing the
qualified graduates local employers need.



 Professor John Latham, Vice-Chancellor of Coventry University, said:



     I'm proud we've become one of the most successful and attractive
universities in the UK, without losing our special character and reputation for
excellent teaching, preparing students for careers and offering international
experiences across all of our courses."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com





LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              European Union News

                            January 27, 2017 Friday

Coventry University now ranked the UK's third largest for annual student intake
- UCAS figures today

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: New York



 Coventry: Coventry University of United Kingdom has issued the following news
release:



 Record numbers of students accepted places at Coventry University last year
placing it in the top three largest and fastest growing institutions in the UK,
UCAS figures reveal today.





 The numbers of people choosing to study with Coventry rose by eight per cent in
2016, meaning that 8,130 people accepted places on full-time undergraduate
degrees across the University Group, which includes campuses in London and
Scarborough.



 The university is the second largest in terms of growth, with numbers
increasing by 50 per cent since 2011, according to figures from UCAS, which
detail acceptances to over 280 universities.



 Outright, Coventry is the third largest in the UK for annual full time
acceptances.



 The number of EU students choosing undergraduate courses at the university
through UCAS grew by 36 per cent - to 1,220 accepted applicants last year.



 The data show Coventry drawing students from across the country, with London
the second biggest feeder area, supplying more than one in five of the
university's student intake last year.



 More West Midlands students than ever before are choosing Coventry. The six per
cent increase shows the university delivering on a commitment to support the
regional skills agenda of West Midlands Combined Universities, and providing the
qualified graduates local employers need.



 Professor John Latham, Vice-Chancellor of Coventry University, said:



     I'm proud we've become one of the most successful and attractive
universities in the UK, without losing our special character and reputation for
excellent teaching, preparing students for careers and offering international
experiences across all of our courses."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com





LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Corsicana Daily Sun (Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 13, 2011 Thursday

Navarro College prepares for spring semester

BYLINE: Oliver Sheehan, Corsicana Daily Sun, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 674 words


Jan. 13--CORSICANA -- Student numbers in higher education continue to rise, with
figures from Navarro College showing more people than ever are choosing an
education over the job market.

Around 8,900 students have already enrolled at the college for the spring
semester as of Thursday.

Vice President of Enrollment and Institutional Studies Dewayne Gragg believes
that figure could rise as high as 11,000 by the time that enrollment figures are
finalized in February. That figure would exceed the spring semester record of
10,150 students who enrolled in courses at the college last year.

"Nationwide community colleges are growing much faster than universities with
the lower cost of tuition being the most significant factor," Gragg said.

"Students can attend Navarro College for about a third of the cost of a public
university."

Gragg explained that the majority of students are enrolled for a general studies
major, taking core classes such as humanities, maths, computer science and
social science in preparation for a university transfer to complete their
Bachelor's degree.

One of the reasons for the significant growth at the college has been the vast
array of internet classes available, with more than a third of students enrolled
in at least one internet class during the fall semester.

"We continue to enroll more students of traditional college age choosing to save
tuition dollars before transferring to a university. These students are causing
an additional growth in general education classes," he explained.

A continued expansion of technical degrees such as oil and gas, cosmetology and
nursing degrees are also driving significant increases in student numbers, said
Gragg.

"The Corsicana campus is up over 15 percent from the previous year which is
exceptional considering that the campus normally only grows about 2 percent per
year," he said.

Despite the economic downturn and the estimated $15 billion state deficit, the
college continues to function at full capacity.

Students at Navarro College will not see any knock-on effects in the spring
semester from the anticipated $5 million state take back of appropriation fees
that the college has been asked to return over the next four years. There is
also no guarantee that there will be any significant changes as a result of the
state financial situation in the fall semester, said Navarro College District
President Dr. Richard Sanchez.

"We will basically offer classes up to the limit of our resources and we have
found that we have been able to accommodate most of the needs of the students,
so at this particular stage their is no concern for the spring semester," he
said.

"However, the situation might be different for the fall semester when we have a
reduction in state appropriation. We will do our best to keep all our
associations open by adding to classes. We'll make that determination when that
time comes."

Sanchez was keen to stress that the college has a lot to offer future students,
citing a number of reasons why Navarro is continually being picked ahead of
other colleges.

"The reason they are choosing Navarro College is that we have been working to
increase our enrollment for several years. We have deliberately made every
attempt to make the college known and to be visible in various parts of the
state because we believe that we have a great deal to offer students at this
college and students are beginning to understand that," explained Sanchez.

"The fact that our students have been doing very well in national football
championships is being noticed because students like to be involved in those
types of activities at the college."

Oliver Sheehan may be reached by e-mail at oliver@corsicanadailysun.com

To see more of the Corsicana Daily Sun, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.corsicanadailysun.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, Corsicana Daily Sun,
Texas Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110113-XQ-Navarro-College-prepares-for-spring-semester-0113-20110113

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XQ


                       Copyright 2011 Corsicana Daily Sun

                              144 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                           December 13, 2014 Saturday

Metropolitan Library System to offer college help in Oklahoma City area

BYLINE: FROM STAFF REPORTS

SECTION:

LENGTH: 252 words


Need to know where to find financial aid, how to write a college admission
essay, or where to start when choosing a school for higher education?The
Southern Oaks, Belle Isle, Edmond and Almonte libraries are partnering with the
Oklahoma College Assistance Program to present a series of workshops to guide
parents and students through the college admission process."Choosing a college
is one of the most important choices a young adult will make," said Belle Isle
Librarian Anna Todd.

"It can be overwhelming. We can to make the process easier, and we have a lot of
resources that students might not know about."Learn about the application
process, paying for school and preparing for study at 2 p.m. Dec. 20 at the
Southern Oaks Library, 6900 S Walker. Participants will also learn how to fill
out the Free Application for Federal Student Aid and apply for scholarships.Get
the lowdown on financial aid with FAFSA 101 at 10 a.m. Jan. 10 at the Belle Isle
Library, 5501 N Villa, and also at 7 p.m. Jan. 27 at the Edmond Library, 10 S
Boulevard.An additional opportunity to learn how to prepare and pay for college
will be offered at 6 p.m. Feb. 3 at the Almonte Library, 2914 SW 59.Library card
holders also can access information about preparing for college on the shelves
or online anytime. ACT and SAT test guides are available for checkout, and the
Learning Express database has many practice tests available at no cost. Ask a
librarian how to access those resources or go to www.metrolibrary.org to
explore.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 3, 2014 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

College teaches one to think

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 133 words


Casey Ark wrote of his employment troubles in the Aug. 31 Outlook commentary "I
studied computer science. I still couldn't find a job." Mr. Ark may have been
mistaken in choosing to go to college; he might have been better off choosing a
training school. College and university are where one receives an education, not
training. An education is meant to further understanding so the educated person
can think his own thoughts and be flexible. A trained person can do a specific
job.

That is not to say that there aren't trained people who are flexible in their
thinking. Employers looking for trained workers or workers they can train are
two different things. That is why so many employers who want to hire thinkers
and problem-solvers look no further than humanities students.

Marijane Monck , Columbia

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2014 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            November 16, 2012 Friday

Girls go for college reputation, boys want canteen: Survey

BYLINE: Kanchan Srivastava

LENGTH: 324  words


A recent survey conducted among college students in the city found out that when
it comes to choosing a college, a good canteen matters for boys while girls care
more about the reputation of the college.

In the survey, 70.9% girls admitted that the name and reputation of the college
is 'very important' while taking admission. Only 60.9% boys felt the same.
However, 57% boys said that the canteen was 'very important'.

The survey found that parents have a major say in deciding their child's
college. Parents chose the college for 63.6% girls and 57.6% boys who took part
in the survey. Campus placement, good faculty, infrastructure, WiFi are some
other factors which the youth look for while choosing a college. Only 30%
students gave importance to discipline.

The survey was conducted among 300 Bachelor of Management Studies students from
various colleges in Mumbai by TP Madhu Nair, principal of Nirmala Memorial
Foundation College, Kandivli, and assistant professor Poonam Kakkad to
understand the young mind and their needs in order to find out how educational
institutions can update themselves as per the 'customers' need.

"Girls mature faster than boys their age, and tend to be more serious about
academics. Canteen and other hangout places are more important for boys," said
Minnu Bhonsle, a  psychologist.

This study was part of a research paper called 'Employer Branding - A
Competitive Advantage for Educational Institutions in Mumbai' which insists that
colleges don't provide value education. "Colleges must invest in infrastructure,
WiFi, dynamic library, tech-savvy teachers to satisfy their 'customers'," said
Kakkad.

The study also says that high scorers gave importance to good teachers and
attendance. However, extra-curricular activities is the deciding factor for
second division and pass class students. Just one in four students with 75% and
above marks gave importance to cultural festivals.

kanchan.srivastava@dnaindia.net

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2012 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 30, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Highly-valued sixth form is flagship of this school

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 497 words


Choosing the perfect sixth form or college is an important moment in any young
person's life, but with so many fantastic independent and state schools in the
local area, each offering a huge range of subjects, you're bound to find the
perfect solution for your child.

At Beechen Cliff, the sixth form is valued very highly indeed.

It is seen as the 'flagship' of the school, setting the appropriate tone,
particularly in academic terms, and offering an example that will inspire
younger pupils in all areas of school life. Academically, the school's pedigree
is excellent. Pass rates at A-level are 99 per cent and 60 per cent of these are
at grade A or B, with 10 per cent achieving the new A* grade.

Approximately 80 students each year gain university places, the vast majority of
these as their first choice of course. There are 27 Advanced level courses
available with additional courses offered at Hayesfield and Ralph Allen schools.
The International Baccalaureate is also offered alongside the A-level provision.

Life in the sixth form extends well beyond the classroom. Sport, of course, is
legendary and here there are excellent opportunities for all abilities.

In addition, there are numerous cultural opportunities including theatre visits,
music, debating, drama and public speaking. The school is represented annually
at the International Model United Nations.

Outdoor education is an outstanding feature of the school, with recent Duke of
Edinburgh Gold Award expeditions to Corsica and the Pyrenees.

Teams walk the Ten Tors, the Three Peaks Challenge and the Centurion Challenge.

An international perspective is increasingly offered, with linguists taking part
in work experience placements in the target country and a biennial project at
the School of Hope in South Africa.

More and more young people are choosing St Brendan's Sixth Form College for
their post-16 study.

The college, which celebrated the opening of its new buildings at a ceremony in
July, has enjoyed one of its most successful years yet.

Hundreds of students enjoyed excellent results and Ofsted reported that the
college was good with outstanding features, with the IB organisation granting
the college the authorisation to deliver the well respected International
Baccalaureate Qualification.

The college is unique in the area as it provides specialist education for young
people aged 16 to 19 years, all on one safe and pleasant site.

Young people enjoy the choice of a range of courses with any combination
possible, taught by teachers specialising in sixth form study.

Ofsted said that "students are encouraged and inspired by their teachers to aim
for high standards."

To find out what the college can offer you, visit on either October 20 or 21
between 6pm and 9pm for the Open Evening when all academic staff are available
to answer questions.

Alternatively visit on November 22 between 5pm and 7pm for an Advice and
Information Evening. A talk for speakers of Polish will be available at 7.30pm
on October 20.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POPULAR: More and more young people are choosing St Brendan's Sixth
Form College for their post-16 study

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TBC


                    Copyright 2010 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Newton Daily News, Iowa

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          February 22, 2017 Wednesday

PCM's Clark signs with Grand View track team

BYLINE: Troy Hyde, Newton Daily News, Iowa

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 495 words


Feb. 22--MONROE -- Choosing which college to attend is a tough choice for any
high school athlete who wants to extend his or her athletic career.

For Noah Clark, choosing which sport to play in college was equally as tough.

In the end, Clark picked the sport in which he has the most room to still grow,
and he signed a letter of intent to compete in track and field for Grand View
University.

"I still have a lot of potential in track and field, and I haven't hit my peak
yet," said Clark, who qualified for the state meet last year in the discus.

"I really enjoy throwing disc, and I feel like I can excel more in track, too."

Clark hauled in 78 career receptions, scored 13 career receiving touchdowns and
gained 1,277 receiving yards as a three-year letter winner on the PCM football
team.

Clark had opportunities at the Division II and NAIA level to extend his career
in football.

He also played baseball and started for the last two years at third base.
Opportunities in that sport were at and Buena Vista.

For track and field, Clark also was being heavily recruited by Buena Vista and
Wartburg.

"When I went to Grand View, I just felt like I could see myself walking around
campus, seeing myself study and seeing myself involved with the track team,"
Clark said. "The faculty is really nice, and I think it's a great fit."

In 2015, Clark's best throw in discus was 120 feet, 6 inches. As a junior last
year, Clark's best toss in discus was 150-1, which qualifyed him for the state
meet in Des Moines.

At Grand View, Clark also will compete in the hammer throw, weight throw and
javelin.

"It was really tough. I went back and forth forever. I canceled some schools out
and then brought them back in" Clark said. "I wasn't interested in track at
first. Then, it gained some steam and the other ones fell off a bit. I talked it
over with my family and my friends gave me input. I felt like I made the right
decision."

Grand View is located on the east side of Des Moines. Staying close to home was
a key factor for Clark.

"I still have a brother in high school, so I like being close to him," Clark
said. "I am a really big family guy. Home is home for me."

Clark plans to major in physical education. He said he also plans to minor in
coaching or special education.

His goal for the 2017 track and field season is to qualify for the state meet in
both discus and shot put. For now, he is just ready to get outside and take
advantage of the nice weather.

"I'm itching to get outside," Clark said. "I need to figure out where they put
the equipment so I can get started. My goal is to make it to state in both shot
put and discus. I am going to start heavy in shot put and then work in discus. I
have been throwing discus in some camps, and the shot put is the one that needs
the most work. I really want to be good at both."

___ (c)2017 the Newton Daily News (Newton, Iowa) Visit the Newton Daily News
(Newton, Iowa) at www.newtondailynews.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170222-1NI-PCM-s-Clark-signs-with-Grand-View-track-team-0222-20170222

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1NI


                     Copyright 2017 Newton Daily News, Iowa

                              149 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 30, 2014 Tuesday

Washington: American College of Cardiology Updates Heart Attack Recommendations

LENGTH: 675  words

DATELINE: Washington


The American College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the following news
release:

In response to new science showing that complete revascularization of all
significantly blocked arteries leads to better outcomes in some heart attack
patients, the ACC has withdrawn its Choosing Wisely recommendation that patients
and caregivers examine whether this practice is truly necessary.

As part of its ABIM Foundation Choosing Wisely list External Link of five things
providers and patients should question released in April 2012, the ACC
recommended questioning any intervention beyond unblocking just the "culprit"
artery responsible for the heart attack in a hemodynamically stable patient. At
the time the list was released, there were several non-randomized studies
demonstrating harm to patients when treating all significantly blocked arteries.
However, over the last two years, new science has emerged showing potential
improvements for some patients in their overall outcomes as a result of complete
revascularization.

"Science is not static but rather constantly evolving," said ACC President
Patrick T. O'Gara, MD, FACC. "As such, one of the ACC's primary roles is to stay
abreast of this evolution and provide cardiovascular professionals and patients
with the most up-to-date information on which to base decisions about the most
appropriate and necessary treatment. The newest findings regarding coronary
revascularization are great examples of science on the move, and we are
responding accordingly."

Results from the Complete Versus Lesion Only PRimary-PCI Trial (CvLPRIT)
released earlier this month found that patients undergoing complete
revascularization had better outcomes and experienced fewer major adverse
cardiac events compared to those who had only their "culprit" artery
revascularized. These results reinforce data from another trial, the Preventive
Angioplasty in Myocardial Infarction (PRAMI) Trial released in 2013, that show
stenting all coronary arteries with major stenoses improves outcomes. While some
questions remain about the exact timing of the procedures; whether certain
patients benefit versus others; whether FFR might guide decisions; and the role
of patient complexity and hemodynamic stability, there is additional need for
further data across larger populations. The COMPLETE trial, which is currently
in the enrollment phase, will hopefully answer some of these questions over the
next several years.

"Nearly 60 organizations have published lists of tests, treatments and
procedures they say are overused in their specialty as part of the Choosing
Wisely campaign. These lists are based on the latest science and evidence
available at their time of publication," said Daniel Wolfson, MHSA, executive
vice president and chief operating officer of the ABIM Foundation. "The ABIM
Foundation recognizes that new research and medical guidelines are published on
a regular basis and has developed a set of operating principles to ensure the
accuracy of all Choosing Wisely lists is maintained. After the initial
publication of a list, Choosing Wisely partners have committed to review it at
least annually and also to make any needed updates based on new evidence or
changes to clinical guidelines. Providing the most accurate, up-to-date
information to physicians and patients is just good medicine. We appreciate
ACC's careful review and update of its Choosing Wisely list."

Moving forward, O'Gara notes the ACC is working with its partners to address
current clinical guideline and appropriate use criteria recommendations in light
of the new research. The College will also be working with the ABIM Foundation
to update its current list of recommendations, as well as develop an additional
list, in the future.

"The more access patients and providers have to accurate information about
treatment options, the more we can ensure care that is truly necessary, free
from harm and cost-effective," he said.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              European Union News

                           February 4, 2017 Saturday

Coventry University now ranked the UK's third largest for annual student intake
- UCAS figures today

LENGTH: 310 words

DATELINE: New York



 London: Coventry University, UK Government has issued the following news
release:



 Record numbers of students accepted places at Coventry University last year
placing it in the top three largest and fastest growing institutions in the UK,
UCAS figures reveal today.





 The numbers of people choosing to study with Coventry rose by eight per cent in
2016, meaning that 8,130 people accepted places on full-time undergraduate
degrees across the University Group, which includes campuses in London and
Scarborough.



 The university is the second largest in terms of growth, with numbers
increasing by 50 per cent since 2011, according to figures from UCAS, which
detail acceptances to over 280 universities.



 Outright, Coventry is the third largest in the UK for annual full time
acceptances.



 The number of EU students choosing undergraduate courses at the university
through UCAS grew by 36 per cent - to 1,220 accepted applicants last year.



 The data show Coventry drawing students from across the country, with London
the second biggest feeder area, supplying more than one in five of the
university's student intake last year.



 More West Midlands students than ever before are choosing Coventry. The six per
cent increase shows the university delivering on a commitment to support the
regional skills agenda of West Midlands Combined Universities, and providing the
qualified graduates local employers need.



 Professor John Latham, Vice-Chancellor of Coventry University, said:



     I'm proud we've become one of the most successful and attractive
universities in the UK, without losing our special character and reputation for
excellent teaching, preparing students for careers and offering international
experiences across all of our courses."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              European Union News

                           February 4, 2017 Saturday

Coventry University now ranked the UK's third largest for annual student intake
- UCAS figures today

LENGTH: 310 words

DATELINE: New York



 London: Coventry University, UK Government has issued the following news
release:



 Record numbers of students accepted places at Coventry University last year
placing it in the top three largest and fastest growing institutions in the UK,
UCAS figures reveal today.





 The numbers of people choosing to study with Coventry rose by eight per cent in
2016, meaning that 8,130 people accepted places on full-time undergraduate
degrees across the University Group, which includes campuses in London and
Scarborough.



 The university is the second largest in terms of growth, with numbers
increasing by 50 per cent since 2011, according to figures from UCAS, which
detail acceptances to over 280 universities.



 Outright, Coventry is the third largest in the UK for annual full time
acceptances.



 The number of EU students choosing undergraduate courses at the university
through UCAS grew by 36 per cent - to 1,220 accepted applicants last year.



 The data show Coventry drawing students from across the country, with London
the second biggest feeder area, supplying more than one in five of the
university's student intake last year.



 More West Midlands students than ever before are choosing Coventry. The six per
cent increase shows the university delivering on a commitment to support the
regional skills agenda of West Midlands Combined Universities, and providing the
qualified graduates local employers need.



 Professor John Latham, Vice-Chancellor of Coventry University, said:



     I'm proud we've become one of the most successful and attractive
universities in the UK, without losing our special character and reputation for
excellent teaching, preparing students for careers and offering international
experiences across all of our courses."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                             March 24, 2015 Tuesday

BYLINE: Megan Crain Voice correspondent

SECTION: IL FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 819 words


Since the first day of freshman year, college is all anyone ever seems to ask
teens about. Family members, teachers and administrators -- almost anyone who
knows you are in high school will ask those dreaded words: "So, what are you
going to do for college?"

College seems so far away for freshman and sophomores, and many don't give
serious thought to what to do after high school. And then, all of a sudden,
you're a junior, and you have a year to decide on colleges, majors and
scholarships.

"There are so many different choices to make: community college, universities
(private or public), trade schools, military," said Theresa Watkin, the
post-secondary coach at Southeast High School. "The decision determines what you
will be doing for at least the first year and maybe the next four or five
years."

For some juniors, this can be extremely daunting. Most 16- and 17-year-olds have
never had to make a decision on this scale before. But the process of deciding
what to do isn't as hard as it seems. There are lots of ways to reduce college
anxiety and make a smart, informed decision about life after high school.

What do you want to do in college?

Lots of students don't know what to major in. According to the University of
LaVerne in LaVerne, California, about 50 percent of college students enter with
an undecided major.

In high school, most of the classes we take are required. There isn't much
choice in what to take until junior and senior year, and even then class choices
are limited because of scheduling conflicts and other issues. This can leave
teens feeling like they have no idea what they would like to study in college.

"There's a lot of pressure on choosing the right major because it has such a big
impact on my future," said Lindsey Morgan, a junior at Southeast High School.
"It's difficult to make a decision because so much is riding on it."

However, choosing doesn't have to be difficult.

There are many online quizzes you can take that would match you to a suitable
major. For example, MyMajors.com (a partner with The State Journal-Register) is
a website where you take a short quiz, and then get matched with five to 10
majors that would suit your personality and interests.

Once you have some ideas for a major, you can research more in-depth about the
field: what jobs are available with that major, what classes you have to take,
etc.

College is all about discovering what you're interested in. If those interests
change, that's OK. If you enter as a marine biology major and after a semester
realize you really dislike aquatic animals, it's completely fine to change.
Nothing's keeping you bound to one major, and it's normal to change your mind.

Where are you going to go?

Picking a college can also be an extremely difficult task for some juniors.
Choosing where to spend the next four or five years can be overwhelming if you
don't know what to look for.

Even if you do know what to look for, the process of searching for colleges can
be mind-boggling.

Finding a college that has your major, is in the area you want, is your
preferred student body size and in your price range is a difficult task. Again,
there are many online resources to find the perfect college.

The College Board's college search feature has a plethora of filters, from
location to activities and sports to diversity, to help find the right college
for you.

The best way to really see if a college is right for you is to take a campus
tour. Every student has different needs and desires, and different colleges can
address those needs.

"I look for colleges that have a lot of options for their students," said Anna
Benoit, a junior at Sacred Heart-Griffin High School.

"I also look for a school that makes me feel comfortable."

Your school should make you feel comfortable. If the campus is too wild for you,
or maybe too far away from home, don't force yourself to be somewhere you don't
want to be.

College should be fun, and if you're miserable it won't be a good experience.

Wow -- college is expensive

Paying for college is possibly the most anxiety-inducing part of looking for a
school. Going to a four-year school can cost tens of thousands of dollars,
sometimes more. The thought of paying $30,000 for one year of college is a
really scary thought. However, there are many things that can help combat the
high prices of college education.

Scholarships can pay for a large chunk of college costs. Many local
organizations give out scholarships to deserving area high school students.
Colleges and universities award scholarships to students for a number of
reasons, including athletic recruitment and high ACT scores. The Free
Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) can also help students pay for
college.

Choosing your college can be a daunting endeavor. But with the right tools it
can be easier than expected, and (hopefully) anxiety-free.

-- Megan Crain is a junior at Southeast High School.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                             March 24, 2015 Tuesday

Take a deep breath;
Juniors think about the future

BYLINE: Megan Crain Voice correspondent

SECTION: IL FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 819 words


Since the first day of freshman year, college is all anyone ever seems to ask
teens about. Family members, teachers and administrators -- almost anyone who
knows you are in high school will ask those dreaded words: "So, what are you
going to do for college?"

College seems so far away for freshman and sophomores, and many don't give
serious thought to what to do after high school. And then, all of a sudden,
you're a junior, and you have a year to decide on colleges, majors and
scholarships.

"There are so many different choices to make: community college, universities
(private or public), trade schools, military," said Theresa Watkin, the
post-secondary coach at Southeast High School. "The decision determines what you
will be doing for at least the first year and maybe the next four or five
years."

For some juniors, this can be extremely daunting. Most 16- and 17-year-olds have
never had to make a decision on this scale before. But the process of deciding
what to do isn't as hard as it seems. There are lots of ways to reduce college
anxiety and make a smart, informed decision about life after high school.

What do you want to do in college?

Lots of students don't know what to major in. According to the University of
LaVerne in LaVerne, California, about 50 percent of college students enter with
an undecided major.

In high school, most of the classes we take are required. There isn't much
choice in what to take until junior and senior year, and even then class choices
are limited because of scheduling conflicts and other issues. This can leave
teens feeling like they have no idea what they would like to study in college.

"There's a lot of pressure on choosing the right major because it has such a big
impact on my future," said Lindsey Morgan, a junior at Southeast High School.
"It's difficult to make a decision because so much is riding on it."

However, choosing doesn't have to be difficult.

There are many online quizzes you can take that would match you to a suitable
major. For example, MyMajors.com (a partner with The State Journal-Register) is
a website where you take a short quiz, and then get matched with five to 10
majors that would suit your personality and interests.

Once you have some ideas for a major, you can research more in-depth about the
field: what jobs are available with that major, what classes you have to take,
etc.

College is all about discovering what you're interested in. If those interests
change, that's OK. If you enter as a marine biology major and after a semester
realize you really dislike aquatic animals, it's completely fine to change.
Nothing's keeping you bound to one major, and it's normal to change your mind.

Where are you going to go?

Picking a college can also be an extremely difficult task for some juniors.
Choosing where to spend the next four or five years can be overwhelming if you
don't know what to look for.

Even if you do know what to look for, the process of searching for colleges can
be mind-boggling.

Finding a college that has your major, is in the area you want, is your
preferred student body size and in your price range is a difficult task. Again,
there are many online resources to find the perfect college.

The College Board's college search feature has a plethora of filters, from
location to activities and sports to diversity, to help find the right college
for you.

The best way to really see if a college is right for you is to take a campus
tour. Every student has different needs and desires, and different colleges can
address those needs.

"I look for colleges that have a lot of options for their students," said Anna
Benoit, a junior at Sacred Heart-Griffin High School.

"I also look for a school that makes me feel comfortable."

Your school should make you feel comfortable. If the campus is too wild for you,
or maybe too far away from home, don't force yourself to be somewhere you don't
want to be.

College should be fun, and if you're miserable it won't be a good experience.

Wow -- college is expensive

Paying for college is possibly the most anxiety-inducing part of looking for a
school. Going to a four-year school can cost tens of thousands of dollars,
sometimes more. The thought of paying $30,000 for one year of college is a
really scary thought. However, there are many things that can help combat the
high prices of college education.

Scholarships can pay for a large chunk of college costs. Many local
organizations give out scholarships to deserving area high school students.
Colleges and universities award scholarships to students for a number of
reasons, including athletic recruitment and high ACT scores. The Free
Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) can also help students pay for
college.

Choosing your college can be a daunting endeavor. But with the right tools it
can be easier than expected, and (hopefully) anxiety-free.

-- Megan Crain is a junior at Southeast High School.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Kingston Heritage

                              April 6, 2015 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Create your own future with career training at Kingston's Academy of Learning
College

SECTION: SHOPPING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 367  words


Looking to continue your education but aren't sure what direction to take or
where to go? Look no further than the Kingston Campus of Academy of Learning
College, where they specialize in providing customized programs for students,
giving them the skills and training they need to succeed in the working world.

Celebrating 25 years of quality education delivery, Academy of Learning College
has earned the respect of the education community. As a full service college
registered with the Ontario Ministry of Training, Colleges and Universities of
Ontario, Academy of Learning College will help get you from the classroom to the
workforce, quickly.

In choosing Academy of Learning College, students are choosing a different kind
of education, one made expressly for them. With a curriculum that's focused
entirely on the student, offering personalized support and one-on-one attention
for students, Academy of Learning College allows students to learn at their own
pace.

Featuring hands-on training giving students a 'real life' experience along with
shorter courses and a flexible schedule, there is a lot to appeal to students at
Academy of Learning College. With 22government approved diploma and certificate
programs to choose from, and a condensed program that allows students to earn
their diploma in under 12 months, Academy of Learning College might be just the
education answer you're looking for.

Student testimonials identify just what makes the Academy of Learning College
unique. One student clearly identifies what drew her to the college "I chose the
Academy of Learning College because I liked the idea of working at my own pace
and having a flexible schedule."

Bridging the gap between formal education and the working world, Academy of
Learning College has a program available for every interest. Their wide variety
of programs include Office Administration, Medial, Information Technology,
Customer Service, Accounting or Finance, Business, Marketing or Hospitality
Management.

For more information about the Academy of Learning College or to visit the
college for your free, no obligation career assessment, please click here or
give them a call at 613-544-8973.

Sidebar:

Visit our Profile Page

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                                 Copyright 2015
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                            November 4, 2003 Tuesday

LETTERS TO THE VOICE

SECTION: VOICE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 265 words


Don't stress over college decision

Dear Voice editor:

This letter is in response to the Voice article for high school students looking
to choose the right college ... you have no idea how easy you have it right now!

I graduated from college in May, and believe me, choosing which college to go to
is the smallest step of the process. You're entering a world with more
responsibility than you can know. Between getting up for 8 a.m. classes,
studying for exams, writing 10-page papers every week and reading about a
million pages a night, you'll need to find a way to do all this while everyone
around you is partying like crazy.

I can't even say how many people I knew who didn't make it past their freshman
year because of the freedom you encounter at school. Don't get me wrong; I had
more than my share of fun at the bars. I also had parents who threatened to
bring me home if I didn't get good grades.

And that's only while you're in school. After graduating in May, it took me
until September to find a job in my field of study. Most of the people I
graduated with still don't have jobs.

So don't stress now - at least you know where you'll be for at least the next
four years. And don't worry about choosing a major right away; you can take all
of your general education classes first and choose later. It costs a whole lot
more money if you end up changing your major and have to start all over again.

Choosing where you want to go is only the beginning. Knowing what to do when you
get there is a whole other story.

- Carrie Ladage

Eastern Illinois University alumna

Virden

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The West Australian (Perth)

                           February 8, 2017 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Needs of child the foremost criteria;
 -----INFO BOX---- ;
TOP 30 MEDIAN ATAR 2016

SECTION: SP1; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 513  words


It is the decision many parents agonise over.

Where you plan to send your child to school is a topic that crops up regularly
at barbecues and in playgroups.

And it could be one of the most important choices you will ever make on your
child's behalf.

Given that children spend a substantial proportion of their childhood at school,
choosing the right one is important.

But how should you go about it?

There are so many different aspects to consider - public or private? Mixed
gender classes or single-sex? Religious or secular?

A standard school or one focusing on a particular sporting, academic or cultural
interest? Last but not least, what is going to fit your budget?

While there is far more information available now about schools' performances on
tests such as NAPLAN, choosing a school based solely on results found on a
website is not wise.

Just because a group of students from one year group performs well does not
necessarily mean all children from the same school will achieve at that level.

And parents need to remember that results from NAPLAN or Year 12 exams are only
one measure of a school's success.

One of the biggest predictors of student achievement is the background they come
from.

So if you're looking at a high-achieving school in an area where most families
are fairly well off, then be aware its results may have less to do with the
school and more to do with the fact all the parents have read books to their
offspring from birth.

But if a school in a disadvantaged area can show its students are improving at a
greater rate than those in similar schools, that is a far more significant
achievement.

However, looking up sets of graphs and figures on the internet is no replacement
for physically walking around a school to see how welcoming it feels, how
enthusiastic its students are and how they relate to their teachers.

No school will ever be perfect, but parents cannot go too far wrong if they
focus on choosing a school they believe suits their child, not themselves.

TOP 30 MEDIAN ATAR 2016

1  Perth Modern School 95.55

2  Presbyterian Ladies' College 92.90

3  Penrhos College 92.65

4  Christ Church Grammar School 92.50

5  Santa Maria College 91.85

6  St Hilda's Anglican School for Girls 91.40

7  Perth College 90.55

8  St Mary's Anglican Girls' School 90.40

9  Methodist Ladies' College 90.30

10  Shenton College 90.00

11  Hale School 89.80

12  Carmel 89.35

13  John XXIII College 88.60

14  Willetton Senior High School 88.05

15  Rossmoyne Senior High School 87.35

16  Scotch College 87.30

17  Iona Presentation College 86.70

18  Margaret River Senior High School 86.40

19  Corpus Christi 86.35

19  Sacred Heart College 86.35

21  Trinity College 85.70

22  Lake Joondalup Baptist College 85.40

23  Mercedes College 85.35

24   Applecross Senior High School 85.10

24  St Stephen's School - Carramar 85.10

26  All Saints' College 85.00

27  Guildford Grammar School 84.85

28  Churchlands Senior High School 84.70

29  St Mary MacKillop College 84.65

30  St Norbert College 84.55

Calculated from all Year 12 students in the school who enrolled in four or more
ATAR courses. SOURCE: SCSA

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2017 West Australian NewsPapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Kingston Heritage

                            November 3, 2015 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Create your own future with career training at Kingston's Academy of Learning
College

SECTION: SHOPPING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 368  words


Looking to continue your education but aren't sure what direction to take or
where to go? Look no further than the Kingston Campus of Academy of Learning
College, where they specialize in providing customized programs for students,
giving them the skills and training they need to succeed in the working world.

Celebrating 25 years of quality education delivery, Academy of Learning College
has earned the respect of the education community. As a full service college
registered with the Ontario Ministry of Training, Colleges and Universities of
Ontario, Academy of Learning College will help get you from the classroom to the
workforce, quickly.

In choosing Academy of Learning College, students are choosing a different kind
of education, one made expressly for them. With a curriculum that's focused
entirely on the student, offering personalized support and one-on-one attention
for students, Academy of Learning College allows students to learn at their own
pace.

Featuring hands-on training giving students a 'real life' experience along with
shorter courses and a flexible schedule, there is a lot to appeal to students at
Academy of Learning College. With 22 government-approved diploma and certificate
programs to choose from, and a shortened program that allows students to earn
their diploma in only four to 12 months, Academy of Learning College might be
just the education answer you're looking for.

Student testimonials identify just what makes the Academy of Learning College
unique. One student clearly identifies what drew her to the college "I chose the
Academy of Learning College because I liked the idea of working at my own pace
and having a flexible schedule."

Bridging the gap between formal education and the working world, Academy of
Learning College has a program available for every interest. Their wide variety
of programs include Office Administration, Medial, Information Technology,
Customer Service, Accounting or Finance, Business, Marketing or Hospitality
Management.

For more information about the Academy of Learning College or to visit the
college for your free, no obligation career assessment, please click here or
give them a call at 613-544-8973.

Sidebar:

Visit our Profile Page

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                                 Copyright 2015
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                            November 26, 2007 Monday

Decision time for students

SECTION: Pg. Y03

LENGTH: 288 words


As the application process begins, it's decision time for high school students
planning to attend college or university next year.

Choosing which school, program or career is in your future can be a daunting
task. But we can help.

Visit thestar.com/schoolsguide for an online version of our Insiders' Guide to
Colleges and Universities in the Greater Toronto Area.

We have in-depth features on the pros and cons of all 11 colleges and
universities in the GTA, based on interviews with current students.

We also offer advice on such things as financing your post-secondary education,
choosing the right school for you and applying for scholarships. The site is
useful for students and parents alike.

"We encourage parents to get involved with helping their children decide on the
university or college they will go to," says Mark Verhovey, executive director
of the Ontario School Counsellors Association.

One way to narrow down your choice is to visit prospective campuses. Most offer
tours and open houses for students and parents.

Here are some suggested questions the admissions officers at York University and
Durham College suggest you ask during your campus tour:

York University

How does the school help me with the transition to university?

What resources are available to help me excel in my classes?

How can I incorporate international experience into my degree?

What financial resources are available and how do I access them?

Durham College

What is the employment rate of graduates from the programs that interest you?

What sets your program apart from another college's program?

How many field placements or co-op opportunities are available in this program?

How many labs or hands-on classes are in the program?

thestar.com/schoolsguide

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2007 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.

                              159 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                             Torquay Herald Express

                           November 13, 2014 Thursday

Record level of interest in sixth form

SECTION: NEWS:EDUCATION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 275  words


NEWTON Abbot College has received a record level of interest in its sixth form
after expanding the range of courses it is offering next September.

This success follows a 30 per cent rise in the number of students joining the
college in Year 7 this September.

Lesley Ring, head of sixth form, puts this down to offering students the courses
they want right on their doorstep.

She said:  "We believe we already offer the widest range of academic and
vocational courses in a school sixth form in the south west and we have now
expanded the choice even further with the introduction of several new courses
including our Arsenal football and coaching academy, public services, media
studies and a broader range of science subjects ready for next September.  We
have recently welcomed 130 students from Dawlish alone to see what we have on
offer.

"The students from Dawlish were surprised by the opportunities available at the
college, particularly the range of vocational subjects including childcare, hair
and beauty, automotive maintenance, professional cookery and construction.

"This, combined with small group sizes and the friendly environment at the
college, was really attractive to them."

As an independent academy, the college has the freedom to expand to meet
increasing demand.

Principal Paul Cornish said:  "Our strong Ofsted report, academic results and
focus on traditional values is recognised locally and we value the trust t so
many parents and young people place in us by choosing the college.

"We take this responsibility very seriously and are delighted so many are
choosing Newton Abbot College in both Year 7 and in our sixth form."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: students: A sixth form class at Newton Abbot College, with student
Annie Haines in the foreground

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            December 17, 2004 Friday
                                 DuPage Edition

Despite college coaching carousel, local recruits still confident, comfortable

BYLINE: Kevin Schmit

SECTION: SPORTS EXTRA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 664 words


Football is one big power struggle, and it doesn't just come on the field.

It doesn't always come during the season, and it doesn't only come at the level
of your competition.

With the coaching carousel currently in progress at the college level, the
trickle-down effect is dripping on the high schools in DuPage County.

Between the firings of Ron Turner at Illinois, Tyrone Willingham at Notre Dame
and even Buddy Teevens at Stanford, ramifications have been felt by an awaiting
nation of potential recruits.

"I went into the process knowing that coach Turner might be fired," said
Waubonsie Valley senior quarterback Paul Blalock, who is verbally committed to
the Illini. "For the most part I was choosing the school, but I liked coach
Turner a lot. I'm still pretty confident it's the place to be."

Confident and comfortable.

It's far better to be a high school senior than a college freshman right now.
While the college freshman is stuck with the coaching change, the blue-chip high
schooler still has some wiggle room.

The power play is in their court.

"Commitment is 99 percent, but there's always that 1 percent that can change
things," said Glenbard West's Tom McAndrew, who remains fully committed to
Stanford. "I still have faith in Stanford, and their commitment to me was
confirmed. Stanford's Stanford. It's still one of the top schools."

According to recruiting guru Tim O'Halloran, who operates the Edgytim.com Web
site as part of the Rivals network, the first lesson of choosing a school is
exactly that - choosing a school, not a football coach.

"(The coaching changes) had some pretty wide ramifications," O'Halloran said.
"You always have coaches fired every year, but this has been exceptional. The
one thing I always say is you've got to fall in love with the school, not the
coach."

As the dominoes fall, it becomes a scramble.

New college coaches firm up the existing recruits, something recently named
Illinois coach Ron Zook did through a phone call to Blalock on Sunday.

At the same time competing college coaches sometimes try to sway recruits to
reconsider their verbal commitment, something that happened unsuccessfully with
McAndrew.

The recruits, especially the uncommitted four-star types, add to the muddled
picture by adjusting their list of finalists depending on the changing spectrum
of coaches.

Willingham's firing had particularly strong aftershocks in Chicagoland.

Wheaton Warrenville South tackle Dace Richardson considered making an official
visit to South Bend but changed his mind with Willingham's departure. Richardson
instead moved a step closer to the University of Iowa with last weekend's visit
to Iowa City.

Right now all the power is in the hands of the top recruits. A year from now,
when they're already in place, the power shifts back to the colleges.

Even now, the mid-level recruit could face problems. It's rare but still
possible that a new college coach won't like the makeup of verbally committed
players and could try to pull back a scholarship offer.

Unlike the top recruits who weigh several offers and official visits, many
recruits jump at the first offer. A coaching change could weaken their
bargaining power without a viable backup plan.

"It's bad for the schools that fire their coaches, but it's also bad for the
recruits," O'Halloran said. "It's a shock because these are all the guys they've
been talking to and suddenly they're gone. A lot of these kids don't want to put
their time and energy into a whole new coaching staff."

For many, though, the transition is seamless.

McAndrew's new coach at Stanford is Walt Harris, who offered McAndrew a
scholarship while he was head coach at the University of Pittsburgh.

McAndrew liked Harris then, and he likes him now.

But as much as things worked out, there was always that chance.

One last chance for these recruits to choose another path.

"It's like you're headed down the highway and there's one more exit before you
hit the skyway," McAndrew said. "Are you going to stay on or get off?"

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              161 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                             May 27, 2004 Thursday

Freshman survival guide full of tips on college

SECTION: VALLEY VOICE; Pg. V29

LENGTH: 507 words


Savor that feeling of relief, graduates.

For those of you heading off to college, satisfaction likely will be replaced by
a gang of nagging questions as your departure date creeps closer.

What to pack? Who will your roommate be? How will you find your classes?

Maybe you've gotten advice from your mom or an older friend. But is college
still like that? Wasn't that a long time ago?

Rest easy, future freshmen. The new book ``How to Survive Your Freshman Year,''
$12.95 from Hundreds of Heads Books Inc., compiles thoughts and advice from
hundreds of college sophomores, juniors and seniors who made it through their
freshman years, plus tips from a few college dropouts on things to avoid.

The book is organized by topic and does a great job of covering major concerns:
what to take to college, leaving home, where to live, choosing roommates,
choosing classes, choosing a major, studying, food, finances, fashion, friends,
family, trips and study abroad, parties, dating and sex, and fraternities and
sororities.

The editors kept their target audience in mind.

Knowing the reader would be fresh from 12 long years of study, they put the book
together in bite-size chunks.

For instance, from the list of what to take to college, Phil, a senior from the
University of Virginia said ``Bring an umbrella. Yes, it rains at college,
too.''

An anonymous sophomore from Yale University said ``A journal. It's kind of a
manic-depressive time, freshman year. ... During the lows it helps to write it
out.''

Alyssa, a sophomore from James Madison University said ``A hot pot ... You can
make tea, coffee, soup - anything, really - in a hot pot.''

The beginning of the book has a Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty that
warns: ``The advice contained herein may not be suitable for your situation (in
fact, some of it may be dangerous to your health!).''

Indeed, there is information about the best place to have ``quickie sex'' on
campus, how not to get caught smoking pot in your dorm room and why fake IDs are
a good idea.

But the book does provide balance. There are thoughts from students who don't
drink, cautionary tales from those who have overdone it and regret it, and
practical advice about being safe (keep your drink covered) and finding balance
between fun and academics.

Besides the short quotes, students also share some entertaining stories about
various mishaps with washing machines and cooking hot dogs in a toaster.

Some of the advice is ridiculous. Some seems to be written by people trying a
little too hard to say something clever.

But much of it is honest, thoughtful and wise.

``Don't set your mind on anything the first year,'' advised M.M., a senior at
New York University. ``Explore. That's what it's about.''

``How to Survive Your Freshman Year'' gives curious high schools students and
new graduates a good idea of what to expect in college, and things to consider,
from a smattering of viewpoints.

And, the college grads in their lives may find it fun to read, remember, and
record some survival tips of their own.

ILLUSTRATION: Photo

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2004 Spokane Spokesman-Review

                              162 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

MOC Update: ACC Approved to Provide Part IV Credit; ABIM Considering Society
Pathway Option

LENGTH: 699  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: The Department of College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the
following news release:



 As part of ACC's efforts to help cardiovascular professionals maintain
professional competency, the College has been engaged with both the American
Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) and the American Board of Medical Specialties
(ABMS) to streamline and improve maintenance of certification (MOC)
credit-earning processes.





 ACC Approved to Provide Part IV Credit



 The College was recently notified by ABMS that it has been approved as a
Portfolio Program sponsor through the Multi-Specialty Portfolio Approval
Program.



 As a sponsor, the College can deliver more meaningful and relevant quality and
process improvement experiences and award Part IV credit for ABMS MOC to its
members with dual board certifications (i.e., pediatrics, and thoracic surgery),
as well as its growing number of Affiliate members involved in areas like family
medicine, radiology and emergency medicine. Additionally, while the ABIM has
suspended Part IV requirements under its MOC program, credit is still granted
for practice improvement activities. Those physicians choosing to participate in
the MOC program and subsequently Part IV activities will benefit from this new
development.



 On a broader scale, Portfolio Program sponsor designation also positions the
College as a trusted source of patient safety, patient voice and practice
improvement activities for those members looking to maximize their efforts to
meet Quality Payment Program requirements outlined under the Medicare Access and
CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (MACRA). Physicians choosing to participate in
the Merit-Based Incentive Payment System (MIPS) option under the Quality Payment
Program must take part in improvement activities ranging from offering expanded
evening and weekend hours to participating in MOC Part IV. In short, physicians
who elect to participate in MOC Part IV activities can get credit for
certification and federal payment at the same time.



 ACC Exploring Society Pathway Alternative to 10-Year Exam



 On the ABIM front, the ACC is one of three medical specialty societies working
with ABIM to explore a "Society Maintenance Pathway" option that would serve as
an alternative to the 10-year exam.



 In May, the ABIM announced plans to offer a new MOC assessment option beginning
in 2018 that would allow physicians who "engage in and perform well" on shorter
assessments to test out of the current 10-year exam. Since then, the College and
other internal medicine stakeholders have participated in meetings to discuss
the possibility of an alternative MOC pathway offered through professional
societies. Subsequently, the ACC, the American College of Physicians and the
American Society of Clinical Oncology have been asked by ABIM to further develop
Society Pathway pilots that, if successful, would be expanded to more internal
medicine subspecialty groups.



 For cardiology, this could mean the ACC would provide clinicians with learning
material and modular assessments modeled after the lifelong learning
self-assessment program (ACCSAP) and report the names of successful diplomates
to ABIM. Those diplomates choosing not to participate or who are unsuccessful in
completing the Society Maintenance Pathway would have the option of taking the
ABIM's 10-year exam before any action would be taken by the ABIM regarding their
certification status.



 Details about the pilot program and the specifics of professional society
pathways for MOC, including a time frame, have yet to be determined and will be
discussed with ABIM over the coming weeks. However, ABIM's willingness to listen
to stakeholders and consider society pathways as a viable option is encouraging.
As always, the ACC will continue to advocate for improvements to ABIM's MOC
process to ensure it provides the most value and relevance for those members
choosing to participate in the process. Stay tuned to ACC.org/MOC for continued
updates, as well as access to all of the College's MOC activities, which are
free to members.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

MOC Update: ACC Approved to Provide Part IV Credit; ABIM Considering Society
Pathway Option

LENGTH: 699  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: The Department of College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the
following news release:



 As part of ACC's efforts to help cardiovascular professionals maintain
professional competency, the College has been engaged with both the American
Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) and the American Board of Medical Specialties
(ABMS) to streamline and improve maintenance of certification (MOC)
credit-earning processes.





 ACC Approved to Provide Part IV Credit



 The College was recently notified by ABMS that it has been approved as a
Portfolio Program sponsor through the Multi-Specialty Portfolio Approval
Program.



 As a sponsor, the College can deliver more meaningful and relevant quality and
process improvement experiences and award Part IV credit for ABMS MOC to its
members with dual board certifications (i.e., pediatrics, and thoracic surgery),
as well as its growing number of Affiliate members involved in areas like family
medicine, radiology and emergency medicine. Additionally, while the ABIM has
suspended Part IV requirements under its MOC program, credit is still granted
for practice improvement activities. Those physicians choosing to participate in
the MOC program and subsequently Part IV activities will benefit from this new
development.



 On a broader scale, Portfolio Program sponsor designation also positions the
College as a trusted source of patient safety, patient voice and practice
improvement activities for those members looking to maximize their efforts to
meet Quality Payment Program requirements outlined under the Medicare Access and
CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (MACRA). Physicians choosing to participate in
the Merit-Based Incentive Payment System (MIPS) option under the Quality Payment
Program must take part in improvement activities ranging from offering expanded
evening and weekend hours to participating in MOC Part IV. In short, physicians
who elect to participate in MOC Part IV activities can get credit for
certification and federal payment at the same time.



 ACC Exploring Society Pathway Alternative to 10-Year Exam



 On the ABIM front, the ACC is one of three medical specialty societies working
with ABIM to explore a "Society Maintenance Pathway" option that would serve as
an alternative to the 10-year exam.



 In May, the ABIM announced plans to offer a new MOC assessment option beginning
in 2018 that would allow physicians who "engage in and perform well" on shorter
assessments to test out of the current 10-year exam. Since then, the College and
other internal medicine stakeholders have participated in meetings to discuss
the possibility of an alternative MOC pathway offered through professional
societies. Subsequently, the ACC, the American College of Physicians and the
American Society of Clinical Oncology have been asked by ABIM to further develop
Society Pathway pilots that, if successful, would be expanded to more internal
medicine subspecialty groups.



 For cardiology, this could mean the ACC would provide clinicians with learning
material and modular assessments modeled after the lifelong learning
self-assessment program (ACCSAP) and report the names of successful diplomates
to ABIM. Those diplomates choosing not to participate or who are unsuccessful in
completing the Society Maintenance Pathway would have the option of taking the
ABIM's 10-year exam before any action would be taken by the ABIM regarding their
certification status.



 Details about the pilot program and the specifics of professional society
pathways for MOC, including a time frame, have yet to be determined and will be
discussed with ABIM over the coming weeks. However, ABIM's willingness to listen
to stakeholders and consider society pathways as a viable option is encouraging.
As always, the ACC will continue to advocate for improvements to ABIM's MOC
process to ensure it provides the most value and relevance for those members
choosing to participate in the process. Stay tuned to ACC.org/MOC for continued
updates, as well as access to all of the College's MOC activities, which are
free to members.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 30, 1997, Thursday

Social Trends: More choosing the single life

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 193 words


Record numbers of people are choosing to live alone, according to research
published yesterday. About 5.3 million people live on their own in Britain
today, representing more than a quarter of all households. This is up from the
18 per cent recorded 20 years ago - and the number is still growing.

Researchers said the trend had been fuelled by a combination of rising numbers
of single and divorced people and the growing number of people, in particular
single men and divorced women, staying alone. The findings follow a two-year
study into living trends in the UK and France, which has seen a similar leap in
the number of lone householders. Dr Ray Hall, who carried out the study with
Professor Philip Ogden at Queen Mary and Westfield College, University of
London, said: "Our research shows that more young people are actively choosing
to live alone. Although one-person households have traditionally been associated
with the elderly, there are increasing numbers of people under 40 who are opting
to live alone.  This is especially true amongst professional and managerial
classes, possibly because job mobility is important to them."


LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              165 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                            November 9, 2014 Sunday

From next year, IIT-Madras students get more electives to pick from

BYLINE: M Ramya

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 431 words


CHENNAI: IIT-Madras wants to give its students more autonomy in choosing what
they want to learn, from the next academic year. The plan is to give students
around 50% autonomy in choosing the electives.

IIT-M director Bhaskar Ramamurthi said the admission process to IITs requires
students to choose the engineering discipline before they join the course.
Though this process cannot be changed, IIT-M wants to look at a minimum
curriculum that students will have to take and then allow them to choose
electives that are multi-disciplinary. "Hopefully, their choices will be driven
by interest. We would like their studies here to be deep rather than
superficial," professor Ramamurthi said.

The idea is similar to Purdue University's transdiciplinary bachelor's degree
programme that tries to create 'T-shaped graduates' by integrating learning
driven by students' passions and interests and the needs of the marketplace,
said Mitch Daniels, president of Purdue University in the US who is on a visit
to IIT-M. He said that 36 students have signed up for this programme at Purdue
University this fall. The programme will be delivered through the institute's
proposed degree programme and refined as the academic year progresses, he said.

Professor Ramamurthi said that the institution would try to incorporate this
idea during their 10-year curriculum revision which is now on. During the
revision, the committee will ensure that students learn enough about the
discipline they chose to specialise in when they enroll for the course to
justify the degree, and get enough free time to pursue their interests.

The committee members are getting inputs from students. The senate will have to
approve the curriculum approved before it is made official. The director said
the revision will be done in three or four months and it is likely to be ready
for rollout by July 2015, before the next academic year. The institute plans to
offer a wide range of courses - 2,000 by year 2020 - to give students choice.

Students' choices will not show on their degree certificate but will show on
their transcripts, so a prospective employer or higher education admissions
committee member will be able to see the student's aptitude and interest.

Many of the IITs offer a flexible curriculum. For instance, IIT-Mandi mandates
only 20 to 30 contact hours a week, leaving students time for extracurricular
activities and individual study, while IIT-Kharagpur allows a student who meets
a required CGPA in the course he is enrolled in to select minor courses in other
disciplines.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            November 9, 2014 Sunday

From next year, IIT-Madras students get more electives to pick from

BYLINE: M Ramya

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 431 words


CHENNAI: IIT-Madras wants to give its students more autonomy in choosing what
they want to learn, from the next academic year. The plan is to give students
around 50% autonomy in choosing the electives.

IIT-M director Bhaskar Ramamurthi said the admission process to IITs requires
students to choose the engineering discipline before they join the course.
Though this process cannot be changed, IIT-M wants to look at a minimum
curriculum that students will have to take and then allow them to choose
electives that are multi-disciplinary. "Hopefully, their choices will be driven
by interest. We would like their studies here to be deep rather than
superficial," professor Ramamurthi said.

The idea is similar to Purdue University's transdiciplinary bachelor's degree
programme that tries to create 'T-shaped graduates' by integrating learning
driven by students' passions and interests and the needs of the marketplace,
said Mitch Daniels, president of Purdue University in the US who is on a visit
to IIT-M. He said that 36 students have signed up for this programme at Purdue
University this fall. The programme will be delivered through the institute's
proposed degree programme and refined as the academic year progresses, he said.

Professor Ramamurthi said that the institution would try to incorporate this
idea during their 10-year curriculum revision which is now on. During the
revision, the committee will ensure that students learn enough about the
discipline they chose to specialise in when they enroll for the course to
justify the degree, and get enough free time to pursue their interests.

The committee members are getting inputs from students. The senate will have to
approve the curriculum approved before it is made official. The director said
the revision will be done in three or four months and it is likely to be ready
for rollout by July 2015, before the next academic year. The institute plans to
offer a wide range of courses - 2,000 by year 2020 - to give students choice.

Students' choices will not show on their degree certificate but will show on
their transcripts, so a prospective employer or higher education admissions
committee member will be able to see the student's aptitude and interest.

Many of the IITs offer a flexible curriculum. For instance, IIT-Mandi mandates
only 20 to 30 contact hours a week, leaving students time for extracurricular
activities and individual study, while IIT-Kharagpur allows a student who meets
a required CGPA in the course he is enrolled in to select minor courses in other
disciplines.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           November 8, 2014 Saturday
                                Chennai Edition

From next yr, IIT-M students to get more electives to pick from

BYLINE: Ramya.M@timesgroup.com

SECTION: THE TIMES OF INDIA

LENGTH: 416 words


IITMadras wants to give its students more autonomy in choosing what they want to
learn, from the next academic year. The plan is to give students around 50%
autonomy in choosing the electives.

IIT-M director Bhaskar Ramamurthi said the admission process to IITs requires
students to choose the engineering discipline before they join the course.
Though this process cannot be changed, IIT-M wants to look at a minimum
curriculum that students will have to take and then allow them to

choose other electives that are multi-disciplinary."Hopefully , their choices
will be driven by interest. We would like their studies here to be deep rather
than superficial," he said.

The idea is similar to Pur due University's transdiciplinary bachelor's degree
programme.

Purdue University integrates learning driven by students' passions and interests
and the needs of the marketplace to create `T-shaped graduates', said Purdue
University president Mitch Daniels, who is on a visit to IIT-M. He said 36
students had signed up for this programme at Purdue University this fall.The
programme will be delivered through the institute's proposed degree programme
and refined as the

academic year progresses, he said.

Professor Ramamurthi said the institution would try to incorporate the idea
during its 10-year curriculum revision which is now on. During the revision, the
committee will ensure that students learn enough about the discipline they
choose to specialise in when they enroll for the course to justify the degree,
and get enough free time to pursue their interests.

The committee members are getting inputs from

students. The senate will have to approve the curriculum approved before it is
made official. The director said the revision will be done in three or four
months and it is likely to be ready for rollout by July 2015, before the next
academic year. The institute plans to offer a wide range of courses- 2,000 by
year 2020 -to give students choice.

Students' choices will not show on their degree certificate but will show on
their transcripts, so a pro

spective employer or higher education admissions committee member will be able
to see the student's aptitude and interest.

Many IITs offer a flexible curriculum. For instance, IIT-Mandi mandates only 20
to 30 contact hours a week, leaving students time for extracurricular activities
and individual study, while IITKharagpur allows a student, who meets a required
CGPA in the course he is enrolled in, to select minor courses in other
disciplines.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                            December 1, 2014 Monday

Studying in a foreign country

LENGTH: 762 words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, Dec. 1 -- As an undergraduate student studying at a mid-sized public
university in the US, and as a Nepali national, I think it's worth sharing my
experiences of being a third-world student studying in a first-world
country.While more and more Nepali students are moving abroad to continue their
tertiary education with each passing year, it must be noted that even though the
general assumption holds that all the institutions in the developed countries
are first-class, it does not encapsulate the whole reality.

Yes, the developed world takes education seriously. It's also true that they
spend billions of dollars in maintaining and upgrading their educational
institutions. But at the same time, not all the institutions in these countries
are of equal repute. So, let nobody tell you that the quality of a college/
university does not matter. But having said that, don't just go for the big
brands that are out there. We cannot negate the fact that more than the brand
name of a college or a university, it's the academic environment and faculty
members who play a pivotal role in shaping our destiny. There are people who
have performed fabulously despite attending the so-called average institutions
and there are others who have dropped out of top-tier universities. So while
choosing a college/university, keep your course choice and the academic
environment you require in mind. After all, institutions and big brands don't
matter much if you cannot make the most out of it. College placement is just a
start of your life, not an end.

Along with the right kind of institutions, you also require the right kind of
crowd

to boost your intellect and perform better. Thus, while choosing a college,
students must also keep in mind the kind of crowd they expect to engage with.
They must act prudently to place themselves in the company of mature,
benevolent, and competent people they can identify with.

Now the obvious question that comes is, what next? What are we going to do after
we are done with our degrees? And the answer that always comes to my mind is:
We, the future of our country, must return back to our native land and do
something for it. Because, going by the condition of our country, the very fact
that we can further our tertiary education abroad underscores our privileged
background. Despite the fact that the quality of education in Nepal cannot be
compared to that of the developed world, we've made it this far, and hence,
after gaining enough knowledge, it remains our responsibility to use our
expertise back home.

Countries like India, China, Taiwan, Singapore and the Philippines, among
others, were able to make a significant improvement in their economy and policy,
and usher an era of a rapid economic growth, on the leverage of western-educated
leaders, scholars and experts. And since the number of western-educated Nepalis
has increased significantly in the last few years, it's not impossible for

Nepal to take huge economic strides in

the future if it uses its foreign-educated resources properly.

Plus, the whole point of getting educated abroad should not just be about living
in a first-world country and earning tons of money. This reminds me of Oprah
Winfrey's word from her Harvard commencement speech of 2013. She said, "The key
to life is to develop an internal, moral emotional GPS that can tell you which
way to go..The challenge of life is to build a resume that does not tell you a
story about what you want to be, but why you want to be." So, rather than just
living abroad and criticising our politicians for not doing enough,
well-educated Nepali expats must make it a point to work for the betterment of
this country.

And finally, to those who didn't make it to the institutions of their choice,
life is not about how low you fall, it's about how high you bounce back. Look at
people who've accomplished much in life and see where they started. Hari Bansha
Acharya passed the SLC examination on his third attempt, Binod Chaudhary failed
an entrance exam for Chartered Accountancy, JK Rowling was a single mother
living off the state welfare when she began writing the "Harry Potter" series
and Winston Churchill was so slow a learner that his teachers used to write to
his mother asking her to drop him out of school. So, don't be disappointed. Just
try harder.

Adhikari is a student at the University of New Orleans, USA

Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Newcastle Herald (Australia)

                           November 24, 2012 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Sort out priorities before study;
University and Tertiary Enrolments A Newcastle Herald advertising feature

BYLINE: GR

SECTION: SUPPLEMENT; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 248 words


DECIDING where to study is a very personal decision. Whether it is looking to
study at a university, private higher education college or TAFE, there are many
options available.According to Avondale College of Higher Education, when
choosing where to study ask: &quot;What do I want out of my study experience?

&quot;And when choosing a course, work out what your priorities are.&quot;Do you
want the course with the best reputation, or are you looking for a course that
has subject flexibility and experiences that will enhance your career
interests,&quot; a spokeswoman said.&quot;We all have very different learning
styles and thrive in different learning environments.&quot;Some of us succeed in
an environment with small class sizes and individualised attention, while others
enjoy self-driven learning and aren't looking for extra support from their
lecturers and teachers.&quot;Avondale College offers flexible contact hours so
that a student can work full-time during studies, a variety of practical
learning experiences and world travel integrated into their degree.&quot;You
will need to know which institution will best help give you the best experience
and also help you meet your study goals,&quot; the spokeswoman
said.&quot;Finding a provider that offers great practical learning opportunities
and networking opportunities, people to help with job placement, and staff with
a genuine vested interest in your life after graduation will help give you the
competitive edge.&quot;

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 Newcastle Newspapers Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Gold Coast Bulletin (Australia)

                             June 1, 2006 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

Choosing a new school;
is child's play, says Ella

BYLINE: by Katrina Jones

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 224  words


WHEN it comes to choosing the right school, the most important thing is the
playground.

At least, that's what the kids think.

For parents, quality in education, discipline and a healthy learning

environment are the key.

Prospective parents and their tots were out in force at the AB Paterson College
Open Day to check out the facilities - and the play areas.

Giancarlo D'Odorico will follow in the footsteps of his three older siblings
already at the college when he starts prep next year.

The four-year-old was busy wandering the school grounds meeting older students
and teachers, as well as fitting in some necessary play time.

''I like to draw,'' he said. ''I think I will like coming to school.''

Paul D'Odorico said education and good discipline were vital when choosing a
school for his children.

''We like that at this school they have a slightly different teaching system
which was adopted from various overseas education systems,'' he said.

Ella Taylor, 3, and her parents Peta and Mark were also enjoying the events in
the school yard. Ella will start school in 2008, and the Taylors are determined
to pick the right one.

''We look for quality in education,'' said Peta. ''But she just wants to go
check out the playgrounds.''

The college also celebrated its 16th annual Founders Day Assembly with the
official opening of its Oliphant extension.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GCB


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Parramatta Sun

                           February 14, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Life after school

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 365 words


" UNIVERSITY:

Many people choose to attend university.

For many careers a university degree is now a necessity.

University can help you increase learning in your chosen field, be it law,
medicine, communications/media, graphic design, theatre or history.

It can be difficult to choose a course, but once the choosing is out of the way,
more studies in the topic of your choice should be an enjoyable experience.

But university is not just about learning; it also offers a great social
adventure with many opportunities to join clubs, attend events and even take up
a new hobby.

" TAFE:

TAFE courses often offer a more industry based education program and can provide
a stepping stone into university.

If you are interested in various trades, hospitality or even hairdressing and
beauty, then choosing a TAFE course may be your best option.

Sometimes qualifications for TAFE and university overlap, so it is up to you to
choose what suits best - it may be a difference in course duration, or even
costs.

" PRIVATE COLLEGE:

For courses in IT, community services, design, beauty, tourism and much more,
there are many private colleges in Australia that may suit your needs. Some
private colleges can offer more flexible class options, or even a step towards
university.

" GETTING A JOB:

Often jumping straight into the workforce after school is good option.

Building experience is a great career starter and can help you eventually land
that dream job.

Keeping an eye on job advertisements and putting together a good resume is very
important.

" A GAP YEAR:

Whether you're jet-setting across the world, or earning money to help out with
uni fees people may choose to take a gap year after high school.

A well-earned break will give you great opportunities to gain life experience
and time to decide what you would like to do for the future.

LEAVING high school is a daunting experience and after 13 years of schooling
your life is set to change dramatically.

There is life after high school, and it is up to you what path you follow.

There are many options available for school leavers, but it is important to make
the right choice for you.

Life after high school? Visit careerfaqs.com.au for information and advice.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE:


             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Parramatta Sun

                           February 14, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Life after school

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 365 words


" UNIVERSITY:

Many people choose to attend university.

For many careers a university degree is now a necessity.

University can help you increase learning in your chosen field, be it law,
medicine, communications/media, graphic design, theatre or history.

It can be difficult to choose a course, but once the choosing is out of the way,
more studies in the topic of your choice should be an enjoyable experience.

But university is not just about learning; it also offers a great social
adventure with many opportunities to join clubs, attend events and even take up
a new hobby.

" TAFE:

TAFE courses often offer a more industry based education program and can provide
a stepping stone into university.

If you are interested in various trades, hospitality or even hairdressing and
beauty, then choosing a TAFE course may be your best option.

Sometimes qualifications for TAFE and university overlap, so it is up to you to
choose what suits best - it may be a difference in course duration, or even
costs.

" PRIVATE COLLEGE:

For courses in IT, community services, design, beauty, tourism and much more,
there are many private colleges in Australia that may suit your needs. Some
private colleges can offer more flexible class options, or even a step towards
university.

" GETTING A JOB:

Often jumping straight into the workforce after school is good option.

Building experience is a great career starter and can help you eventually land
that dream job.

Keeping an eye on job advertisements and putting together a good resume is very
important.

" A GAP YEAR:

Whether you're jet-setting across the world, or earning money to help out with
uni fees people may choose to take a gap year after high school.

A well-earned break will give you great opportunities to gain life experience
and time to decide what you would like to do for the future.

LEAVING high school is a daunting experience and after 13 years of schooling
your life is set to change dramatically.

There is life after high school, and it is up to you what path you follow.

There are many options available for school leavers, but it is important to make
the right choice for you.

Life after high school? Visit careerfaqs.com.au for information and advice.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE:


             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Camden Advertiser

                          February 13, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Life after school

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 80

LENGTH: 365 words


" UNIVERSITY:

Many people choose to attend university.

For many careers a university degree is now a necessity.

University can help you increase learning in your chosen field, be it law,
medicine, communications/media, graphic design, theatre or history.

It can be difficult to choose a course, but once the choosing is out of the way,
more studies in the topic of your choice should be an enjoyable experience.

But university is not just about learning; it also offers a great social
adventure with many opportunities to join clubs, attend events and even take up
a new hobby.

" TAFE:

TAFE courses often offer a more industry based education program and can provide
a stepping stone into university.

If you are interested in various trades, hospitality or even hairdressing and
beauty, then choosing a TAFE course may be your best option.

Sometimes qualifications for TAFE and university overlap, so it is up to you to
choose what suits best - it may be a difference in course duration, or even
costs.

" PRIVATE COLLEGE:

For courses in IT, community services, design, beauty, tourism and much more,
there are many private colleges in Australia that may suit your needs. Some
private colleges can offer more flexible class options, or even a step towards
university.

" GETTING A JOB:

Often jumping straight into the workforce after school is good option.

Building experience is a great career starter and can help you eventually land
that dream job.

Keeping an eye on job advertisements and putting together a good resume is very
important.

" A GAP YEAR:

Whether you're jet-setting across the world, or earning money to help out with
uni fees people may choose to take a gap year after high school.

A well-earned break will give you great opportunities to gain life experience
and time to decide what you would like to do for the future.

LEAVING high school is a daunting experience and after 13 years of schooling
your life is set to change dramatically.

There is life after high school, and it is up to you what path you follow.

There are many options available for school leavers, but it is important to make
the right choice for you.

Life after high school? Visit careerfaqs.com.au for information and advice.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Camden Advertiser

                          February 13, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Life after school

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 80

LENGTH: 365 words


" UNIVERSITY:

Many people choose to attend university.

For many careers a university degree is now a necessity.

University can help you increase learning in your chosen field, be it law,
medicine, communications/media, graphic design, theatre or history.

It can be difficult to choose a course, but once the choosing is out of the way,
more studies in the topic of your choice should be an enjoyable experience.

But university is not just about learning; it also offers a great social
adventure with many opportunities to join clubs, attend events and even take up
a new hobby.

" TAFE:

TAFE courses often offer a more industry based education program and can provide
a stepping stone into university.

If you are interested in various trades, hospitality or even hairdressing and
beauty, then choosing a TAFE course may be your best option.

Sometimes qualifications for TAFE and university overlap, so it is up to you to
choose what suits best - it may be a difference in course duration, or even
costs.

" PRIVATE COLLEGE:

For courses in IT, community services, design, beauty, tourism and much more,
there are many private colleges in Australia that may suit your needs. Some
private colleges can offer more flexible class options, or even a step towards
university.

" GETTING A JOB:

Often jumping straight into the workforce after school is good option.

Building experience is a great career starter and can help you eventually land
that dream job.

Keeping an eye on job advertisements and putting together a good resume is very
important.

" A GAP YEAR:

Whether you're jet-setting across the world, or earning money to help out with
uni fees people may choose to take a gap year after high school.

A well-earned break will give you great opportunities to gain life experience
and time to decide what you would like to do for the future.

LEAVING high school is a daunting experience and after 13 years of schooling
your life is set to change dramatically.

There is life after high school, and it is up to you what path you follow.

There are many options available for school leavers, but it is important to make
the right choice for you.

Life after high school? Visit careerfaqs.com.au for information and advice.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Campbelltown-Macarthur Advertiser

                          February 13, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Life after school

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 80

LENGTH: 365 words


" UNIVERSITY:

Many people choose to attend university.

For many careers a university degree is now a necessity.

University can help you increase learning in your chosen field, be it law,
medicine, communications/media, graphic design, theatre or history.

It can be difficult to choose a course, but once the choosing is out of the way,
more studies in the topic of your choice should be an enjoyable experience.

But university is not just about learning; it also offers a great social
adventure with many opportunities to join clubs, attend events and even take up
a new hobby.

" TAFE:

TAFE courses often offer a more industry based education program and can provide
a stepping stone into university.

If you are interested in various trades, hospitality or even hairdressing and
beauty, then choosing a TAFE course may be your best option.

Sometimes qualifications for TAFE and university overlap, so it is up to you to
choose what suits best - it may be a difference in course duration, or even
costs.

" PRIVATE COLLEGE:

For courses in IT, community services, design, beauty, tourism and much more,
there are many private colleges in Australia that may suit your needs. Some
private colleges can offer more flexible class options, or even a step towards
university.

" GETTING A JOB:

Often jumping straight into the workforce after school is good option.

Building experience is a great career starter and can help you eventually land
that dream job.

Keeping an eye on job advertisements and putting together a good resume is very
important.

" A GAP YEAR:

Whether you're jet-setting across the world, or earning money to help out with
uni fees people may choose to take a gap year after high school.

A well-earned break will give you great opportunities to gain life experience
and time to decide what you would like to do for the future.

LEAVING high school is a daunting experience and after 13 years of schooling
your life is set to change dramatically.

There is life after high school, and it is up to you what path you follow.

There are many options available for school leavers, but it is important to make
the right choice for you.

Life after high school? Visit careerfaqs.com.au for information and advice.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Camden Advertiser

                          February 13, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Life after school

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 80

LENGTH: 365 words


" UNIVERSITY:

Many people choose to attend university.

For many careers a university degree is now a necessity.

University can help you increase learning in your chosen field, be it law,
medicine, communications/media, graphic design, theatre or history.

It can be difficult to choose a course, but once the choosing is out of the way,
more studies in the topic of your choice should be an enjoyable experience.

But university is not just about learning; it also offers a great social
adventure with many opportunities to join clubs, attend events and even take up
a new hobby.

" TAFE:

TAFE courses often offer a more industry based education program and can provide
a stepping stone into university.

If you are interested in various trades, hospitality or even hairdressing and
beauty, then choosing a TAFE course may be your best option.

Sometimes qualifications for TAFE and university overlap, so it is up to you to
choose what suits best - it may be a difference in course duration, or even
costs.

" PRIVATE COLLEGE:

For courses in IT, community services, design, beauty, tourism and much more,
there are many private colleges in Australia that may suit your needs. Some
private colleges can offer more flexible class options, or even a step towards
university.

" GETTING A JOB:

Often jumping straight into the workforce after school is good option.

Building experience is a great career starter and can help you eventually land
that dream job.

Keeping an eye on job advertisements and putting together a good resume is very
important.

" A GAP YEAR:

Whether you're jet-setting across the world, or earning money to help out with
uni fees people may choose to take a gap year after high school.

A well-earned break will give you great opportunities to gain life experience
and time to decide what you would like to do for the future.

LEAVING high school is a daunting experience and after 13 years of schooling
your life is set to change dramatically.

There is life after high school, and it is up to you what path you follow.

There are many options available for school leavers, but it is important to make
the right choice for you.

Life after high school? Visit careerfaqs.com.au for information and advice.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                October 19, 1986, Sunday, SUNDAY SECOND EDITION

Get help choosing furniture at home show in Markham

SECTION: HOME; Pg. C9

LENGTH: 228 words


   Has the style of your furniture placed you in a time warp?

"Many people have difficulty choosing furniture and accessories that can make
the transition from one home or apartment to a new living environment," says
Linda McClaren, an instructor of interior decorating at Seneca College.

A specialist in period furniture and accessories, McClaren will present a series
of seminars entitled Choosing Furniture That Will Grow With Your Family, as part
of the Centre Stage Activities at the Markham Home Show.

McClaren will demonstrate how you can inexpensively update and polish the look
of your home through clever use of fabrics, furniture and accessories, while
reflecting the current lifestyle and needs of your family.

Sessions will be held Friday, Oct. 24 from 5.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m., and Saturday,
Oct. 25 from 11 a.m. to noon.

Also taking part in the Markham Home Show will be Susan Thom, another faculty
member of Seneca's interior decorating program.

Thom will offer tips on budget conscious re-decorating, as well as planning and
analyzing room layouts.

Her seminars will be held Saturday, Oct. 25 from 4 to 5 p.m., and Sunday, Oct.
26, from noon to 1 p.m.

The Markham Home Show takes place at the Markham Fairgrounds, McCowan Rd., north
of Highway 7.

Admission is $5 for adults, $3 for seniors and children under 12.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1986 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.

                              178 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            March 15, 2014 Saturday

What after HSC? Students planning their next move;
City students are on the threshold of an important phase of life

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 387  words


Vashi: The Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) examinations have almost come to
an end and as is the ritual, students have started hunting for career options.
As they will soon move out of school and set foot into colleges, a right
decision at the right time is essential to shape their careers positively.

Many students remain in the stream they opted in schools and pursue higher
education in professional courses like medicine or engineering. Nikhil Bhalerao,
a resident of Kharghar, is planning to join an engineering course. However, he
also wants to pursue a degree in Science. "While preparing for entrance
examination to bag a seat in an engineering college, I also want to pursue a
degree in pure science. This will help me save a year in case I do not get
admission in a good engineering college," said Bhalerao.

Jagriti Sahay wants to study French and has decided to join JNU in New Delhi. "I
checked different career options, and French was one of my subjects in higher
secondary. I want to explore it more deeply now," said Sahay. As the number of
seats offered by JNU is very low, she is searching another prestigious institute
for the same.

A right decision at this point is important and most city counsellors suggest
that students choose a career as per their interests. "Students should always
make analytical decisions and choose those subjects, which are of their
interest," said Siddarth Chavan, a city-based education counsellor.

However, most students are ebullient about joining a college and end up choosing
a stream their friend has chosen.

"Following their friends' footsteps in choosing a subject spoils their careers.
They should choose a career option that suits them," added Chavan.

Many a times, students take up a particular stream to keep the options open
after class XII. "This is the time to make a proper choice and pick from various
career options available. Depending upon students' aptitudes and interests, they
can switch to other course and career option," said Chavan.

Switching is possible to some extent in India. "Students studying science can
switch to commerce or arts and this helps them choosing a career option in civil
services as well. So, one should explore the college and course and carefully
look for the eligibility criteria to make the appropriate decision," concluded
Chavan.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Queanbeyan Age

                            January 11, 2013 Friday

2012 HSC top achievers

BYLINE: Kim Pham

SECTION: EARLY GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 407 words


QUEANBEYAN High School continue to find success with the College 3+3 program as
more students are now choosing to go on to tertiary education.

Principal John Clarke said about 30 per cent of year twelve students are
choosing to pursue university studies since they adopted the program six years
ago.

"It's been extremely successful, we've gone from 5 pc to 30 pc of students now
wanting to go on to uni," he said.

The College 3+3 model allows students to complete their HSC over two years.

"Students concentrate on three subjects at a time and they become experts in
those three subjects and with that achieve better results in the HSC," Mr Clarke
said.

One outstanding student from the year 2012 class was Charlotte Lembit whose high
scores allowed her entry into her first preference choice to study a Bachelor of
Art History and Curatorship at the ANU.

"I've always been interested in art, ever since I was little I thought it was an
interesting subject and hopefully one day I'll be able to work in an art
gallery," she said.

Miss Lembit achieved a band six in Ancient History, three band fives in Modern
History, Mathematics and Art, two band fours in Chemistry and Advanced English
and 25/50 for History Extension.

She said she was surprised but satisfied with her ATAR of 84.95.

"Some [results] weren't as good as I hoped, I thought I would do better in
advanced english but I'm happy overall," she said.

"I'm pretty happy with my ATAR as I didn't think it would be as high with the
marks I got."

Miss Lembit said spreading the HSC over two years allowed her to concentrate on
specific subjects. She was also lucky in that her final exams were more spread
out.

Her advice to other year 11 and 12 students completing the HSC was to stay
consistent.

"Even thought it's split into two years, you still need to stay focused and keep
on top of your work. If you miss classes it's hard to catch up," she said. "A
lot of people didn't try as hard in the first year but you have to remember to
stay consistent."

The 18-year-old hasn't been deterred from studying after two years of hard slog.

In fact, she said she is looking forward to university life and can't wait to
get stuck back into the books.

"I'm excited, I'm looking forward to being back in school. I miss it. I like
making notes and doing work," she said. "[With university] I can concentrate on
the things I like to study rather than studying for the sake of getting good
marks and things like that."

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Albert & Logan News (Australia)

                            March 28, 2007 Wednesday

Discipline a must

SECTION: Pg. 60

LENGTH: 214  words


A SURVEY of 4000 Queensland parents, including a number from three
non-government schools in Logan, has found discipline was one of the top reasons
for choosing an independent school for their children.

What Parents Want: Independent Schools Queensland Survey, revealed 72 per cent
of parents felt that preparing the student to fulfil their potential in life was
the major influence for choosing a non-government school.

This was closely followed by a belief independent schools provided good
discipline (68 per cent) and encouraged a responsible attitude to work (66 per
cent).

Independent Schools Queensland executive director John Roulston said the survey
showed that parents were looking for alternatives when it comes to education.

''Selecting which school your child will attend is one of the most important
decisions a parent can make,'' Dr Roulston said.

The most frequently cited reasons for moving students into an independent school
were ''poor discipline'', ''unhappy with school management/discipline policy''
or ''bullying''.

The Logan schools participating in the survey included Kingston's Groves
Christian College, Park Ridge's Parklands Christian College and Calvary
Christian College from Carbrook.

Waterford's Canterbury College and Yatala's Rivermount College also took part.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ALW


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday
                                   L2 Edition

CLC committed to

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1085 words


CLC committed to

meet growing needs

In the last few weeks, college students across the country have been returning
to campus, and a growing number of them are choosing community colleges.

This trend has certainly been seen at the College of Lake County, where
enrollment now stands at more than 18,000 students, having jumped by more than
1,700 students in the last two years.

Unquestionably, the state of the economy has played a role in the growth of
enrollments at community colleges, which charge much lower tuition than
four-year colleges and universities. At CLC this year, for example, tuition and
fees are $3,100 for a full-time students -- a far more affordable cost than the
$26,000 average for a private university or the $7,000 average for a public
university.

But I believe increasing numbers of students are choosing community colleges for
other reasons as well. Simply stated, students are well-prepared for the next
step in their lives -- whether that is transfer and completion of a bachelor's
degree or immediate entry into a career.

CLC students who transfer to the state's public universities generally do as
well or better than students who started at these schools. And, even in today's
difficult economy, career degree graduates are succeeding. In a 2010 survey of
these graduates, 69 percent of respondents available for employment were working
full time in their field of study, earning an average annual base salary of
$47,635. Little wonder that this same survey found that CLC's graduates give the
college a 99 percent satisfaction rating.

Maintaining the level of funding to support this high level of quality will be a
challenge as the state's dire fiscal condition continues, and we face the
effects of declining property values on local tax revenues. Nevertheless,
failure is not an option. More than 18,000 CLC students are depending on us, the
college's board, administration, faculty and staff.

Barbara D. Oilschlager

Grayslake

Chairman

CLC board of trustees

Vote for history

of success in Kirk

Here we go again, national politics have taken center stage in Illinois. Mud is
flying in every possible media outlet, and it's only going to escalate.

I have been particularly intrigued by the extremely tight race between Mark Kirk
and Alexi Giannoulias. Through the mud, I have been trying to find the
difference between the two and ultimately it comes down to comparing resumes.

Kirk has worked effectively as a member of Congress for a decade, as well as
working with the United Nations and serving honorably in the U.S. Navy.

Giannoulias on the other hand has failed as a banking executive in his family's
bank and failed as our state treasurer, losing enormous amounts of money in some
of our state's most protected investments.

While neither candidate is perfect, how can we give a promotion to a 35-year-old
man who hasn't succeeded in his career?

The choices might have some flaws, but we have to pick the guy who has a history
of success in Mark Kirk.

Adam Beeson

Gurnee

What are your views on Dist. 56 project?

The Gurnee School District 56 Board of Education has closely monitored public
scrutiny of its proposed building project. As part of a democratic society,
public debate and discussion are major components of the decision-making
process. The board welcomes that discussion and understands its duty to provide
a clear rationale for the project presented to the community.

Since it is frustrating to hear false and inaccurate information about the
project, the board would like to communicate facts about the project to the
community to reduce the misinformation that could result in an outcome that does
not reflect the will of the people. To that end, the board of education will
conduct its 11th community meeting regarding the building project at 7 p.m. Oct.
6 in the Viking School multipurpose room.

The purpose of the meeting will be to share factual information with, and answer
questions from, the community. The democratic process is by far the most
effective means of governance, and an informed electorate is the basis of a
strong democratic government.

The community is asked to attend the meeting to ensure that a well-informed
electorate judges the merit of this proposal on Nov. 2.

Heidi May

President

Gurnee School District 56

Board of Education

Democrats should

send clear message

Why are Republicans fighting to extend Bush's tax cuts for the wealthiest of
Americans? Because that's all they know how to do. But it really annoys me when
Democrats throw Americans under the bus when they think it will get them
elected.

I'm a small-business owner. We get hijacked all the time by politicians. Taxes,
jobs, the environment, health care, you name it -- both sides make their claim
and saying it will "hurt" small business owners if we don't do what they want.

Example: extending tax cuts for anyone earning over $250,000. It's a 3 percent
increase in the marginal tax rate! Does anyone really think that our behavior is
going to change by removing, or not, $30 from every $1000 starting with the
$251,000th.

And to say "our" behavior is lying, just like the politicians. There are about 6
million small businesses in the U.S. and about 3 percent of those generate
$250,000 or more for their owners. That's 180,000 vs. 6 million. So, 97 percent
of small business owners will not be affected by this decision.

Actually, that's not true either. 100 percent of small-business owners and 100
percent of Americans, present and future, will be affected by an extension in
the form of huge, resource-sucking deficits.

I wish Democrats would send a clear message that says: We are fighting for the
middle class and we are doing something about the national debt. That's when
they will earn my vote.

Dan Sherry

Barrington

Tell us where you'd like to cut spending

This is an open letter to the tea party supporters. All of those who want to
slash government spending, please tell us what programs you will cut.

The Bush administration cut funding for the Food and Drug Administration so
there were fewer people to monitor our food and drug supply. Actually we need
more -- think of peanut butter and eggs for example.

I know, let's cut assistance to the poor. If they starve to death the problem
will go away. Just be sure to keep lower taxes for the multimillionaires who
became billionaires outsourcing American jobs. I know those billionaires are
patriotic because they display American flags at headquarters buildings while
figuring out how to fire even more American workers.

George Blinick

Prospect Heights

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              182 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                          February 13, 2008 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

Election process isn't true democracy

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 187 words


I watched the Super Tuesday primary and caucus returns very closely. During the
coverage, this question was raised: "What could be done to increase voter
turnout?"

Do you want to know what is such a very big turn-off to our federal elections?
This delegate system for choosing the parties' nominees, and this archaic
Electoral College for choosing our - I repeat, our - president.

Are these outdated processes really upholding the "one person, one vote"
concept? Can these processes really be considered democracy in action? Have you
ever watched more than a couple of hours of television coverage of the national
nominating conventions? They look like frat parties on steroids! Again, is this
really democracy?

As for the outdated Electoral College, I had one heck of a time even
understanding it when I was in civics class in high school! After more than 200
years of electing presidents, isn't it well past time for each American voter to
count toward electing our president?

If our government truly wants more voter turnout, then I call for "one American,
one vote" - absolute democracy!

Timothy M. Bledsoe

North Augusta, S.C.

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            November 16, 2012 Friday

Dixie College seeking public's input in name change

BYLINE: Benjamin Wood Deseret News

LENGTH: 507 words


ST. GEORGE ? Dixie State College is seeking the public's input in choosing a new
name as the college prepares to become a university. Administrators at Dixie
anticipate receiving approval from the Utah  State Board of Regents and Utah
Legislature in January to transition  into a university for the 2013-14 academic
year, spokesman Steve  Johnson said.

With that goal in mind, officials have launched an online  survey asking for the
public's input in choosing the school's new name. The college is named for the
southwestern region of the state, commonly known as Utah's Dixie, but to many
the word brings to mind images of racism and slavery instead of red sandstone
landscapes. Since the school's founding in 1910, it has  transitioned through
six different names, Johnson said. Of those names, only the  first, St. George
Stake Academy, does not include the word "Dixie." "We understand there's a lot
of history and heritage," he said, "but we also understand the word 'Dixie' has
an entirely different connotation outside of Utah." For the survey, users are
asked to rate words like "Utah," "St. George," "Southwestern" and "Dixie" on
whether they should be included in the university's name. It also asks users
what factors influenced their rankings, such as the ability for the university
to have a national reach or the perception by potential students. The survey
went live Nov. 8, Johnson said, and so  far has accumulated 1,000 submissions.
He said the survey is open to anyone  and will be closed Dec. 14, the last day
of the fall semester. After that, the responses will be narrowed to three and
presented to the Dixie State College Board of Trustees. "There's been a pretty
healthy conversation across the board," Johnson said. "This process has been
very eye-opening." Student body president Brody Mikesell said the more he's
educated himself on the issue, the more he's convinced that "Dixie" needs to be
removed from the school's name. Mikesell said, in his role as president, he's
heard from black students who are offended by the name, and he's run into
resistance while giving recruiting presentations out of state. "It carries such
a heavy connotation that you can't just explain it away," he said. Johnson said
that while the administration will try to represent the community's wishes as
best as possible with the selection of a new name, the most important thing is
that the school continue to serve students and provide more opportunities for
learning in the future. "We are looking to rebrand ourselves as a university,"
hesaid. "Whichever (name) it is, it's not going to be as important as gaining
university status." Regardless of their opinion on the "Dixie" question,
Mikesell said he has yet to speak to a student who has apprehensions about
becoming a university. "It's really exciting," he said of the transition.
Enrollment at Dixie dipped slightly for the current academic year after  several
years of growth. Even with the latest drop, enrollment is up 57  percent since
2007. E-mail: benwood@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

                              184 of 997 DOCUMENTS



              Chinchilla News and Murilla Advertiser (Queensland)

                                August 25, 2016

Build on children's potential

BYLINE:  Nathan McDonald,

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 266  words


FOR parents with high school aged children, choosing which school will be most
suitable is an important decision.

In choosing a school, I encourage families to consider what kind of person they
wish their child to become. The clearer the vision parents have, the easier the
decision will be on which school fits the vision.

At our upcoming 2017 Secondary Information Evening from 7-8.30pm on Thursday,
September 1, there will be an opportunity for parents to explore the benefits of
a secondary education at Chinchilla Christian College.

At Chinchilla Christian College, we seek to provide students a safe and happy
environment for secondary school where strong, Christian values are promoted. We
aim to be a learning community where every student can shine - spiritually,
academically, emotionally, socially and physically.

We are passionate about offering a value for money educational alternative where
secondary students are engaged in their learning, enjoy positive relationships
with peers and achieve success at school.

The Christian College is excited to be growing in the Western Downs as it moves
into Year 11 next year, and Year 12 by 2018.

Being an independent school offering kindergarten to Year 11 next year on the
one campus, students are able to have a seamless transition as they move from
primary into secondary.

We ensure students going into the first year of secondary school feel safe and
confident. With a combination of caring teachers and smaller class sizes, our
pastoral care is strong and effective.

We are passionate about supporting our young people be all they can be.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TCN


                    Copyright 2016 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                           February 1, 2007 Thursday

Community colleges are an affordable option

BYLINE: Caitlin Wong

SECTION: SUPPLEMENTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 610 words


WHILE MOST HONG KONG students pursuing higher education in the United States opt
for a four-year university or college curriculum, more are choosing to enter
community colleges, which offer more affordable two-year foundation programmes
that can transfer to university studies.

Michelle Mak Sau-man,  director of the China-Hong Kong Institute of
International Education, said the number of Hong Kong students joining US higher
education institutions has been rising steadily in recent years, totalling 7,849
in the 2005-06 school year, which was up 9 per cent from the previous year. Hong
Kong's ranking as a place of origin for overseas students rose to 12th from 15th
in the previous year.

"Compared with a few years ago, the proportion of students choosing community
colleges has increased to 10 to 20 per cent of the total, while at least 60 per
cent go for universities," Ms Mak said.

She will chair a forum on the US higher education system during the Education &
Careers Expo's US Study Day on Saturday.

Community colleges are smaller than universities and have relatively easier
entrance requirements. Form Five graduates from Hong Kong are eligible to apply.

Ms Mak said the two-year transfer programmes at community colleges paralleled
the first two years of a four-year college or university course.  These colleges
also offered associate degree programmes, which generally prepared students for
getting a job.

"There has been a misconception that it is difficult to transfer from a
community college to a university. [But now] people understand better that this
is not a problem. They have become more receptive to community colleges."

She said another attractive feature of community colleges was their low tuition
fees which, with living costs, amounted to $130HK,000 to $140HK,000 a year,
compared with more than $200HK,000 a year for university studies.

Ms Mak said while some people thought the academic standards of community
colleges were low because of their open recruitment policy and lower admission
requirements, the objective of these colleges was to make higher education
accessible to all. She said that while their standards might vary, they were
generally good.

"Many Hong Kong parents still aspire to send their children to [well-known]
universities. While this is understandable, there are many different options
provided by the 4,000 higher education institutions in the US," she said.

"For example, liberal arts colleges are becoming popular. Like community
colleges, they are smaller in scale but their standards are just as good. They
have smaller classes, which means students get more attention from their
tutors."

Dawn Schrepel, consular officer at the US Consulate General in Hong Kong, which
will host a forum about visa applications at the expo, said local student visa
applicants were generally well qualified and the rate of successful application
was more than 90 per cent.

She said application procedures had been simplified and were straightforward,
and that a visa could be issued in a few days under normal circumstances.

Ms Schrepel said students and parents should try to shop around to find a
suitable institution rather than rely on word of mouth.

Ms Mak said students could seek advice about an institution from the Hong Kong
alumni association.

Students who are unfamiliar with the US could take summer study programmes to
get some experience.

"Culture shock is a common problem for newly arrived students and they may feel
homesick. Many universities have a support system to help international students
settle in. Students can help themselves by making friends to build up a support
system," Ms Mak said.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                 The Monroe County Reporter (Forsyth, Georgia)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                  June 3, 2015

Graduates, prepare for life-changing decision;
Pastors Corner

BYLINE: The Monroe County Reporter staff

LENGTH: 863  words


God blessed me with a myriad of blessings during my years at college. One of
those blessings took some time to develop. In fact this particular blessing of
which I am about to speak did not come until the end of my junior year.

Though we were both psychology majors and though we were both on the residence
hall staff, early in our college careers she was in a relationship, and I was in
a relationship too, which caused us not to take notice each other. But on one
fateful day, this brown-eyed, brown-haired beauty walked into the bookstore
where I was working and, well, the rest is history.

This blessing is the blessing of my wife, Patricia Dickson Watson. On Sunday,
May 31, God will have blessed us with 29 years of matrimonial bliss. I tell you
Patricia Anne deserves a trophy for tolerating me for the last 29 years. Let me
share with you the story about when we got engaged.

I was planning on asking her over

Christmas break to marry me, but she was talking about going home for Christmas
to Macon without me! So I got down on one knee and let her rip, "Pat, will you
marry me?" (I know, it was terribly unromantic.)

Before she said "yes" or "no" she gave me this brief but powerful lecture, "If
we get married," she said, "it means that we are going to be together for the
rest of our lives. Do you understand this?"

She scared me so bad all I could do is shake my head "Yes!" Then, I think she
said, 'Yes!" Choosing your mate matters! Now why would I bring up the choosing
of your mate on the occasion of your graduation from high school? Rest assured
I'm not trying to rush anything. The reason I am bringing this issue up is
because many of you over the next four or five or six years will meet the person
you will want to marry. Though I am unsure of the percentage, many college
students meet their prospective spouses at some point during their college
careers.

Though marriage is on the decline, let me remind you that marriage is God's
handiwork and of marriage God says what God has joined together let no man put
asunder.

God also says this about marriage in the Ten Commandments, "Do not commit
adultery." To be faithful to one's spouse is of paramount importance. This
commandment is about far more than this, though; God wants your marriage to be a
covenant between yourself, your spouse, and God. Nothing less will do.

Over the past century the concept of a covenant marriage has been tested in a
variety of ways, and all of these ways have come up lacking. In his book
"Changing our Mind," David Gushee speaks about this in a very profound way. He
places sexual ethics in three categories:

1) The mutual consent ethic, which is where people can do whatever they want to
sexually with whomever they want as long as the other person is able to
voluntarily consent to such acts. It is the 50 Shades of Gray ethic.

2) The loving relationship ethic which is to find a person to love and restrict
sex only to that person for as long as that relationship lasts.

3) The covenant-marital ethic which understands that it is God's design for
sexual ethics that persons make a binding lifetime marriage covenant with each
other and remain faithful to the promises of that covenant, including fidelity
and exclusivity, until one partner dies a natural death.

Dr. Gushee shares this summary statement:

The covenant-marital ethic formerly taught by Christian tradition gradually
collapsed in the mid-to-late 20th century. You can see it in the generations. My
father just buried my mother. They were married for 53 years. They did it right.
But few of the generation currently under 35 will ever see a 50-year marriage
again. My take is that the mutual consent ethic challenged the covenant-marital
ethic in the 1960's, and the effort of many to compromise with a loving
relationship ethic failed badly, producing only serial monogamy at best. But
marriage is not really marriage when it is serial monogamy, and the collapse of
the very concept of binding, faithful, lifetime covenant has weakened marriage
at its foundations. This collapse of the concept of lifetime covenant marriage
is without question the greatest sexual-familial ethical issue of our
time...(Gushee, P:103).

What I hear Dr. Gushee saying is, "Choosing your mate matters!" Choosing your
mate matters because when you choose your mate you get your best friend and
together you become the nucleus of the family.

Dear graduates, if you want to do one thing to make the world a better place,
then by the grace of God commit to a covenant marital ethic because choosing
one's mate matters and marriage is God's handiwork.

Okay, I have said enough. Some would say, "Darrell, you have said too much." I
have only said what I believe. And what I believe again is this: Choosing a mate
matters, and if you want to change your world, then by the grace of God accept
today a covenant-marital ethic, pack it up and take it to college with you and
be blessed with your own Patricia Anne for the rest of your life!

H. Darrell Watson is the pastor of First Baptist Church Forsyth. The Pastor's
Corner is sponsored by the Monroe County Ministerial Association, which meets on
the second Thursday of each month at Ann's Deli at 8 a.m.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Local Government

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MCR

                      Copyright 2015 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                   Copyright 2015 The Monroe County Reporter

                              187 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              LNP (Lancaster, PA)

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday

Smiles All Around;
Inside Online

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 237  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


Parents of student-athletes at Warwick High School line up to shoot pictures of
their sons and daughters as they formally announce which universities and
colleges they will be attending in the fall. Below, students at Donegal High
School, left, and Penn Manor High School gather to celebrate. The scene was
repeated at high schools across Lancaster County on Wednesday.

"It was everything I was looking for between the academics and the amazing
lacrosse program that they have."

- Manheim Township's Emily McBride, on choosing the University of Virginia

"It was a big relief off the shoulders, because the recruiting process, it's
very long, but it's also very fun."

- Warwick's David Lucas, on choosing Penn State for track and field

"I worked hard in high school and I wanted it to translate to the collegiate
level. Cornell has one of the best academic and athletic traditions."

-Hempfield's Zach Ward, who will play lacrosse in college

"All the hard work we put in ever since we would start playing our sport, its
like a payoff. Getting to that next level is like a goal and this signified
that."

- Penn Manor's Zeb Pfeiffer, who will wrestle at Ursinus

Full coverage of National Signing Day at Lancaster County's high schools and how
Penn State fared with its recruiting class.

n Sports, page C1

For additional content on National Signing Day, including photo galleries,
videos and a school-by-school list, visit lancasteronline.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rstaff casey Kreide
Nstaff Laura Eckert THOMPso
Astaff Dan Marschk

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 LNP Media Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              LNP (Lancaster, PA)

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday

Smiles All Around;
Inside Online

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 237  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


Parents of student-athletes at Warwick High School line up to shoot pictures of
their sons and daughters as they formally announce which universities and
colleges they will be attending in the fall. Below, students at Donegal High
School, left, and Penn Manor High School gather to celebrate. The scene was
repeated at high schools across Lancaster County on Wednesday.

"It was everything I was looking for between the academics and the amazing
lacrosse program that they have."

- Manheim Township's Emily McBride, on choosing the University of Virginia

"It was a big relief off the shoulders, because the recruiting process, it's
very long, but it's also very fun."

- Warwick's David Lucas, on choosing Penn State for track and field

"I worked hard in high school and I wanted it to translate to the collegiate
level. Cornell has one of the best academic and athletic traditions."

-Hempfield's Zach Ward, who will play lacrosse in college

"All the hard work we put in ever since we would start playing our sport, its
like a payoff. Getting to that next level is like a goal and this signified
that."

- Penn Manor's Zeb Pfeiffer, who will wrestle at Ursinus

Full coverage of National Signing Day at Lancaster County's high schools and how
Penn State fared with its recruiting class.

n Sports, page C1

For additional content on National Signing Day, including photo galleries,
videos and a school-by-school list, visit lancasteronline.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rstaff casey Kreide
Nstaff Laura Eckert THOMPso
Astaff Dan Marschk

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 LNP Media Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 21, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MULLIN'S DECISION ON COACH SOUNDS SO WRONG, IT FEELS RIGHT

BYLINE: TIM KAWAKAMI column

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 826 words


Two mini-miracles, one week:

In a shocking development, Chris Mullin sported a suntan in public for the first
time possibly since birth.

And, preparing to pluck Mike Montgomery from Stanford to be the franchise's next
coach, Mullin made the Warriors the focus of spirited national discussion for
the first time since Latrell Sprewell's fingers were pried loose from P.J.
Carlesimo's upper torso.

That's a lot to accomplish in a few days, even if Mullin's tan was more blazing
crimson -- Cardinal, perhaps? -- than actual tan.

"Sunburn," Mullin said, shaking his head Thursday and pointing to a particularly
radiant blotch on his forehead. "Ten minutes" out in the sun, he said, "that's
it."

Everything about Mullin seems to stand out these days, which may not be exactly
why owner Chris Cohan hired him as executive vice president but definitely makes
for a recharged mood in Warriorland.

Suddenly, with the soon-to-be-announced Montgomery decision, Mullin is a
lightning rod and a revolutionary, either a grandstander or a genius. Somebody
who doesn't know history or somebody who is so smart that he can do the
absolutely wrong thing and make it turn out right.

Choosing Montgomery, who has no NBA experience and does not seem to have a
personality ideally suited to maintaining long-term relationships with teenage
millionaires, has made the Warriors' upcoming season one of the most fascinating
sports experiments in recent Bay Area memory.

Choosing Montgomery ignores the horrid track record of big-name college coaches
moving to the NBA and invites rampant second-guessing of Mullin and of Cohan's
decision to turn the franchise over to him.

So wrong, it just feels right.

Each negative about Montgomery-to-the-NBA, of course, has a valid counterpoint:
Montgomery is adept at tinkering his schemes to his personnel; he recruited Mike
Dunleavy and Troy Murphy and respects their games; the NBA is getting so young
that college-style teachers are needed; he's at an age (57) that he is primed
for a second wind.

Several college and NBA people I talked with Thursday said they had no doubt
that Montgomery is one of the top X-and-O men and said that his ability to adapt
to a new environment is underestimated.

But, yes, I wonder, too, if Montgomery has the temperament to absorb 45 losses,
badgering by agents, twice-daily media sessions, posses, limousines, talk-radio
thunder . . .

Here's a perfectionist who thought Casey Jacobsen and Curtis Borchardt -- two of
the nicest NBA players you will meet -- were slightly too self-involved and
inhibited for proper team play.

But once again, maybe Montgomery is so far removed from the ideal NBA profile
that he's exactly right: He's ready for strong-willed NBA veterans because
Stanford kids aren't exactly robots who do anything they're asked; he can
flourish in the pros because he can make players better and they always respond
to that.

It's up to Mullin to guarantee that the world knows he has Montgomery's back
every milli-second, which is the same thing Jerry West does for Hubie Brown in
Memphis.

Choosing Montgomery is brave, visionary or stupid or parts of all three,which is
why I like the choice. Choosing Montgomery means that Mullin can't back down or
ask for a mulligan.

Thursday afternoon, Mullin met the media to formally announce the
long-anticipated firing of Eric Musselman and the semi-surprise hiring of Rod
Higgins as general manager and Mullin "right-hand man."

Montgomery's official hiring should come today, though the murmuring and
head-scratching will last for months, if not years.

But this week has really been about the unveiling of Mullin's vision for the
Warriors and for his own role.

Because the hiring is such a leap of faith, Montgomery has to be given four
years to make this work and to validate Mullin. There can't be any moment of
doubt from the front office, none of the self-protecting politics that haunted
each of the past seven Warriors coaches.

Don Nelson was the last Warriors coach to survive more than 300 games before
being dumped, and that run ended in 1995 after the Chris Webber debacle. Since
then, seven coaches have coached 743 games, with zero playoff appearances and a
winning percentage of .336.

Musselman had to be fired because he was the perfect Warriors coach of the past
-- focused only on the short-term and chronically unwilling to accept
responsibility for even the tiniest failure; Mullin, meanwhile, appears to have
a vision so broad that Higgins probably is penciled in as the coach once
Montgomery's contract is up in 2008.

So here we go: If Nick Van Exel refuses to run Montgomery's offense . . . or
Jason Richardson skips a practice . . . or Mickael Pietrus curses out his
teammates in French . . . Mullin can't seek a divorce from Montgomery.

Or else the whole reconstruction of the Warriors might slide right down the
tubes, again, for all of the same old wrong reasons.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                          February 25, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Preparation for college starts in third year and transition year

BYLINE: AOIFE WALSH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 709 words


Leaving Cert year is always an important year in the process of entering third
level, but student preparation begins much earlier than this. During third year
and transition year (TY), students begin to consider carefully what subjects
they may take for Leaving Cert. The decision to take or drop certain subjects
may have an impact on post-Leaving Cert opportunities, but, more importantly,
can influence how a student performs at Leaving Cert overall.

Here are three considerations to help students make good choices for Leaving
Cert: CHOOSE WHAT YOU LIKE Every subject at Leaving Cert is challenging. Most
schools offer five class periods a week for each subject; in addition, students
should be doing two to three hours further study in their own time. This means
students will be spending a lot of time engaging in subjects for the next two
years. By choosing subjects that they like, they will find studying easier, and
even enjoyable.

Students who study subjects that they enjoy are likely to perform better in
those subjects, such as achieving higher grades at Leaving Cert and higher CAO
points. Having higher points means that students will have more options after
Leaving Cert and will be able to compete for access to more courses.

Students are also likely to pursue third level courses that are related to
subjects they enjoyed at school. Therefore, by choosing subjects they will
enjoy, students are likely to be choosing what they may need as well.

CHOOSE WHAT YOU ARE GOOD AT All students hope to achieve the best possible
Leaving Cert that they can. One way students can maximise their results is by
playing to their strengths. Similarly, students often hope to pursue areas at
third level in which they have been successful at school. It is likely that by
choosing subjects they are good at, they are also choosing subjects relevant to
future study or work There are a number of ways in which young people can gauge
their strengths. Firstly, consider Junior Certificate results, if they are
available. It is important not only to look at the subjects in which the student
achieved the highest grades, but also why student performed best in these.
Perhaps the subject was taught by a favourite teacher, perhaps a large project
component helped.

At this stage, many students will also have participated in some aptitude
testing. It is important to consider these results and discuss them with someone
who is able to interpret them and discuss them, such as a guidance counsellor.
Other testing is available on www.careersportal.ie.

Finally, students should consider their hobbies and interests, subjects they
have taken in TY and should speak to their families and friends.

THINK ABOUT WHAT YOU MAY NEED Depending on the study area of interest, there are
several subjects that may be required for entry to third level. However, often
these requirements are less complex than originally thought. Students should
spend about 80pc of their time considering what they like and what they are good
at, and 20pc considering what they need.

If students have ideas about what they would like to study after school, they
should research the entry requirements for these courses thoroughly in different
institutions.

If students are not clear on what they would like to study at third level, they
should research the requirements for a different areas and consider common
themes. This can be done on www.qualifax.ie, where entering key words will throw
up a list of relevant courses and their descriptions. Students should pay
particular attention when considering choices in the areas of languages,
sciences and technical subjects.

IMPORTANT DATES FEBRUARY 25? Dunboyne College of Further Education: Open Day ?
Irish College of Humanities and Applied Sciences: Open Day ? UCAS 2015: Extra
begins FEBRUARY 27? Ormonde College of Further Education: Closing date,
applications for first round of interviews FEBRUARY 28? HPAT Ireland test MARCH
1? Closing date for amending CAO course choices online ((EURO)10 fee ) ? Closing
date for final completion of online CAO HEAR/DARE forms MARCH 4? Mountbellew
Agricultural College: Open day MARCH 5? DIT: Portfolio submission dates for art,
design and printing (2 days) ? Westport College of Further Education: Open Day

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2015 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 18, 2011 Monday

Bad economy has teens changing their spending habits

BYLINE: By Fiona Man Contra Costa Times Teen Correspondent

SECTION: TEENS; News; Lifestyle

LENGTH: 598 words


It's been a few years since the economy went south, and it doesn't seem to be
improving much. Everything is increasing in cost, especially gas prices, college
tuition and even bridge tolls.

Not exactly. These tough times also have affected teenagers. Like adults, teens
are making sacrifices and changes to their lifestyles to adjust to this
struggling economy. High school seniors are choosing to sit out certain events
to save money.

"I chose to sacrifice homecoming, Snow Ball and senior boat cruise. I didn't
even go out or host a party for my 18th birthday," says Darlena Chiem, a senior
at Hercules High School.

With gas prices over $4 per gallon in the Bay Area, some teens have cut their
driving significantly and others have switched to more fuel efficient cars.

"The economy did play a part in the decision to just stay home. I keep driving
to a minimum and carpool with friends more often now that gas prices are
skyrocketing," says Cathie Tu, a senior at Hercules.

However, if seniors already have difficulty paying for senior events and gas,
what about college tuition? According to savingforcollege.com, the average
2010-2011 tuition increase was 4.5 percent at private colleges, and 7.9 percent
at public universities. In addition, the estimated costs per year at a
University of California is about $30,000 with room and board. Due to these
increasing costs, teens are having second thoughts about choosing their dream
colleges and are opting for a less expensive education at community colleges.
Some are even sacrificing the college experience and commuting to school rather
than dorming.

"I did not apply to any UCs this year because my parents said it would be
cheaper to get my general education classes done at a community college," says
Melissa Fong, a senior at Hercules.

In addition, Jordan Del Rosario, a senior at De Anza High School in Richmond,
says, "I have decided to go to a state university instead of a UC in hopes that
it won't leave me with too much debt."

School isn't the only place teens are feeling the pinch. Some have changed their
extracurricular habits.

"I am definitely a girl that likes to shop. But now, I try to shop from sale
racks and avoid looking at full-priced items in fear that I will force myself to
buy it," Rosario says. "I also think shopping at thrift stores is a good idea.
Sure, there are a lot of old things, but things are constantly being donated and
a lot of newer fashions show up that can be incorporated into wardrobes."

Rather than spending money on restaurants that cost over $10 a meal, Kelisha
Gardeen is saving her money. "I only eat out on special occasions like birthdays
and celebrations," the Pinole Valley senior says.

As for the movies, teens are finding that movie nights at home with friends and
family are much better ways to save money than going out. With Netflix ( NFLX )
at only $10 a month and $1-per-night DVD rentals offered at Redbox, teens still
get a movie to enjoy that does not break the bank.

"Honestly, I never go to the movies now unless my ticket is being paid for. If I
really have to see a movie in the theaters, I go to the first showing when it is
only $6.50," Rosario says.

Although there are many other ways to be frugal, the main word teens need to
remember is "save."

"Spend smart. Before buying something, ask yourself if you truly need it. Can
you live without it? Where could that money go and be more effective?" Chiem
says.

The Life in Perspective board is made up of teens who write columns and features
for TimeOut. Fiona Man attends Hercules High School. Reach her at
lip@bayareanewsgroup.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education

                             April 17, 2011  Sunday

Selected New Books on Higher Education

BYLINE: Compiled by Nina C. Ayoub

SECTION: PUBLISHING; Faculty

LENGTH: 427  words


Black Greek-Letter Organizations 2.0: New Directions in the Study of African
American Fraternities and Sororities, edited by Matthew W. Hughey and Gregory S.
Parks (University Press of Mississippi; 342 pages; $50). Empirical essays on
such topics as faith and fraternalism, student identity, masculinity, and image
construction in black fraternities, and "appearance enforcement" in black
sororities.

From Command to Community: A New Approach to Leadership Education in Colleges
and Universities, edited by Nicholas V. Longo and Cynthia M. Gibson (Tufts
University Press/University Press of New England; 288 pages; $85 hardcover,
$29.95 paperback). Develops an idea of leadership education through civic
engagement; case studies include programs at Tufts, the University of Denver,
and, grouped together, Stanford University, the University of Massachusetts, and
Providence College.

Joining the Mission: A Guide for (Mainly) New College Faculty, by Susan
VanZanten (Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Company; 211 pages; $24). Offers advice to
faculty members joining Christian colleges and universities; topics include the
notion of "faithful scholarship."

The New Digital Shoreline: How Web 2.0 and Millennials Are Revolutionizing
Higher Education, by Roger McHaney (Stylus Publishing; 248 pages; $75 hardcover,
$29.95 paperback). Explores such topics as social media and learning, engaging
the "tech savvy millennial" in the classroom, and the impact of e-readers and
tablet computers on the future of the textbook.

Panicked Student's Guide to Choosing a College Major: How to Confidently Pick
Your Ideal Path, by Laurence Shatkin (JIST Publishing; 213 pages; $14.95).
Offers brief, basic information on 120 majors and related job prospects; also
discusses choosing majors based on personality types, and describes how students
can relate their favorite high-school course to college choices.

Smart Leadership for Higher Education in Difficult Times, edited by David W.
Breneman and Paul J. Yakoboski (Edward Elgar Publishing; 224 pages; $99.95).
Includes writings by presidents, chancellors, and other senior administrators on
what is termed the "new normal" of higher education in the wake of demographic
change, globalization, and the economic crisis; topics include potential lessons
from for-profit institutions.

A Survival Guide for New Faculty Members Outlining the Keys to Success for
Promotion and Tenure, by Jeffrey P. Bakken and Cynthia G. Simpson (Charles C.
Thomas; 244 pages; $55.95 hardcover, $35.95 paperback). Offers tips on teaching,
research, and service.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 5733-higher-ed-books

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                             March 13, 2006 Monday

Deciding factors

BYLINE: CASEY SHAPIRO; St. Mary's High School

SECTION: TEEN PULSE; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 566  words


In the fall or spring semester of senior year, an anxious 17 or 18-year-old is
forced to make the dramatic and life-altering decision of choosing a college to
attend for the next four years. Picking a school to study and live at for the
next few years can be a daunting challenge. By carefully considering several
factors, students can narrow their choices and make their college selection
process advance more smoothly.

The most obvious factor to consider is academics, as the student is primarily
there to study and obtain a degree. Researching various majors and minors the
school has to offer can be a helpful way of deciding if the college would be a
good match. By visiting the college's Web site, a student can zero in on certain
majors and courses that appeal to them. A savvy student should also find out
what the college considers acceptable for prospective students in terms of
grades, standardized test scores and extracurricular activities.

The size of a college or university, whether it is large or small, can be an
influencing factor as well. A college will be a student's home as well as their
school so living comfortably and happily is something to consider. The location
of a college can also come into play when making a decision. Some students are
looking for the experience of a big city while others are content to immerse
themselves in a school set in a rural location. "Location and a campus visit
definitely decided it for me," says Alexandra Kuntz, a St. Mary's senior headed
to Colgate University. "I loved the small-town where it is located (Hamilton,
N.Y.) and I found the campus to be beautiful."

Some students are not afraid to admit that social life and athletics are key
deciding factors when choosing a school. These days, most colleges and
universities offer dozens, and sometimes hundreds of clubs and organizations for
students to join. Sports can range from intramural leagues to Division I
competition. Some applicants, though not athletes, are looking for the
camaraderie of a big name school with a nationally-ranked sports team.

David Gibson, College Counselor at St. Mary's High School, has firm beliefs as
to what influences students in their college choice. "I believe there are two
factors that close the deal for students.

"First, an on-campus visit is crucial and will influence the student immensely
when deciding if the school is a good fit.

"Second, I believe that a student is influenced by how they are treated by the
school during the application process."

Some students have found their contact with a school to be warm and attentive,
while others can find the process impersonal.

Finally, it's impossible to ignore that last major factor: the bottom line.
Tuition and room and board costs of a school may be the only thing some students
consider as they look at schools.

Researching financial aid packages and the school's individual policy will make
for a more educated assessment of whether the school is affordably an option.

The dilemma of choosing a college or university can be a scary and thrilling
experience. By visiting a school, conducting in-depth research, and considering
what is most important to them, a student can ensure an educated decision.

Most students are able to come to a satisfying conclusion that will lead them to
have a great college experience and hopefully a degree that will enable them to
pursue the job of their dreams.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2006 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily - Africa Weekly

                                 June 10, 2014

More grads opting to start own businesses

BYLINE: Zhao Xinying

LENGTH: 631  words


The percentage of Chinese college graduates choosing to start their own
businesses has risen for three consecutive years, a survey shows.

Graduates use posters to promote themselves at a job fair in Bozhou, Anhui
province, on Sunday. The percentage of college graduates opting to start their
own businesses has risen for three years running and the average monthly salary
of self-employed graduates is higher than those working for others, a survey
shows. Liu Qinli / for China Daily

The percentage of Chinese college graduates choosing to start their own
businesses has risen for three consecutive years, a survey shows.

It also found that the average monthly salary of self-employed graduates is
higher than those who are not.

Of the college students who graduated in 2013, 2.3 percent started their own
business, higher than the figure for 2012 (2 percent), 2011 (1.6 percent) and
2010 (1.5 percent).

This is according to the 2014 Chinese College Graduates' Employment Annual
Report, released on Monday by MyCOS, an education consulting and research
institute in Beijing.

The survey polled 268,000 graduates from 28 provinces and regions.

Chen Yu, vice-president of the China Association for Employment Promotion, said
the increase results from government efforts in recent years to support
graduates in starting their own businesses, such as reduced intervention, the
offer of micro loans and cuts in taxes and fees.

"These measures provide a good environment for college graduates who intend to
start their own businesses," Chen said.

The survey also found the education sector is graduates' preferred choice when
they decide to start a business, with 15 percent of them choosing to begin their
careers in this area.

Other areas, including retail, wholesale, architecture, media, information and
telecoms, are among the top choices.

Feng Lijuan, chief consultant at 51job.com, a major recruiting website in China,
said starting a business in these fields is comparatively easier and college
graduates have a bigger chance of keeping their businesses going.

"The education sector, especially test-oriented training, is expanding quickly
in China and therefore college graduates, as a group of highly educated people,
can easily find a place in it," Feng said.

As for the retail and wholesale industries, Feng said a series of online trading
websites such as taobao.com provide a simple and convenient platform for college
graduates to establish their own online stores.

The report shows that only 8 percent of self-employed college graduates started
their own businesses because of difficulty in landing jobs, while 48 percent did
so because they wanted to become entrepreneurs.

Other reasons include having good entrepreneurial ideas, being invited by
friends or peers to start a business together and believing in the income
prospects of entrepreneurship.

The report said college students who started their own businesses after
graduating in 2010 now earn an average of 8,424 yuan ($1,349) a month, 41
percent higher than the average for all college students who graduated that
year.

Despite the good incomes earned by college graduate entrepreneurs, experts
voiced concern for such businesses.

Feng believes that real entrepreneurship lies in innovative developments in
areas such as the high-tech sector.

"But most Chinese college graduates can't make it with their current knowledge
structure and therefore most of the Chinese graduate entrepreneurs end up in the
service industry."

Chen said, "An ideal entrepreneurship program can solve the problem of college
graduates' employment and also create new industries and promote the development
of the economy, science and technology, just like Steve Jobs and Apple did."

zhaoxinying@chinadaily.com.cn

Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1497


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday

More grads opting to start own businesses

BYLINE: Zhao Xinying

LENGTH: 631  words


The percentage of Chinese college graduates choosing to start their own
businesses has risen for three consecutive years, a survey shows.

Graduates use posters to promote themselves at a job fair in Bozhou, Anhui
province, on Sunday. The percentage of college graduates opting to start their
own businesses has risen for three years running and the average monthly salary
of self-employed graduates is higher than those working for others, a survey
shows. Liu Qinli / for China Daily

The percentage of Chinese college graduates choosing to start their own
businesses has risen for three consecutive years, a survey shows.

It also found that the average monthly salary of self-employed graduates is
higher than those who are not.

Of the college students who graduated in 2013, 2.3 percent started their own
business, higher than the figure for 2012 (2 percent), 2011 (1.6 percent) and
2010 (1.5 percent).

This is according to the 2014 Chinese College Graduates' Employment Annual
Report, released on Monday by MyCOS, an education consulting and research
institute in Beijing.

The survey polled 268,000 graduates from 28 provinces and regions.

Chen Yu, vice-president of the China Association for Employment Promotion, said
the increase results from government efforts in recent years to support
graduates in starting their own businesses, such as reduced intervention, the
offer of micro loans and cuts in taxes and fees.

"These measures provide a good environment for college graduates who intend to
start their own businesses," Chen said.

The survey also found the education sector is graduates' preferred choice when
they decide to start a business, with 15 percent of them choosing to begin their
careers in this area.

Other areas, including retail, wholesale, architecture, media, information and
telecoms, are among the top choices.

Feng Lijuan, chief consultant at 51job.com, a major recruiting website in China,
said starting a business in these fields is comparatively easier and college
graduates have a bigger chance of keeping their businesses going.

"The education sector, especially test-oriented training, is expanding quickly
in China and therefore college graduates, as a group of highly educated people,
can easily find a place in it," Feng said.

As for the retail and wholesale industries, Feng said a series of online trading
websites such as taobao.com provide a simple and convenient platform for college
graduates to establish their own online stores.

The report shows that only 8 percent of self-employed college graduates started
their own businesses because of difficulty in landing jobs, while 48 percent did
so because they wanted to become entrepreneurs.

Other reasons include having good entrepreneurial ideas, being invited by
friends or peers to start a business together and believing in the income
prospects of entrepreneurship.

The report said college students who started their own businesses after
graduating in 2010 now earn an average of 8,424 yuan ($1,349) a month, 41
percent higher than the average for all college students who graduated that
year.

Despite the good incomes earned by college graduate entrepreneurs, experts
voiced concern for such businesses.

Feng believes that real entrepreneurship lies in innovative developments in
areas such as the high-tech sector.

"But most Chinese college graduates can't make it with their current knowledge
structure and therefore most of the Chinese graduate entrepreneurs end up in the
service industry."

Chen said, "An ideal entrepreneurship program can solve the problem of college
graduates' employment and also create new industries and promote the development
of the economy, science and technology, just like Steve Jobs and Apple did."

zhaoxinying@chinadaily.com.cn

Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           September 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

One of the capital's best-kept secrets;
Advertising Feature ; Is your daughter looking for an outstanding sixth form?
Coloma Sixth Form in Croydon is among the best for its choice of A-levels,
quality of education, and range of extra-curricular activities, says Niki
Chesworth

BYLINE: Niki Chesworth

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 800 words


CHOOSING a sixth form can be harder than choosing a secondary school. Not only
is there more choice, as you aren't restricted by catchment areas, there is also
pressure to make the right choice at a critical time in your child's education.

If you haven't been through the process of choosing a sixth form before, there
are a few things you might not realise. The first is that many schools have a
limited choice of A-levels.

The second is that the larger sixth form schools and colleges usually timetable
subjects into blocks. If subject choices clash, it can mean pupils cannot study
all of the A-levels they want. Then there is the fact that students may be left
to flounder in a large, impersonal college or sixth form, without the support
they benefited from at school.

However, if you and your daughter live within commuting distance of Croydon, you
can avoid all of these issues.

AN OUTSTANDING EDUCATION Girls at Coloma Sixth Form, rated outstanding, not only
benefit from a wide choice of A-level courses, they receive the support to
succeed in a happy and positive learning environment, as well as unrivalled
opportunities to develop as an individual. "We offer 30 different A-levels, from
German and psychology to music, computing, physics and economics and we do not
block subjects like other sixth forms," says headteacher Maureen Martin, who has
been awarded an OBE for services to education. "Our pupils tell us what they
want to study and we try to accommodate their wishes."

Students may also undertake an Extended Project Qualification.

The quality of teaching at A-level is also vitally important. At Coloma, pupils
consistently achieve great results, with the vast majority going on to
university, including 40 per cent to top Russell Group institutions and an
impressive number to Oxbridge.

However, sixth form has to be more than just about academic results. It provides
a bridge between being a school pupil and a university student, and so parents
should also look at a sixth form's offering when it comes to nonacademic
opportunities too.

This is where Coloma Sixth Form really stands out. Pupils are encouraged to get
involved in charity work, including with a primary school in Mbarara, Uganda run
by the same congregation of religious sisters who have been running Coloma since
1869, and an annual fundraising week led by Year 13 students.

Then there is the outstanding music offering. More than 500 girls sing in the
school's various choirs and in November, Coloma students will be performing
twice at the Royal Albert Hall. Pupils have an opportunity to play a variety of
instruments, with the school holding 40 concerts throughout the year.

Coloma also offers the Combined Cadet Force as an extra-curricular activity, as
well as Duke of Edinburgh Awards, along with more than 60 different clubs
helping pupils gain skills such as teamwork, commitment and resilience.

GOING THE EXTRA MILE Coloma is strong on sports, with all Year 12s doing PE. The
school has been recognised as the top girls' comprehensive school for sport in
the country, with girls participating in 23 different competitive sports.

Trips and tours are numerous. This summer as well as a trip to Berlin, there has
been a netball tour to South Africa and next summer, girls will go on a music
tour to New York.

Girls also benefit from careers advice, with former students from a wide variety
of professions including medicine, accountancy, engineering and law, regularly
returning to inform and inspire the next generation. The sixth form's Social,
Health and RS Education programme is aligned with extensive careers education,
UCAS preparation, advice and guidance which gives girls the support, knowledge
and confidence to take the next step successfully.

"We prepare our girls for life after A-levels, as well as for the exams
themselves, providing an excellent foundation on both a personal and academic
level," says Mrs Martin.

Niki Chesworth THE COLOMA DIFFERENCE ¦¦Coloma Sixth Form in Croydon has an
intake of 150 girls each year to Year 12.

Although it is the sixth form of the Coloma Convent Girls' School, a
voluntary-aided Catholic comprehensive school, those from all faith backgrounds
are welcomed.

It offers 30 different A-level subjects, with girls studying four AS-levels in
Year 12 and usually going on to take three A-levels in Year 13.

Coloma has an outstanding provision of extra-curricular ¦¦activities, including
sports, art, music and much more.

Coloma is situated in beautiful grounds a short 466 bus ride from East Croydon
railway, bus and Tramlink station.

Coloma Sixth Form is holding an open evening on Tuesday October 11 from 7pm to
9pm. On Saturday October 15, from 10am to 12 noon, there will be an open morning
for prospective Year 7s and for post-16s.

Find out more at coloma.croydon.

www.sch.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Right results: students at Coloma Sixth Form do well in their A-level
studies, with four in 10 going on to Russell Group universities

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2016 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                Moorabbin Glen Eira/Kingston Leader (Australia)

                            June 20, 2007 Wednesday
                                  MSV Edition

A year off helps

BYLINE: Suzana Talevski

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 320  words


NINETY-three per cent of secondary school students in Kingston last year
received tertiary offers, new data has revealed.

Figures from the Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre showed Mentone Girls'
Grammar School topped the table with 98 per cent of students being offered a
place.

At Mordialloc College, 75 per cent of students were offered a place the lowest
of all schools in Kingston.

The Department of Education On Track survey figures show the graduating class of
2006 at Mordialloc College preferred getting a job to further education. More
public school students than private school students are choosing to enter the
workforce straight after school, Mordialloc College leading the way with 36 per
cent of its students employed.

More private school students are enrolled at university with more public school
students taking up vocational education in TAFE or VET courses.

Ten per cent of Year 12 students at Westall Secondary College were looking for
work after choosing not to study the highest in Kingston.

Cheltenham Secondary College principal Peter Corkill said he was delighted with
his school achieving a 90 per cent success rate when it came to tertiary offers.

''Most of our kids end up in some type of further education and that's wonderful
to see,'' Mr Corkill said.

''I'm really pleased that we can now track each and every student. It's vitally
important that we continue to do that so we ensure our kids have a pathway into
further education and employment.'' Stephanie Hof, a former student from
Mentone's Kilbreda College, said her secondary school years helped shape a
pathway for her.

Ms Hof is now studying multimedia at Deakin University.

''We had a pretty good range of subjects at school, and especially with the IT
component, it really helped that I knew some things already,'' the Dingley
student said.

''I took a year off and just thought about what I wanted to do. I needed
motivation,'' Ms Hof said.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: MSV


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily - Africa Weekly

                                 June 10, 2014

More grads still opting to start own businesses

BYLINE: ZHAO XINYING

LENGTH: 632  words


The percentage of Chinese college graduates choosing to start their own
businesses has risen for three consecutive years, a survey shows.

Graduates use posters to promote themselves at a job fair in Bozhou, Anhui
province, on Sunday. The percentage of college graduates opting to start their
own businesses has risen for three years running and the average monthly salary
of self-employed graduates is higher than those working for others, a survey
shows. [Photo by Liu Qinli/For China Daily]

The percentage of Chinese college graduates choosing to start their own
businesses has risen for three consecutive years, a survey shows.

It also found that the average monthly salary of self-employed graduates is
higher than those who are not.

Of the college students who graduated in 2013, 2.3 percent started their own
business, higher than the figure for 2012 (2 percent), 2011 (1.6 percent) and
2010 (1.5 percent).

This is according to the 2014 Chinese College Graduates' Employment Annual
Report, released on Monday by MyCOS, an education consulting and research
institute in Beijing.

The survey polled 268,000 graduates from 28 provinces and regions.

Chen Yu, vice-president of the China Association for Employment Promotion, said
the increase results from government efforts in recent years to support
graduates in starting their own businesses, such as reduced intervention, the
offer of micro loans and cuts in taxes and fees.

"These measures provide a good environment for college graduates who intend to
start their own businesses," Chen said.

The survey also found the education sector is graduates' preferred choice when
they decide to start a business, with 15 percent of them choosing to begin their
careers in this area.

Other areas, including retail, wholesale, architecture, media, information and
telecoms, are among the top choices.

Feng Lijuan, chief consultant at 51job.com, a major recruiting website in China,
said starting a business in these fields is comparatively easier and college
graduates have a bigger chance of keeping their businesses going.

"The education sector, especially test-oriented training, is expanding quickly
in China and therefore college graduates, as a group of highly educated people,
can easily find a place in it," Feng said.

As for the retail and wholesale industries, Feng said a series of online trading
websites such as taobao.com provide a simple and convenient platform for college
graduates to establish their own online stores.

The report shows that only 8 percent of self-employed college graduates started
their own businesses because of difficulty in landing jobs, while 48 percent did
so because they wanted to become entrepreneurs.

Other reasons include having good entrepreneurial ideas, being invited by
friends or peers to start a business together and believing in the income
prospects of entrepreneurship.

The report said college students who started their own businesses after
graduating in 2010 now earn an average of 8,424 yuan ($1,349) a month, 41
percent higher than the average for all college students who graduated that
year.

Despite the good incomes earned by college graduate entrepreneurs, experts
voiced concern for such businesses.

Feng believes that real entrepreneurship lies in innovative developments in
areas such as the high-tech sector.

"But most Chinese college graduates can't make it with their current knowledge
structure and therefore most of the Chinese graduate entrepreneurs end up in the
service industry."

Chen said, "An ideal entrepreneurship program can solve the problem of college
graduates' employment and also create new industries and promote the development
of the economy, science and technology, just like Steve Jobs and Apple did."

zhaoxinying@chinadaily.com.cn

Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1497


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Morris Daily Herald (Illinois)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             August 18, 2017 Friday

BRIEF: What are the odds Queen of Hearts hasn't been pulled?

BYLINE: Alex Ortiz, Morris Daily Herald, Ill.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 209 words


Aug. 18--Where is that lady hiding?

Since the Morris VFW Queen of Hearts game is down to its last three numbers, the
chances for whomever gets their ticket pulled choosing the queen is pretty good
(1 out of 3 in the first round, 1 out of 2 if it goes to Round 2).

But what are the chances that the Queen of Hearts has not been selected by this
point, 51 cards in? We asked a mathematics professor at Joliet Junior College,
Dr. Heidi Lyne about the statistical probability.

She explained in order to get to the chance that the Queen of Hearts would not
have been picked, you could multiply the chances of not choosing it each week.

(53/54) x (52/53) x (51/52) ... (5/6) x (4/5) x (})

But to make it more simple, you can cancel the numerators (the number on top of
the fraction) and denominators (the number on the bottom) with the same value so
that the sequence reduces to 3/54. That fraction translates to about a 5.55
percent chance the Queen of Hearts would not have already been drawn.

In other words, there is about a 94.44 percent chance the Queen of Hearts should
have been picked already.

___ (c)2017 Morris Daily Herald (Morris, Ill.) Visit the Morris Daily Herald
(Morris, Ill.) at www.morrisdailyherald.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20170818-1MO-BRF-What-are-the-odds-Queen-of-Hearts-hasn-t-been-pulled-20170818

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1MO


                       Copyright 2017 Morris Daily Herald

                              200 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 3, 2015 Tuesday

Massachusetts: Harvard backs diverse campus communities

LENGTH: 779  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Boston: Harvard Grazette College, The State of Massachusetts has issued the
following news release:



 Arguing for the freedom of colleges and universities to continue to use a
well-rounded admissions process that considers the whole person to build diverse
campus communities, Harvard University today filed an amicus brief with the U.S.
Supreme Court in the case of Fisher v. University of Texas (UT) at Austin.





 Abigail Fisher, who brought the suit, and her supporters seek to eliminate
colleges' ability to consider racial and ethnic background as one aspect of a
much larger evaluation when choosing among otherwise academically qualified
applicants. UT and other colleges, including Harvard, say that diverse
educational experiences and interaction with people from different backgrounds
are critical for preparing students for an increasingly diverse society and
workforce. Oral arguments are scheduled for Dec. 9.



 While Harvard has no direct involvement in the case, it has consistently
contended in similar briefs filed in this and other court cases that a diverse
student body is an essential part of creating a diverse educational experience
that will better prepare graduates for future success.



 &ldquo;To become leaders in our diverse society, students today must have the
ability to work with people from different backgrounds, life experiences, and
perspectives,&rdquo; said Robert Iuliano, Harvard's senior vice president and
general counsel. &ldquo;Many colleges across America -- including Harvard
College -- receive applications from far more highly qualified individuals each
year than they can possibly admit.



 &ldquo;When choosing among academically qualified applicants, colleges must
continue to have the freedom and flexibility to consider each person's unique
background and life experiences in order to provide the rigorous, enriching, and
diverse campus environments that expand the horizons of all students. In doing
so, American higher education institutions can continue to give every
undergraduate exposure to peers with a deep and wide variety of academic
interests, viewpoints, and talents in order to better challenge their own
assumptions and develop the skills they need to succeed, and to lead, in an ever
more diverse workforce and an increasingly interconnected world.&rdquo;



 In 2008, Fisher, a white student denied admission to UT, began litigation
against the university, protesting its consideration of racial and ethnic
background as one of many factors in deciding which academically qualified
students to admit. In previous decisions in 1978 and 2003, the Supreme Court had
agreed that institutions have a compelling interest in admitting students from
all walks of life in order to expose all students to others from different
backgrounds. But the court also ruled that any admissions policy designed to
create a diverse campus must be narrowly tailored to achieve that goal.



 In 2012, the Supreme Court overturned the decision of the 5th Circuit Court of
Appeals, which had upheld UT's admissions policy, and sent the case back to that
court for a second look. Writing for the majority, Associate Justice Anthony
Kennedy argued that the lower courts had failed to strictly scrutinize whether
UT's use of racial and ethnic background was narrowly tailored to achieve the
university's educational goals. After reviewing the case again last year, the
5th Circuit Court of Appeals again ruled in favor of UT. Fisher and her
supporters quickly appealed, and the Supreme Court agreed this June to hear the
case a second time.



 &ldquo;It is more apparent now than ever that maintaining a diverse student
body is essential to Harvard's goals of providing its students with the most
robust educational experience possible on campus and preparing its graduates to
thrive in a complex and stunningly diverse nation and world,&rdquo; Harvard's
brief reads. &ldquo;These goals, moreover, are not held by Harvard alone, but
are shared by many other universities that, like Harvard, have seen through
decades of experience the transformative importance of student body diversity on
the educational process. This court should therefore reaffirm its longstanding
deference to universities' academic judgment that diversity serves vital
educational goals.&rdquo;



 Earlier this year, supporters of Fisher, who hope to curtail universities'
freedom to create diverse educational experiences for qualified students,
brought similar litigation against Harvard.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                            August 3, 2017 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Choosing the right course for your future;
Springboard+ guidance counsellor, Joan O'Reilly, tells us her five tips on
finding the right Springboard+ course

SECTION: SPRING BOARD;NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 886 words


Choosing the right course can be a daunting task. Maybe you've always wanted to
be a web developer, or you've dreamed of being an animator. Perhaps becoming an
entrepreneur is what you were always meant to do. There are so many choices that
you're bound to feel overwhelmed.

The right course can lead you down a new, exciting career path so it is best to
take your time, and choose wisely.

Springboard+ guidance counsellor, Joan O'Reilly, helps people every day who call
the Springboard+ Freephone helpline for guidance on their career choices, so she
knows exactly what help people need.

"Picking the right course is unique to every individual," says Joan. "Many
callers to the Springboard+ helpline have a clear vision of what they want and
may just need a sounding board to ensure they are on the right path. Others may
have no idea where to start. They just get overwhelmed by the amount of courses
on offer and the pressure of choosing the right one. Usually, they have the
answers within and our job is to facilitate them in recognising them."

Here are Joan's five tips for choosing the right course: RESEARCH YOUR OPTIONS
"Looking at what's available is the first step," says Joan. "Research should be
at the very top of the list. The various colleges that facilitate Springboard+
provide course information on the Springboard+ website, and we recommend
contacting them directly. We've had excellent feedback from people who have
successfully completed their Springboard+ course and are now working in their
chosen field. Others told us they made their choice too hastily, therefore,
research is the most important first step. "It's about going on the website,
looking into the details of the courses on offer, and attending the colleges'
information evenings.

Most colleges have careers offices and information days, and there are numerous
websites and testimonials from past students on the Springboard+ website that
can help people."

The more informed you are about the course, the better.

FOLLOW YOUR PASSION Finding a course that speaks to your interests and what
you're passionate about is incredibly important. If you have an interest in film
or games, why not consider an animation course? Or, if you want to help develop
new technologies for diseases, consider studying pharmaceutical or medical
devices technologies. "We help to match a course to a person based on their
ability, experience and their interest," says Joan. "Having an interest is the
most important piece and being passionate about your chosen field makes the work
and effort much easier. If you are currently working and wish to upskill,
consider the aspects of your job you enjoy most and look at further developing
these skills to adapt or enhance your future career prospects. It's always good
to have a passion or innate interest in the field you choose."BE GUIDED THROUGH
YOUR CHOICES The Springboard+ guidance service is a free service to guide
prospective students to decide on the best options available to them. Also, the
colleges have their own dedicated Springboard+ contacts.

"There's lots of support," says Joan. "The Springboard+ guidance helpline is
open from Monday to Friday from 9.30am - 4.30pm. We provide impartial advice and
explore all the options available, and your chosen course will include a career
development module and job hunting tips, CVs, interview skills etc. The
Springboard+ blog also provides hints and tips in these areas."

The Springboard+ information day is taking place on Saturday 19th August, so
there will be an opportunity to meet with representatives from the colleges and
www.industries.BE SELF-AWARE This year, Springboard+ has expanded and now offers
all courses to homemakers. Courses are also available to those in employment who
wish to upskill in the biopharma/medtech and ICT sectors.

"Many homemakers we speak with have a history of work and qualifications that
they feel may be out of date. We explore their options and guide them through
the process before they are ready to submit their applications," says Joan.

"It is important for them to think carefully about the transferrable skills that
can be brought into their new career, identify where they may have a skills gap
and then choose a suitable course to prepare them for job readiness. Many people
are afraid of making that leap, and even though they're motivated to return to
the workforce, they feel their skills are outdated."

HAVE NO FEAR Applying for a course is a big step so it's likely you will have
anxiety about taking that leap back into education. Lacking confidence in your
abilities and qualifications is a common problem, but this shouldn't prevent you
from applying.

"Many people, especially those who have been out of the workplace for a while
may not realise that they are just out of practice," says Joan. "Returning to
education will give them the confidence they need to progress and the means to
finding that dream job. Our role is to help people through the process, and the
initial research and investigation is crucial to taking that first step."

For more information on course choices and applications, contact the
Springboard+ Freephone helpline on 1800 303 523

WE EXPLORE THEIR  ;  ;  OPTIONS AND GUIDE  ;  ;  THEM THROUGH THE  ;  ;  PROCESS
BEFORE THEY  ;  ;  ARE READY TO SUBMIT  ;  ;  THEIR APPLICATIONS ;

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           November 8, 2014 Saturday

Two-year mission Excavating the best of Irish art

BYLINE: Conor Goodman

SECTION: WEEKEND; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 511 words


Over the next two years, Modern Ireland in 100 Artworks, which begins today with
a profile of James Joyce's 'A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man', will
assess the creative output of modern Ireland from the revolutionary period to
today.

Modern Ireland in 100 Artworks is a collaboration between 'The Irish Times' and
the Royal Irish Academy. A panel of experts convened by the academy has chosen a
single Irish artwork - book, painting, sculpture, play, poem or building - for
each year from 1916 to 2015. Every Saturday Fintan O'Toole and panel members
will profile one of these works in 'The Irish Times', finishing, in late 2016,
with a work from 2015.

The 100 artworks will be drawn from the literary and visual arts. We will not
neglect other areas of creative endeavour, however. As the project progresses we
will also periodically include  separate strands on 100 years of Irish music and
song, Irish humour and Irish film.

The 100 works have been chosen by two panels of experts. Choosing the literary
works were Eibhear Walshe (University College Cork), Chris Morash (Dublin City
University), MÃ¡irÃ­n Nic Eoin (St Patrick's College Drumcondra) and Anne
Fogarty (University College Dublin). The art and architecture panel consisted of
Catherine Marshall (coeditor of volume 5 of 'Art and Architecture of Ireland'),
Ellen Rowley and Hugh Campbell (coeditors of volume 4 of 'Art and Architecture
of Ireland') and Paula Murphy (editor of volume 3 of 'Art and Architecture of
Ireland').

The number of core genres has been kept deliberately small, but there were still
keen debates between and within the panels.

And choosing one work for each year gave the series a simple structure but also
threw up problems. Some years were creative deserts. Others saw the creation of
a number of significant works, such as James Joyce's 'Finnegans Wake' and Evie
Hone's 'My Four Green Fields' in 1939. Choosing was not always easy.

It was a relief when the panel members could agree on a work that encompassed
both literary and visual genres, such as Thomas Kinsella's translation of the
TÃ¡in, in 1969, with illustrations by Louis le Brocquy.

The final artwork in the series - from the year 2015 - has not been created yet.
As the project draws to a close we will ask 'Irish Times' readers to help us
select from that year a creative work that deserves a place along with the other
99. So what begins today as a historical project can become a discussion about
the arts in modern Ireland.

Readers can take part in the series each week. Every article will list other
works considered for that year and invite online comment on the merits and
demerits of the panel's choice.

All 100 profiles will be collected on irishtimes.com, along with images, reader
debates and related articles.

This is the second such collaboration between 'The Irish Times' and the Royal
Irish Academy, which previously  coproduced the newspaper series and book 'A
History of Ireland in 100 Objects'.

You can get more information from the Royal Irish Academy's Dictionary of Irish
Biography, at ria.ie

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                             June 11, 2011 Saturday
                                  Main Edition

ObituariesCounty by county Expanded news coverage from your community. B4-5;
In Brief

BYLINE: Ariel Hart, Laura Diamond, Nancy Badertscher; Staff

SECTION: METRO NEWS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 389 words


TRANSPORTATION

Outreach begins on metro referendum

The Atlanta Regional Roundtable Monday is kicking off a massive public outreach
effort, as the group starts choosing transportation projects for a sales tax
referendum next year.

In 2012, the 10-county Atlanta region will vote in a referendum on a list of
projects and a 1 percent sales tax to fund them. The roundtable is choosing the
project list.

Through June 22, the roundtable will hold telephone town halls, where residents
can listen in as their leaders discuss the referendum, and can stay on the line
to ask questions or make suggestions. ARIEL HART

HIGHER EDUCATION

List of colleges offering bachelor degrees grows

Two more two-year colleges will offer a limited number of bachelor degrees,
under action the State Board of Regents took this week.

South Georgia College will offer a bachelor of science in nursing and East
Georgia College will offer a baccalaureate in biology.

Last month the regents allowed Darton, Atlanta Metropolitan, Georgia Highlands
and Georgia Perimeter to offer some four-year degrees.

LAURA DIAMOND

CONSERVATION

Nature Conservancy gets $1 million gift

The Nature Conservancy's "Georgia for Generations" campaign is receiving $1
million from the James M. Cox Foundation, Cox Enterprises announced Friday. The
gift will be given over four years, at $250,000 a year. "The James M. Cox
Foundation and Cox Enterprises have supported The Nature Conservancy for more
than 20 years, and the 'Georgia for Generations' campaign allows us to make a
lasting impact by protecting and conserving our state's natural resources for
future generations," said Jim Kennedy, chairman of Cox Enterprises and honorary
co-chair of the "Georgia for Generations" $25 million campaign. The foundation's
gift is added to a $1 million donation from Jim and Sarah Kennedy, who actively
support multiple environmental organizations. To date, more than $16 million has
been raised. Cox Enterprises is an Atlanta-based communications, auto services
and media company with holdings that include The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
NANCY BADERTSCHER

Obituaries

Georgian received Scouts' highest honor

Kenneth Tabb mentored many young men as an adult Scout leader. B6

Vent of the day

Why is it that no matter how far away I park from a building, someone always
takes the space next to mine? More Vent, B2

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2011 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                              204 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                January 9, 2012

Medical specialties to develop list of unnecessary procedures

BYLINE: By Carolyne Krupa, amednews staff. Posted Jan. 9, 2012.

SECTION: PROFESSION

LENGTH: 606 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Choosing Wisely initiative aims to educate physicians and
patients about questionable tests and reduce wasted health care.


Nine medical specialty societies are joining with the American Board of Internal
Medicine Foundation and Consumer Reports to curtail waste in health care and
improve patient outcomes.

As much as 30% of U.S. health care is squandered on unnecessary tests,
procedures, hospital stays and other services, according to the Congressional
Budget Office. Such services don't benefit patients, and in some cases may harm
them.

Groups participating in the Choosing Wisely initiative will develop a list of
questionable tests and procedures, said Christine K. Cassel, MD, president and
CEO of the ABIM Foundation.

"In this current health care environment, everyone is concerned about rising
health care costs," she said. "It is a time for both physicians and patients to
have better information at their fingertips."

U.S. health care spending is projected to reach $4.6 trillion by 2020 and
comprise nearly 20% of the nation's gross domestic product, according to the
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.

Several factors may contribute to misuse of medical tests and procedures,
including a lack of guidelines for many clinical problems, physician habits and
patient expectations, said Dr. Virginia L. Hood, MPH, president of the American
College of Physicians, which is participating in the effort.

The initiative's goal is to fuel discussion and help educate physicians and
patients about responsible allocation of finite health care resources, Dr.
Cassel said. Each specialty organization will develop a list of five potentially
unnecessary tests and procedures that are costly, commonly used in their
specialty, or both. Each recommendation must be supported by research and will
be revised as new evidence arises.

The initial list will be available in April, but Dr. Cassel said it will expand
over time as other medical specialties join the effort. "We're not done yet.
This is just the first nine," she said. "We're very interested in hearing from
specialists who may want to participate."

Targeting misuse

Consumer Reports' role will be to help translate the lists for patients, said
John Santa, MD, MPH, director of the Consumer Reports Health Ratings Center. The
company has done similar work on other health topics, including a February 2011
report rating different heart disease prevention tests.

"We believe that when consumers are patients, they want the right amount of care
-- not too much nor too little," Dr. Santa said. "People are especially
concerned about care that may not be effective but expose them to risks,
directly or indirectly."

Medical specialty organizations participating in the initiative are: the ACP;
American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology; American Academy of Family
Physicians; American College of Cardiology; American College of Radiology;
American Gastroenterological Assn.; American Society of Clinical Oncology;
American Society of Nephrology; and American Society of Nuclear Cardiology.

The idea for the initiative came from the National Physicians Alliance, which
piloted a similar project in 2009. The alliance is a nonprofit education and
research organization focused on helping physicians provide high-quality,
affordable care.

Exactly how the Choosing Wisely information will be disseminated hasn't been
decided, Dr. Cassel said.

"The Choosing Wisely campaign will help patients and health care providers
consider the value of care options, a crucial step in addressing escalating
costs and ensuring that all Americans have access to high-quality care," said
Allen S. Lichter, MD, CEO of the American Society of Clinical Oncology.

Weblink

Choosing Wisely initiative (www.choosingwisely.org)

Back to top

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            February 7, 2010 Sunday

Brunei: Parents need to guide children in choosing future career

LENGTH: 491  words

DATELINE: Brunei


Brunei, Feb. 07 -- STUDENTS must work with their parents and teachers to give
themselves the best chance of getting into a good university, said a career
counsellor at Paduka Seri Begawan Sultan Science College (Maktab Sains)
yesterday.According to our correspondend, career counsellor and a teacher at the
college Raymond George said that parents need to help their children make one of
the most important decisions of their life choosing the right university.Over a
hundred parents attended the briefing on career guidance, scholarship and
university applications.This is the first time that the college has held such a
briefing for parents of upper sixth form students.'It is important to listen to
your children and talk to them about what they want," said George."But at the
same time parents and children's concerns are very different. "He highlighted
some of the concerns parents might have such as a safe, friendly environment,
the availability of halal food and the academic prestige of an
institution.George said that many students make the fatal mistake of picking the
wrong course.He said parents and students alike must be forward thinking when it
comes to choosing a course."A lot of jobs that will be needed in 10-15 years
time don't exist now.

A good idea is to look at the five cluster areas identified by Brunei Economic
Development Board (BEDB) that the government will be pumping money into in the
future. That is where future jobs lie," he said.So far, three areas that have
been identified for further industry development are ecotourism, IT services,
ethanol and methanol manufacturing.George also advised parents to look at the
wide range of government scholarships outside the Ministry of Education such as
Sultan's Scholars and Royal Brunei Armed Forces, which are very competitive and
carried a high level of prestige.Hjh Siti Fatimah Pg Hj Petra, head of the
career guidance section, said that teachers will prep students on interview
questions and techniques ahead of their university and scholarship
interviews.She stressed that the timeline for planning and preparation begins
now as students will face a series of tough challenges in the year ahead dealing
with "A" level examinations, interviews, writing personal statements as well as
university applications."It's not enough these days to have good "A" levels. You
must have a great personal statement and show enthusiasm for the course you wish
to undertake," she said.He encouraged parents to visit the Universities &
Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) website to understand the application process
better.For students applying to local institutes such as Universiti Brunei
Darussalam (UBD) and Institut Teknologi Brunei (ITB), the Ministry of Education
now has a website www.hecas.edu.bn. Published by HT Syndication with permission
from Right Vision News. For more information on news feed please contact
Sarabjit Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday

Electoral College seals Trump victory

BYLINE: MICHAEL WILNER/Jerusalem Post correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 284 words


WASHINGTON - The constitutional body officially tasked with choosing the
president of the United States secured Donald Trump's victory on Monday,
rebuffing a movement to dislodge its members from their pledges to reflect state
popular votes.

Trump earned the requisite 270 votes from the Electoral College to secure him
the presidency. One Republican elector from Texas defected, citing concerns with
Trump's conflicts of interest and Russia's attempted interference in the
election.

Another two Republican electors, from Georgia and Minnesota, tried to abstain
from lodging votes. But they were immediately replaced with new electors by the
Republican parties of their respective states.

Their efforts were insufficient for a group calling itself the Hamilton
electors, after American founding father Alexander Hamilton who helped design
the Electoral College, which had hoped to convince 37 Republican electors to
either abstain or vote for another Republican, which would have sent the
election to be chosen by the House of Representatives.

The votes will be counted during a joint session of Congress on January 6. It is
highly unlikely the vote will change the outcome of the November 8 election,
which gave the White House to Trump after he won a majority of Electoral College
votes.

The Electoral College was established in 1787 and is mandated by the US
Constitution. It assigns each state electors equal to its number of
representatives and senators in Congress.

When voters go to the polls to cast a ballot for president, they are actually
choosing a presidential candidate's preferred slate of electors for their state.

A candidate must secure 270 votes to win. Trump won 306 electors from 30 states.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: AN ELECTOR casts her ballot for Donald Trump at the Pennsylvania
State Capitol in Harrisburg yesterday. (Credit: Jonathan Ernst/Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                 Independent Tribune (Concord, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 31, 2009 Friday

RCCC leaders expect more students

BYLINE: Jessica Groover, Independent Tribune, Concord, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 538 words


Jul. 31--As early registration for fall classes ends today, Rowan-Cabarrus
Community College is expecting its highest enrollment.

"Today, we have almost 5,100 students who have registered early," said Gaye
McConnell, RCCC vice president for student services, on Thursday. "Typically, 11
percent will not finalize registration. We think we'll have more than 6,000
students."

And there will still be two days of late registration on both campuses in
Concord and Salisbury on Aug. 11 and 12, though McConnell said many classes are
already full.

The estimate for this fall's enrollment is 3 percent higher than last fall's.

The community college was already anticipating this increase after the spring
2009 semester had 900 more students enroll, compared to last year, said Jeff
Lowrance, college relations director for RCCC.

The amount of students in the summer semester increased by more than 50 percent,
compared to last year.

RCCC has attributed the rise in enrollment to the economy.

"It's predominately driven by changes in the economy, downsizing with Philip
Morris and the rise in unemployment, which puts more people in retraining,"
McConnell said.

The community college has also noticed more of the 18- to 22-year-olds choosing
to attend RCCC instead of a four-year school. Lowrance said many parents have
been out of work or lost investments to pay for tuition, and the community
college is less expensive.

"They are choosing to stay home and save dollars," McConnell said. "We are
becoming more of their first choice, and not their second choice in the way of
education."

To address the rising enrollment numbers, the community college is offering more
online courses and increasing class sections, if necessary.

"If we have to, we will add sections, but (the class) would have to have a
significant number of students wanting to (enroll)," Lowrance said.

He added that rising enrollment numbers are not limited to one area. All
programs across the board are experiencing higher amounts of enrollment.

Another way the community college is addressing the increased need is by
offering "JobsNOW 12-in-6" programs in September and October.

"Those are designed for folks out of work now and looking to get retrained
quickly," Lowrance said. "They are condensed and intense for training of six
months or less."

The 13 certificate programs are administrative professional; air conditioning,
heating and refrigeration; basic supervision; biotechnology; brick masonry;
customer service; electronics engineering; light construction/carpentry; nurse
aide; pharmacy technician; small business office management; welding technology;
and wiring and national electric code.

For more information about JobsNOW, call 704-216-7201.

For more information about RCCC class registration, call 704-216-3593 or
704-216-3637.

To see more of the Independent Tribune or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.independenttribune.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Independent Tribune,
Concord, N.C. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090731-IP-RCCC-leaders-expect-more-students-0731

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IP


                       Copyright 2009 Independent Tribune

                              208 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             April 16, 2013 Tuesday

Delhi University clears air on choice of college

BYLINE: Manash Pratim Gohain

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 370 words


NEW DELHI: Delhi University's four-year undergraduate programme will let
aspirants walk into any college as long as they meet the cutoff criterion.
Instead of choosing colleges during the pre-admission registration process, the
candidates will now have to just fill the marks and indicate choice of courses.

Calling the choice of college system "redundant", vice chancellor Dinesh Singh
has said the new system would help aspirants as they would not be left out of
option like earlier. "Our aim is to simplify the procedure. As per the new
scheme, every student gets to study an honours course. So the students this year
will mark the choice of their honours courses (Discipline 1) during
registration. Choice of college is redundant here. After the cutoffs are
declared, students can approach the colleges where they are within the ambit of
eligibility," said Singh.

Under the old system, students ran the risk of being left without a college if
they didn't meet the cutoff eligibility in the colleges of their choice.

During the 2011-12 admissions, both the registration process and the choice of
colleges were done away with, leading to a high first cutoff and low admissions

in the first list. The subsequent chaos had prompted DU to revert to the
centralized registration method in the 2012-13 admissions.

But Singh is confident that the colleges can come up with a cutoff list that can
lead to completion of the admission process for the general category students in
three-four lists. "Two years ago we had no idea about the number of students and
their marks. But now we will have the marks and the choice of course and
colleges, if they want, can work out a methodology to come out with a far more
realistic cutoff. In fact, several colleges have been completing their admission
process by the end of the second list year on year in majority of their
courses," he said.

"This is a new system and students need to be patient. DU being a central
university, students come from across the country. The flexibility of
registering both online and offline as well as choosing the college following
the cutoff list is an advantage to these students," said career counsellor Zubin
Malhotra.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 3, 2013 Saturday

SUNYIT ranked 35th Best College for the Money in the nation

LENGTH: 426  words

DATELINE: St Utica


State University of New York Institute of Technology at Utica/Rome has issued
the following news release:

SUNYIT has been named 35th in a nationwide "Best Colleges for the Money" ranking
of more than 1,200 institutions evaluated by College Factual, an online guide to
the college selection process.

SUNYIT's ranking reflects its academic quality and economic value, based on the
cost of obtaining an undergraduate degree. College Factual uses a number of
outcomes-based factors to determine its rankings, such as average student loan
debt per student, loan default rates, how well an institution retains and
graduates students, and graduates' starting salaries and earning potential.

"With a record number of freshmen arriving on campus in just a few weeks, this
ranking is another reminder why more students are choosing SUNYIT," said
Jennifer Ninh, director of admissions. "As New York's public polytechnic, SUNYIT
is becoming a college of choice for an increasing number of students from across
the state and all over the region looking for both quality and affordability."

College Factual's ranking system is based on a series of algorithms that include
information from the Department of Education, nationally mandated data reporting
for institutions and Payscale.
"College rankings lists are a dime a dozen and often rely on data that provides
limited value. We publish rankings to get students and parents thinking about
key factors they need to consider when choosing a college," said Bill Phelan,
CEO of College Factual. "How long will it take you to graduate? How much debt
will you incur? How much money will you make? We highlight important factors
such as these in our rankings to help build personalized lists, which is the
ultimate goal in any college selection process."

SUNYIT, the State University of New York Institute of Technology at Utica/Rome,
is New York's public polytechnic, offering undergraduate and graduate degree
programs in technology and professional studies. Its academic offerings in
technology, including engineering, cybersecurity, computer science, and the
engineering technologies, and its programs in professional studies, including
business, communication, and nursing, are complemented by athletics,
recreational, cultural and campus life programs, events and activities. Founded
in 1966, SUNYIT is a unique high-tech learning environment on hundreds of acres,
offering degree programs online as well as on campus. The SUNYIT family of
alumni now numbers 25,000.

For more information please visit: http://www.sunyit.edu.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                             June 11, 2016 Saturday

What to look for while choosing a college

LENGTH: 753 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, June 11 -- Many of you must already be looking at different colleges
now that your board exam results are coming out any day.

It's a bewildering and exhausting experience when you are going through
different colleges and all they have to offer but you can't make up your mind.
With so many colleges in the 'market,' it's quite confusing and hard to decide
on a college. And finding a good college without certain guidelines is like
searching a needle in a haystack. Following are some factors you might want to
check before enrolling into a college.

Physical infrastructures of the college

For many students, a great physical infrastructure is one of the first things
they look for while choosing a college. A great infrastructure is not just how
big or nice the college building looks but the facilities it offers students. At
the least, colleges should have a good library and well equipped science and
computer labs. The library must host good novels, newspapers, and magazines and
not just course books. If everything seems good but you are not convinced by the
small size of the college then consider how the small classrooms can provide a
cozy and interactive atmosphere.

Extracurricular activities

There is a very popular saying 'All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.' So
check if your college gives you an opportunity to flourish your extra skills.
For instance, if you are the sporty type, find out if a college prioritizes
sports or not. The same goes for those who are into performing arts or art. A
college that takes care of your extracurricular interests and encourages those
talents should be your first choice. You can even find out if the college has
organized, participated in or won any inter-college competitions.

Strong faculty

What makes a college good is the team of exceptional teachers who are devoted to
helping students find the right track for their future. Teachers must do more
than follow the same old teaching methods and explore creative ways to teach
their students. The better the teachers, the better will be the production of
quality students.

Talk to the college alumni

Made up your mind to study in a particular college? Why not have a chit-chat
with an alumnus or alumna of the college? You get to know a lot about the
college environment, its teachers and maybe some drawbacks (if any) when you
interact with previous students. The alumni will be able to describe the college
way better than the college prospectus ever can. So, don't hesitate to talk to
former students if you get the chance.

Location matters

It has turned out that the college location also matters a lot all thanks to the
sudden strikes that turn our daily routines upside down. Unless it is a college
you have your heart set out on, it would be smarter to select one that is closer
to home. Some colleges do not recognize strikes and expect students to make it
to class. You don't want to miss out on classes or attendance. Location also
matters because you wouldn't like to study somewhere where the dust or noise
pollution is really high. In addition, you should have easy access to
transportation facilities.

Check the hostel facilities

If you are a student coming to the capital for your studies and you expect to
live in the college hostel, make sure you check the hostel facilities as well.
Your college of choice should have a good hostel where you can live, study and
thrive well. The hostel should have good clean dormitories, nutritious and
delicious food, and a caring warden to make your living arrangements pleasant.

Major subjects

As a student you choose subjects that you like or the one you believe can help
you shape your future. When choosing a college, make it a priority to opt for
one that has a great faculty for the subject you want to study.

Jobs placement through college

Many colleges today boast internships and jobs placement after the completion of
the course. If this idea appeals to you then look for colleges that promise it
all. However, don't simply take the college administration at their word but
make sure they follow through. To do that, you can talk to the college graduates
who are supposed to have landed jobs or at least got the opportunity to sit for
job interviews arranged by the college. They will be able to give you a clear
picture of what you can actually expect.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday

MSMU Ranks in Top 25 in the Region: U.S. News and World Report Best Colleges

LENGTH: 398  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Frederick: Mount St. Mary's University issued the following news release:



  For the 6th year in a row, Mount St. Mary's University is ranked among the
North region's top 25 top colleges and universities by U.S. News & World Report.
MSMU placed 22nd among 130 institutions in the region and second among
Maryland's eight other public and private regional universities.





 &ldquo;We are honored to be recognized by U.S. News & World Report as one of
the nation's best colleges,&rdquo; said Michael Post, MSMU's vice president for
enrollment management. &ldquo;Rankings like these are the direct result of a
tremendous amount of hard work and dedication from the Mount community, and our
unrelenting commitment to providing the very best academic experience.&rdquo;



 The U.S. News rankings focus on academic excellence, with schools ranked based
on 16 measures of academic quality. The rankings emphasize outcomes, with
graduation and retention rates carrying the most weight in the methodology at 30
percent. MSMU placed second in alumni giving with 22 percent annual
participation.



 "It is our hope students and parents use these ranking as only one of many data
points to consider when researching colleges," said Post. &ldquo;Parents and
students should view rankings like these as just one of many tools when choosing
the right college. The best way to evaluate whether a college is the right fit
is by visiting campus, learning more about the academic and student life
options, and meeting the community."



 Mount St. Mary's University is also nationally ranked as one of the top
Catholic colleges in the nation in the latest edition of The Newman Guide to
Choosing a Catholic College. It is among 28 recommended institutions including
22 four-year colleges and universities in the United States, four institutions
providing English-language instruction in other countries (Canada, Italy and
Australia) and two online programs. The Mount has been listed in every edition
of the Guide since its first release in 2007.



 Mount St. Mary's University is the nation's second-oldest Catholic university
-- with 16 Division I athletic teams, an award-winning student life program and
more than 40 majors and minors to choose from.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday

MSMU Ranks in Top 25 in the Region: U.S. News and World Report Best Colleges

LENGTH: 398  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Frederick: Mount St. Mary's University issued the following news release:



  For the 6th year in a row, Mount St. Mary's University is ranked among the
North region's top 25 top colleges and universities by U.S. News & World Report.
MSMU placed 22nd among 130 institutions in the region and second among
Maryland's eight other public and private regional universities.





 &ldquo;We are honored to be recognized by U.S. News & World Report as one of
the nation's best colleges,&rdquo; said Michael Post, MSMU's vice president for
enrollment management. &ldquo;Rankings like these are the direct result of a
tremendous amount of hard work and dedication from the Mount community, and our
unrelenting commitment to providing the very best academic experience.&rdquo;



 The U.S. News rankings focus on academic excellence, with schools ranked based
on 16 measures of academic quality. The rankings emphasize outcomes, with
graduation and retention rates carrying the most weight in the methodology at 30
percent. MSMU placed second in alumni giving with 22 percent annual
participation.



 "It is our hope students and parents use these ranking as only one of many data
points to consider when researching colleges," said Post. &ldquo;Parents and
students should view rankings like these as just one of many tools when choosing
the right college. The best way to evaluate whether a college is the right fit
is by visiting campus, learning more about the academic and student life
options, and meeting the community."



 Mount St. Mary's University is also nationally ranked as one of the top
Catholic colleges in the nation in the latest edition of The Newman Guide to
Choosing a Catholic College. It is among 28 recommended institutions including
22 four-year colleges and universities in the United States, four institutions
providing English-language instruction in other countries (Canada, Italy and
Australia) and two online programs. The Mount has been listed in every edition
of the Guide since its first release in 2007.



 Mount St. Mary's University is the nation's second-oldest Catholic university
-- with 16 Division I athletic teams, an award-winning student life program and
more than 40 majors and minors to choose from.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 3, 2015 Saturday

MSMU Ranks in Top 25 in the Region: U.S. News and World Report Best Colleges

LENGTH: 390 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Frederick: Mount St. Mary's University issued the following news release:



  For the 6th year in a row, Mount St. Mary's University is ranked among the
North region's top 25 top colleges and universities by U.S. News & World Report.
MSMU placed 22nd among 130 institutions in the region and second among
Maryland's eight other public and private regional universities.





 &ldquo;We are honored to be recognized by U.S. News & World Report as one of
the nation's best colleges,&rdquo; said Michael Post, MSMU's vice president for
enrollment management. &ldquo;Rankings like these are the direct result of a
tremendous amount of hard work and dedication from the Mount community, and our
unrelenting commitment to providing the very best academic experience.&rdquo;



 The U.S. News rankings focus on academic excellence, with schools ranked based
on 16 measures of academic quality. The rankings emphasize outcomes, with
graduation and retention rates carrying the most weight in the methodology at 30
percent. MSMU placed second in alumni giving with 22 percent annual
participation.



 "It is our hope students and parents use these ranking as only one of many data
points to consider when researching colleges," said Post. &ldquo;Parents and
students should view rankings like these as just one of many tools when choosing
the right college. The best way to evaluate whether a college is the right fit
is by visiting campus, learning more about the academic and student life
options, and meeting the community."



 Mount St. Mary's University is also nationally ranked as one of the top
Catholic colleges in the nation in the latest edition of The Newman Guide to
Choosing a Catholic College. It is among 28 recommended institutions including
22 four-year colleges and universities in the United States, four institutions
providing English-language instruction in other countries (Canada, Italy and
Australia) and two online programs. The Mount has been listed in every edition
of the Guide since its first release in 2007.



 Mount St. Mary's University is the nation's second-oldest Catholic university
-- with 16 Division I athletic teams, an award-winning student life program and
more than 40 majors and minors to choose from.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 BusinessWorld

                           January 27, 2011 Thursday

THE VIEW FROM TAFT;
Choosing a B-school

BYLINE: Brian C. Gozun

SECTION: Pg. S1/4

LENGTH: 699 words


It's that time of the year again when high school seniors find out if they have
passed the entrance exams of their schools of choice. Before the advent of the
Internet, graduating high school students had to painstakingly wait for the
postman to deliver that envelope with a school insignia on it. Nowadays,
students just have to log on to a university's Web site to check if they have
made it to their (or their parents') dream school.

Filipinos are quite young - neither adults nor children - when they finish high
school, so entering a university can be quite daunting for them. University
professors are known to treat their students as adults and to remind them that
they are no longer in high school. Also, applications for college entrance exams
start as early as the summer before entering fourth year. This makes choosing a
school or even a course even more difficult for a young adult. I would thus like
to share how you can help your child or a teenager you know choose a good
business school.

The most popular courses that students take in university are business-related:
accountancy, business administration, marketing management, legal management,
and financial management. Some students choose a business course because they
are prodded by their parents or because they know someone who has taken or is
taking the course. Others choose it because they do not know what the other
courses in the application forms are. Students find it easy to choose business
schools because many universities and colleges offer business courses, which
require limited resources. Compare the cost of opening an engineering
department, with all its laboratories, with the cost of opening a college of
business, which needs only classrooms and at most a computer laboratory!

One of the most important factors in choosing a professional course, such as
accounting, is the passing rate in government licensure examinations. Some
schools are known to produce a topnotcher or two every now and then but have
dismal overall passing ratios. Better is a school whose passing percentage over
the years is consistently high; this means that necessary skills and learning
are provided not just to a few but to a bigger spectrum of students. The best,
of course, is a school that both enjoys a high percentage of passers and
produces topnotchers consistently.

School facilities, location, and tuition are also important, but even more so is
the employability of the school's graduates. Top business schools produce
graduates who receive job offers months before graduation. Practicum programs
give employers the chance to spot the best and brightest way ahead of their
competitors. Top graduates of these business schools are offered management
trainee positions that can be jump-off points to more challenging and fulfilling
career paths. On the other hand, some business schools have a reputation for
producing entrepreneurs who have made it big even at a young age. This can be a
good come-on for budding entrepreneurs.

In a world of change, one does not want to get stuck in a course that is not the
right fit. A student must look at schools that offer flexibility and innovation.
Innovative and flexible curricula must expose a student not only to the tools
and tricks of the trade but also to what is happening in the outside world. Such
exposure can be done through immersion programs, interdisciplinary courses, and
integrative learning experiences.

Readers of this column who have taken an undergraduate or master's degree in
business know that choosing a business school entails a great deal of time,
effort, energy, and enthusiasm. If you have children or know of teenagers
wanting to earn a business degree, take time to share this article and expose
them to what a business degree can offer.

Brian Gozun, Ph.D. is dean of the College of Business of De La Salle University.
He took a business degree in college thinking he would become an investment
banker but ended up in the wonderful world of academe. He can be reached at
brian.gozun@dlsu.edu.ph

The views expressed above are the author's and do not necessarily reflect the
official position of De La Salle University, its faculty, and its
administrators.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2011 BusinessWorld Publishing Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 BusinessWorld

                           January 27, 2011 Thursday

THE VIEW FROM TAFT;
Choosing a B-school

BYLINE: Brian C. Gozun

SECTION: Pg. S1/4

LENGTH: 699 words


It's that time of the year again when high school seniors find out if they have
passed the entrance exams of their schools of choice. Before the advent of the
Internet, graduating high school students had to painstakingly wait for the
postman to deliver that envelope with a school insignia on it. Nowadays,
students just have to log on to a university's Web site to check if they have
made it to their (or their parents') dream school.

Filipinos are quite young - neither adults nor children - when they finish high
school, so entering a university can be quite daunting for them. University
professors are known to treat their students as adults and to remind them that
they are no longer in high school. Also, applications for college entrance exams
start as early as the summer before entering fourth year. This makes choosing a
school or even a course even more difficult for a young adult. I would thus like
to share how you can help your child or a teenager you know choose a good
business school.

The most popular courses that students take in university are business-related:
accountancy, business administration, marketing management, legal management,
and financial management. Some students choose a business course because they
are prodded by their parents or because they know someone who has taken or is
taking the course. Others choose it because they do not know what the other
courses in the application forms are. Students find it easy to choose business
schools because many universities and colleges offer business courses, which
require limited resources. Compare the cost of opening an engineering
department, with all its laboratories, with the cost of opening a college of
business, which needs only classrooms and at most a computer laboratory!

One of the most important factors in choosing a professional course, such as
accounting, is the passing rate in government licensure examinations. Some
schools are known to produce a topnotcher or two every now and then but have
dismal overall passing ratios. Better is a school whose passing percentage over
the years is consistently high; this means that necessary skills and learning
are provided not just to a few but to a bigger spectrum of students. The best,
of course, is a school that both enjoys a high percentage of passers and
produces topnotchers consistently.

School facilities, location, and tuition are also important, but even more so is
the employability of the school's graduates. Top business schools produce
graduates who receive job offers months before graduation. Practicum programs
give employers the chance to spot the best and brightest way ahead of their
competitors. Top graduates of these business schools are offered management
trainee positions that can be jump-off points to more challenging and fulfilling
career paths. On the other hand, some business schools have a reputation for
producing entrepreneurs who have made it big even at a young age. This can be a
good come-on for budding entrepreneurs.

In a world of change, one does not want to get stuck in a course that is not the
right fit. A student must look at schools that offer flexibility and innovation.
Innovative and flexible curricula must expose a student not only to the tools
and tricks of the trade but also to what is happening in the outside world. Such
exposure can be done through immersion programs, interdisciplinary courses, and
integrative learning experiences.

Readers of this column who have taken an undergraduate or master's degree in
business know that choosing a business school entails a great deal of time,
effort, energy, and enthusiasm. If you have children or know of teenagers
wanting to earn a business degree, take time to share this article and expose
them to what a business degree can offer.

Brian Gozun, Ph.D. is dean of the College of Business of De La Salle University.
He took a business degree in college thinking he would become an investment
banker but ended up in the wonderful world of academe. He can be reached at
brian.gozun@dlsu.edu.ph

The views expressed above are the author's and do not necessarily reflect the
official position of De La Salle University, its faculty, and its
administrators.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2011 BusinessWorld Publishing Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            January 12, 2015 Monday

Giambra should heed judge's decision and give up opposition to ECC North project

LENGTH: 420  words


A judge's ruling dismissing a challenge to construction of a new building on the
North Campus of Erie Community College should put an end to those unnecessary
roadblocks.


Former County Executive Joel A. Giambra, ECC student Wil Turner and Buffalo
Common Council Member Joseph Golombek Jr. of the North District sued the county
and college. They wanted to stop planning for a $30 million science, technology,
engineering and math building at ECC North in Amherst. Their lawsuit demanded a
full examination of the project's potential environmental impacts, but their
real goal was to prevent construction of the building in Amherst.
State Supreme Court Justice Deborah A. Chimes ruled that the three plaintiffs
did not have legal standing to mount a court challenge. That should be the final
word. Somehow, we doubt that will be the case.
Giambra has long argued that ECC's resources and any expansion should be
centered on the downtown campus. Doing anything else, he told The News, would be
a huge mistake and constitute sprawl.
Giambra & Co. are wrong. The North Campus needs this building, and so does the
county.
Students living in or near Amherst are choosing instead to attend Niagara County
Community College in Sanborn, which has new facilities and, even more attractive
to those who want the full college "experience," a dormitory built in 2008.
Other Erie County students are choosing to attend Genesee Community College.
Those decisions are costing local municipalities millions of dollars in
chargeback fees counties pay when their residents attend a community college
outside their home county. Since 2002, the county has paid $46 million in
chargebacks.
The former county executive sparked a lively discussion around whether ECC needs
three campuses. While it may not be the most efficient system, there seems to be
little sentiment for change. In a competitive educational market, ECC offers
students options.
Giambra has raised other objections that should be explored. He questions ECC's
financial viability, something the state comptroller or State University should
look into. And he says city residents will have difficulty reaching the North
Campus using the limited public transportation available. That is an issue for
ECC to consider.
Giambra has pledged to continue the fight with further appeals. He should let it
go, saving his time and ECC's money. The judge's ruling should be the final
verdict.
It's time to start the ball rolling on improving ECC's North Campus. 2014 Legal
Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2015 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 9, 1985, Sunday, Final Edition

The Best of the Brightest

BYLINE: By Edwin M. Yoder Jr.; Edwin M. Yoder Jr., a syndicated columnist for
The Washington Post Writers Group, has for a number of years served on state and
regional selection committees for the Rhodes Scholarship.

SECTION: Book World; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 945 words


CHOOSING ELITES. By Robert Klitgaard. Basic Books. 267 pp., $19.95.

THIS BOOK is in significant ways an instructive primer in the hopes and
disappointments of "public policy science," of which Robert Klitgaard is a
professor at Harvard.

Typically, studies in this fledgling discipline promise that "policy choices"
may somehow be so sterilized and systematized, indeed scientized, as to cleanse
them of all taint of ethical or social predisposition. But in this respect and
others, public policy studies frequently promise far more than they can deliver.
And Choosing Elites is an example of that.

The book is a study, an able and candid one, of the way in which "elite"
educational institutions -- that is, highly selective ones -- go about choosing
and admitting their students. The admissions dilemma at such institutions is
what is called, in the jargon of statistics, "selection at the right tail" --
selection from among a superabundance of candidates whose formal qualifications
put them as a group way out at the extreme right end ("tail") of the bell-shaped
curve showing the standard distribution of scholastic abilities.

Qualifications in such a pool of applicants are often so closely matched, or so
much a matter of apples versus oranges, that it becomes a tricky task to say why
one should be chosen, another rejected. Klitgaard draws heavily on the
accumulated admissions experience of the various branches of Harvard. But
despite (or perhaps because of) all the handwringing over selectivity, there is
a wild variation from, say, law school to medical school to undergraduate
college in the degree to which university subdivisions can articulate exactly
what they seek in students, or what they do systematically to find it.

The firm conclusios reached in Choosing Elites are so few, or tentative, or
unsurprising, as to tempt a good public policy scientist to throw up his hands
and turn in his card.

There are indeed reliable techniques, mostly old and familiar, for predicting
strictly academic achievement -- test scores and previous academic performance.
Otherwise, it is difficult, nay impossible, to predict with accuracy the
intangible social benefit ("social value added," to use Klitgaard's term) of any
given attempt at social engineering in admissions policies. There is abundant
evidence that diluting your meritocracy of "wonks" with good musicians, good
mixers, youth of precocious social conscience, et al., tends to prevent boring
and listless student bodies. But variety usually prevents dullness, whatever the
setting. Nothing startling there.

The most interesting, but also the gloomiest, subject Kliting Among Groups," a
delicate term for affirmative action admissions. It is, of course, an ethical
and political minefield. Blacks, and to some degree Hispanics, perform far less
well as groups on the usual standard cognitive tests, such as the SAT. Yet
despite the clamor of recent years to the effect that standardized tests are
"culturally biased," and hence put underprivileged minorities at a disadvantage,
all the information Klitgaard has amassed tends to show that test scores
"overpredict" the future academic performance of blacks, and substantially so.

It is a gloomy but inescapable inference from this that to gauge probable black
performance in an "elite" college or university, an admissions office should in
the typical case adjust SAT scores downward. No one quite knows what the
implications of this are, but it is one of the many problems of selectivity
which Klitgaard candidly admits -- candor on a subject so often suffused with
intellectual sham and hypocrisy being a refreshing strength of this book. Most
selective institutions are already practicing affirmative action, substantially
relaxing their standards to recruit black and other minorities. But guarding its
beneficiaries against discouragement continues to be a problem.

THE BASICALLY modest and skeptical findings of Choosing Elites suggest that in
this, as in so many other fields, we are still trying to reinvent wheels which
were discarded amid the turbulence of the '60s and early '70s. In that time of
angst and self-consciousness over social privilege, some good and useful
programs and principles were thrown out with the bad. Admissions offices at
"elite" colleges and universities seem, even now, to be spending a great deal of
time searching for magical formulas for recruiting the left-out and left-behind
and assuring their success -- a laudable goal, to be sure, but one that has yet
to foster any reliable body of predictive techniques.

The only consistently reliable "predictor" of academic success that admissions
officers have to work with (apart from prior performance) is -- surprise! --
measurable cognitive ability, which is to say scholastic ability.

As Klitgaard is at pains to say, this is no excuse for abandoning the search for
ways to make college selections (within sane limits) more democratic, more
inclusive of human, ethnic and regional variety, and socially productive in the
long run. Unfortunately, the central message of Choosing Elites is that we still
know almost nothing about how to reach goals that are extraneous to the process
of learning itself. Schools being schools, if you want to predict who will do
well keep your eye on brainpower and intellectual self-discipline. Beyond that,
the effort to find "scientific" predictors of social benefit seems to have been
largely in vain. The mountain has labored mightily -- its wheezings and heavings
are heavily documented in Klitgaard's footnotes and appendices. But the most it
can show, so far anyway, is a pitifully underweight mouse.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart, Distribution of SAT verbal plus math scores among college-bound
seniors and freshmen of a highly selective college.

                       Copyright 1985 The Washington Post

                              218 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Waterloo Region Record

                             April 3, 2014 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Cut back automatic tests, doctors urged

BYLINE: Theresa Boyle, News services

SECTION: ARTS; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 367 words


No more automatic annual blood tests; no more automatic imaging for lower-back
pain; and no more pap tests for women under 21 and over 69.

Canadian doctors are being asked to cut back on these and 37 other tests,
procedures and treatments as part of a national campaign aimed at rooting out
unnecessary interventions.

The Choosing Wisely Canada campaign kicked off in Ottawa on Wednesday morning
with the release of lists from nine national medical organization and specialty
groups of interventions that doctors and their patients are being urged to think
twice about at www.choosingwiselycanada.org.

Unnecessary imaging could needlessly expose patients to radiation. Unnecessary
procedures could lead to further interventions that can be invasive and possible
cause patient's side effects. As well, these tests and procedures take time and
drain resources.

The campaign is aimed at starting a dialogue between doctors and their patients
and ultimately changing the "more is always better" culture.

"It's time for physicians and patients to have some frank and healthy
conversations about the overuse of tests, treatments and procedures," said Dr.
Wendy Levinson, founder of Choosing Wisely Canada and chair of the department of
medicine at the University of Toronto.

The College of Family Physicians of Canada offered up a list of five unnecessary
interventions that includes annual automatic blood tests. The advice is not to
do routine blood tests in asymptomatic patients.

"This practice is more likely to produce false positive results that may lead to
additional unnecessary testing," reasons the college.

It also advises against X-rays, CT scans and MRIs for lower back pain unless red
flags are present, such as severe or neurological deficits.

Canada's Choosing Wisely campaign is modelled after an American one of the same
name.

"As in every field of medicine there are certain medial tests treatments and
procedures in specialty fields that physicians and patients should question,"
said Dr. Chris Simpson, president elect of the Canadian Medical Association,
which is a lead partner in the campaign.

View the complete lists at
www.choosingwiselycanada.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/EN-Collection.pdf.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Metroland Media Group Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Melton/Moorabool Leader (Australia)

                             March 15, 2011 Tuesday
                                 1 - EM Edition

My School rules But principals warn on test data

BYLINE: Education | Liam McAleer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 377  words


But principals warn on test data

PARENTS have been urged by Melton Shire school principals not to rely on My
School data when choosing a school for their child.

Leader added NAPLAN scores for reading, writing, spelling, grammar/punctuation
and numeracy and divided the result by five to find the shire's top-performing
schools.

Sydenham-Hillside Primary School topped the list with an average score of 518,
well above the state primary school average of 489.6. Other top-performing
primary schools included Taylors Hill (512.2), Exford (511.8) and Cana Catholic
Primary School, Hillside (508).

Gilson College in Delahey was the pick of the secondary schools scoring 600,
also well above the state average of 577.

Other highly rated secondary schools included Melton Christian College (591.4),
Catholic Regional College, Caroline Springs (590.8) and Mowbray College (584.8).

Sydenham-Hillside Primary School principal Glen McGarigle said the school was
``pleased with the results'' but warned parents to take other factors into
consideration when choosing a school.

``I tell parents that when they look at the My School website they have to
understand that the NAPLAN data is just one piece of the whole picture and there
is more to the schools that just the NAPLAN results,'' he said. ``We know
anecdotally that parents are using the My School website to locate schools that
they think offer good academic programs, but I would be advising that parents go
and actually look at the school and get the feel for the school and not solely
rely on the My School figures.

``When you walk into a school you know the feeling, you can see the work and
talk to the teachers.''

St Dominic's Primary School in Melton was the shire's lowest-scoring school,
with a score of 452.

Principal Brett Collison said the school offered its students an excellent
curriculum in a safe and happy learning environment.

``It's fair to say there is a great community spirit among the teachers,
students and parents,'' he said.

``My School 2.0 and the NAPLAN data, in particular, are just one part of the
equation and not the whole story.''

Education Minister Martin Dixon said the My School figures provided high quality
and nationally comparable data on the performance and progress of Australian
schools.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers

JOURNAL-CODE: MTV


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                              June 25, 2012 Monday

Many schools of thought when it comes to rankings;
Students have much to ponder when choosing their university as they learn their
A-level results this week

BYLINE: Linda Yeung

SECTION: NEWS; City Beat; Pg. 01

LENGTH: 555 words


In Hong Kong's brand-conscious society, university rankings attract much public
attention. After all, universities' ranking and reputation are key
considerations in many people's college selection criteria.

It is also common knowledge that there is a pecking order among the city's eight
publicly funded universities, with the top three research-intensive institutions
being the most sought after.

But making it into the top tier and staying there could be taking a toll on the
quality of education. Academics have long lamented the heavy pressure to produce
research work - a common factor in external recognition - which affects the
amount of time spent with students.

There is also the issue of subjectivity. Besides research, ranking polls tend to
look at factors such as faculty profiles, institutional reputation, alumni
salaries and so on, with each poll attaching different weightings to different
criteria.

But institutions' reputation sometimes "lags behind reality", says Professor
Philip Hanlon, provost of the University of Michigan, during a recent visit to
Hong Kong. His college is ranked 14th globally by the QS Intelligence Unit
survey.

For instance, some polls are discipline-oriented, having a strong focus on the
outcome of business education or science training. Choosing the right college
education therefore requires a clear understanding of the criteria and
weightings used.

What's more, universities strong in disciplines such as science and engineering
- as opposed to humanities and social sciences - are in a favourable position,
since those disciplines tend to be more active in research.

Ranking exercises can be confusing too. For example, the recent inaugural
exercises by QS and Times Higher Education on the world's top universities with
a history of 50 years or less present contrasting results.

The Chinese University led the QS poll of the top 50 such institutions, ahead of
the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology.

In the Times' poll of the top 100 such colleges, however, Chinese University
trailed behind HKUST, which came third after Switzerland's Ecole Polytechnique
Federale de Lausanne. A reason is that the inaugural QS poll simply filtered
institutions by age and their global rankings last year.

As with other personal choices, choosing a university requires an understanding
of one's likes and dislikes. Making decisions based on popular trends is a
mistake.

For instance, a major state college such as the University of Michigan may not
suit students with a strong need for guidance and nurturing, says Hanlon.

The University of Michigan, he says, is "entrepreneurial", offering many
activities and research opportunities for students with an exploratory bent. But
those who are more introverted may thrive at smaller colleges.

Certainly, being discerning helps as well. Strong state support undoubtedly
helped elevate Peking University's position in the QS Asian league table to
sixth from 13th last year, but one wonders about the degree of academic freedom
that staff and students enjoy, compared with foreign universities.

Hanlon agrees that curbs on academic freedom mean that high-quality work is more
likely in technical fields. These are considerations that will prove useful when
local students consider their options when they receive their A-level results
this week.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Colleges' reputations sometimes lag behind reality, says Prof Phil
Hanlon

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                              June 25, 2012 Monday

Many schools of thought when it comes to rankings;
Students have much to ponder when choosing their university as they learn their
A-level results this week

BYLINE: Linda Yeung

SECTION: NEWS; City Beat; Pg. 01

LENGTH: 555 words


In Hong Kong's brand-conscious society, university rankings attract much public
attention. After all, universities' ranking and reputation are key
considerations in many people's college selection criteria.

It is also common knowledge that there is a pecking order among the city's eight
publicly funded universities, with the top three research-intensive institutions
being the most sought after.

But making it into the top tier and staying there could be taking a toll on the
quality of education. Academics have long lamented the heavy pressure to produce
research work - a common factor in external recognition - which affects the
amount of time spent with students.

There is also the issue of subjectivity. Besides research, ranking polls tend to
look at factors such as faculty profiles, institutional reputation, alumni
salaries and so on, with each poll attaching different weightings to different
criteria.

But institutions' reputation sometimes "lags behind reality", says Professor
Philip Hanlon, provost of the University of Michigan, during a recent visit to
Hong Kong. His college is ranked 14th globally by the QS Intelligence Unit
survey.

For instance, some polls are discipline-oriented, having a strong focus on the
outcome of business education or science training. Choosing the right college
education therefore requires a clear understanding of the criteria and
weightings used.

What's more, universities strong in disciplines such as science and engineering
- as opposed to humanities and social sciences - are in a favourable position,
since those disciplines tend to be more active in research.

Ranking exercises can be confusing too. For example, the recent inaugural
exercises by QS and Times Higher Education on the world's top universities with
a history of 50 years or less present contrasting results.

The Chinese University led the QS poll of the top 50 such institutions, ahead of
the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology.

In the Times' poll of the top 100 such colleges, however, Chinese University
trailed behind HKUST, which came third after Switzerland's Ecole Polytechnique
Federale de Lausanne. A reason is that the inaugural QS poll simply filtered
institutions by age and their global rankings last year.

As with other personal choices, choosing a university requires an understanding
of one's likes and dislikes. Making decisions based on popular trends is a
mistake.

For instance, a major state college such as the University of Michigan may not
suit students with a strong need for guidance and nurturing, says Hanlon.

The University of Michigan, he says, is "entrepreneurial", offering many
activities and research opportunities for students with an exploratory bent. But
those who are more introverted may thrive at smaller colleges.

Certainly, being discerning helps as well. Strong state support undoubtedly
helped elevate Peking University's position in the QS Asian league table to
sixth from 13th last year, but one wonders about the degree of academic freedom
that staff and students enjoy, compared with foreign universities.

Hanlon agrees that curbs on academic freedom mean that high-quality work is more
likely in technical fields. These are considerations that will prove useful when
local students consider their options when they receive their A-level results
this week.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Colleges' reputations sometimes lag behind reality, says Prof Phil
Hanlon

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              July 15, 2011 Friday

Self-financing engineering colleges surrender more seats to govt

BYLINE: M Ramya

SECTION: CHENNAI

LENGTH: 413 words


CHENNAI: Just a few days into the single window counselling for engineering
admissions in the state, self-financing colleges have started surrendering more
seats than required to the government, fearing that the seats will go vacant. By
the fifth day of the counselling session, almost 10,000 management seats had
been surrendered to Anna University.

Self-financing colleges are required to surrender 65% of their seats to the
government to be used for admission during counselling. Minority institution are
to give 50% of seats while Anna University and other government-aided colleges
make all their seats available.

"More colleges are surrendering their management seats now. Eight thousand seats
were surrendered on the first day of the counselling session. We expect more
seats to be added to the government quota," said Tamil Nadu Engineering
Admissions secretary V Rhymend Uthariaraj.

The number of management seats in self-financing colleges has now gone down to
50,015 from 60,000 at the start of the session.

Academics and experts following the trend said colleges may be giving up their
seats on finding that some top rankers were choosing medicine over engineering,
or because they were choosing the more popular colleges. Usually, it is the new
colleges that surrender seats to the government quota, fearing that the seats
will go vacant.

According to AICTE norms, engineering colleges are required to have facilities
and faculty according to the intake capacity and not according to the actual
capacity. This means that if the number of students joining the department is
lesser than the capacity, the resources are wasted.

"Those who wanted to join through the management quota have already done so
provincially. Many lower level colleges have not been able to fill up their
seats. The number of seats being surrendered will definitely go up. New colleges
coming up now are likely to give their seats, and other colleges will surrender
seats in least preferred courses like civil engineering and biotechnology," said
educational consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi.

He said that based on last year's experience, first-generation learners are also
likely to try their luck at the counselling session because they stand to get a
discount of Rs 20,000 fee waiver.

Academics see no change in the last few years' trend of seats going vacant. In
2009, 31,210 seats went vacant, while colleges were unable to find occupants for
51,000 seats in 2010.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The West Australian (Perth)

                           November 25, 2006 Saturday
                                     METRO

TER change hits numbers for geography

BYLINE: BETHANY HIATT

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 76

LENGTH: 362  words


The number of high school students studying geography next year will plunge by
more than a third, new data shows.

A poll of State and private schools by the Geography Association of WA confirms
fears raised earlier this year that Year 10 students were abandoning geography
and other humanities subjects in favour of new OBE courses such as physical
education and media studies when choosing subjects for Year 11.

The survey of about 30 schools last week showed the number of students choosing
geography at those schools has plummeted 37 per cent - from 1082 students this
year to 684 in 2007.

Students choosing history fell 18 per cent and economics slumped 19 per cent.
However, the number of students choosing political and legal studies rose
marginally.

Applecross Senior High School will have no geography classes next year, down
from 46 students this year. Aranmore Catholic College has dropped from 25
students to none.

Educators believe the drop-off in humanities is due to Curriculum Council
changes which increase the number of subjects that count towards university
entrance and scrap a requirement that scores in at least one humanities subject
must be included in university entrance calculations. Under the new system,
results from the best four subjects will be used to calculate tertiary entrance
scores.

GAWA president Mike Fazio said the humanities had to be part of a balanced
curriculum. Members would meet early next year to discuss strategies to resolve
the crisis.

"If the humanities are going to be quietly shelved, I think there will be some
grave consequences," he said.

Fewer students would develop skills in interpreting and analysing data. If the
trend continued, specialist geography teachers would have to take more lower
school classes or teach outside their area of expertise.

University of WA geography lecturer Karl-Heinz Wyrwoll said it was regrettable
that fewer students were studying geography at a time when it was essential to
have a global understanding.

"Geography is such an employable subject now, we really have no problem placing
our students at the end of our courses," he said. "But in WA, unfortunately, it
seems to be dying in schools."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 West Australian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 therecord.com

                             April 3, 2014 Thursday

Campaign reveals lists of procedures, treatments doctors should avoid

SECTION: LIVING

LENGTH: 367 words


No more automatic annual blood tests; no more automatic imaging for lower-back
pain; and no more pap tests for women under 21 and over 69.

Canadian doctors are being asked to cut back on these and 37 other tests,
procedures and treatments as part of a national campaign aimed at rooting out
unnecessary interventions.

The Choosing Wisely Canada campaign kicked off in Ottawa on Wednesday morning
with the release of lists from nine national medical organization and specialty
groups of interventions that doctors and their patients are being urged to think
twice about at www.choosingwiselycanada.org.

Unnecessary imaging could needlessly expose patients to radiation. Unnecessary
procedures could lead to further interventions that can be invasive and possible
cause patient's side effects. As well, these tests and procedures take time and
drain resources.

The campaign is aimed at starting a dialogue between doctors and their patients
and ultimately changing the "more is always better" culture.

"It's time for physicians and patients to have some frank and healthy
conversations about the overuse of tests, treatments and procedures," said Dr.
Wendy Levinson, founder of Choosing Wisely Canada and chair of the department of
medicine at the University of Toronto.

The College of Family Physicians of Canada offered up a list of five unnecessary
interventions that includes annual automatic blood tests. The advice is not to
do routine blood tests in asymptomatic patients.

"This practice is more likely to produce false positive results that may lead to
additional unnecessary testing," reasons the college.

It also advises against X-rays, CT scans and MRIs for lower back pain unless red
flags are present, for example severe or neurological deficits.

Canada's Choosing Wisely campaign is modelled after an American one of the same
name.

"As in every field of medicine there are certain medial tests treatments and
procedures in specialty fields that physicians and patients should question,"
said Dr. Chris Simpson, president elect of the Canadian Medical Association,
which is a lead partner in the campaign.

View the complete lists at
www.choosingwiselycanada.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/EN-Collection.pdf

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Metroland Media Group Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Eastern Daily Press

                           September 19, 2011 Monday

More money for student transport - but worries remain

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 471 words


A decision by Norfolk county council to increase its transport subsidy for
students aged 16-19 has been welcomed but there are fears other proposed
cost-cutting measures will reduce youngsters' choice of where to study.



The authority was looking at slashing its budget for bus travel for sixth form
and college pupils by £1m as part of its wider programme of cuts.

It would have meant students and their parents faced an increase in the
contributions they were expected to make of about £140 from September next year
in order to save the council £400,000.

But cabinet members have agreed to reduce the extra burden on families by
increasing its planned subsidy for the future by £200,000 - meaning pupils
instead face an extra £70 contribution.

Alison Thomas, the council's member for children's services, said the authority
did not want to discourage young people from continuing their studies and hoped
this move would help.

The announcement has been widely welcomed by councillors and school leaders.

David Lawrence, from Easton College, said: "Finding a solution to enable
students living in rural  areas of Norfolk to access further education is both a
critical but  also very challenging issue, particularly in such difficult
economic times.

"I must pay tribute to the  County Council in terms of their commitment to this
issue and for  the very significant efforts that  are being made to deliver a
workable solution."

But at a meeting of the children's services overview and scrutiny panel on
Thursday, concerns were expressed about some of the other cost-cutting measures.


Among the package of proposals is a plan to introduce "core routes" which
students would have to take to qualify for the subsidy.

It aims to cut out what officers  call "an unreasonable exercise of choice"
which currently sees some students travelling to colleges and sixth form centres
further away  from their homes when closer sites offering the same courses are
available.

Councillors and education leaders questioned what was considered "unreasonable"
when it came to choosing where to study.

Lib Dem councillor Mervyn Scutter said the courses on offer was not the only
consideration for pupils choosing colleges and sixth  forms.

"It's also about the environment they study in," he said.

"They are not choosing to travel 40 miles because they like to spend all that
time on a bus."

Laurie Poulson, principal of East Norfolk Sixth Form College, in Gorleston, said
the introduction of core routes would mean pupils who relied on the transport
subsidy would have less choice than those who did not.

Other plans for post-16 transport savings include transferring some of the
responsibility for supporting families on low incomes to schools and colleges
and encouraging more independent travel for young people with learning
difficulties and disabilities.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EDP


                    Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                         January 10, 1995, CITY EDITION

Take time to make up your mind
For many students, choosing a third-level course - indeed, choosing up to 20 on
the CAO/CAS form - is the first step in choosing a career and could have a
profound effect on the rest of their lives. Practical advice from guidance
counsellors on how to approach this daunting decision

BYLINE: By ANNE BYRNE

SECTION: EDUCATION & LIVING; Pg. Supplement Page 7

LENGTH: 985 words


CHOOSING a future career is a tall task, and it's not surprising that many
students are still hesitating as they clutch their CAO/CAS forms in one hand and
their pen in another.

Bridget Lyons, guidance counsellor at Loreto College, Letterkenny, Co Donegal,
says that there are three main reasons why students have not yet made decisions.
The first may be that students have not decided whether to apply to the CAO/CAS
at all; then there are the people who have made that decision but not followed
it up with any research or preparation and the third group comprises students
who are thinking of too many options.

Many students decide against applying due to a lack of confidence - they feel
that they won't get the results to justify an application. To such students the
advice she gives is: there is plenty of time before the exams. Don't give up
instead, set goals and work towards them.

Once a student has decided he or she would like to apply for a third-level
course, the next question is: which course? To help students make up their
minds, Lyons suggests that they adopt the CAO/CAS handbook as bedtime reading.
"Just reading through it, they may get some ideas.

"The next step is to take pen and paper and write down a list of colleges and
courses that they are interested in. Check each prospectus and find out what the
course is really about. Obviously, students should also check the subject
requirements. At that stage they probably will be able to shortlist," she
explains.

Talk it over with somebody, Lyons says, put something on paper and go back and
talk it over again.

Robert Lennon, guidance counsellor in Colaiste Choilm, Tullamore, Co Offaiy,
says that it's relatively easy to get information on courses - the difficult
part is to know yourself and know which course will really suit you.

Lennon advises students to imagine that they have just been offered a course.
"It's amazing what this elicits at times. You might say to a student: 'You have
just been offered a place in science in UCD, what particular subjects would you
pick in first year?' Many have absolutely no idea." Students must consider each
choice as a potential offer, Lennon says.

"The whole idea of taking time to reflect calmly is very important. It is not
something we are used to doing," Lennon adds. He suggests that students remember
the change-of-mind facility they should not simply heave a huge sigh of relief
at being in the system and then forget all about it.

He also advises students to think about the college and its location as well as
the course. "It is a huge move from second to third level and there is a big
fallout in first year in college.  Sometimes, being away from home with problems
of loneliness and financial worries can contribute to this decision. Equally,
getting a bus or train every morning and travelling long distances can be very
tiring.

Father John Dunne, president of the Institute of Guidance Counsellors, cautions
against waiting for a bright light to go on or a fire to kindle in your belly
choosing a course may come down to a cold decision, a weighing of pros and cons.

"There is enough time left to consider this but that time must be quality time,"
Dunne says. "Making the right CAO decision is as important as studying English
or maths from now until the first of February. Don't just put it off until the
weekend or leave it to a spare moment. That is avoiding the issue," he says.

If all comes to all, students do not need to choose any courses but can send the
form in with "pending" written across both lists.  However he cautions that this
may be a little risky. (Applications for restricted courses most be made on or
before the February 1st deadline.)

FATHER DUNNE is particularly concerned about pupils in schools without guidance
counsellors. A school must have 350 pupils to be entitled to half a guidance
counsellor and over 500 pupils to be entitled to the services of a full-time
guidance counsellor.

"It is particularly at times like this that the inequality of provision in our
schools becomes clear all pupils in second level deserve the services of a
qualified guidance counsellor. There can be great stress from home and within
the students themselves, they need somebody who is available and knowlegable,"
he says.

Like Bridget Lyons, Dunne is convinced of the power of writing things down. He
suggests that students who have a number of choices but can't decide should put
them all down on paper. Divide the page in half and put the reasons why that is
a good choice on one side and the reasons against on the other. Put it away in a
drawer for a few days, take it out and add to it, then put it away again and let
it cook.

At this stage, a student might begin to sort out the main reasons for and
against, but no decision has yet been made, he points out.  Later, one page can
be weighed against another. "It's a gimmick but it can stop that mad racing in
the brain. It can also help to counter queries from relatives with a cool 'I'm
working on it' rather than the 'I'm in a tizzy' approach," he says.

Ann Geoghegan, guidance counsellor at Blakestown Community School in Dublin,
says that if students feel that they are interested in a particular area, they
should look at all the courses in that field - certificates and diplomas as well
as degrees.

She is concerned that certain students put down "socially acceptable" choices
such as doctor, lawyer and accountant as their first preferences. "Do not be put
under pressure by misconceptions about certain professions. Do some research on
job prospects and working environment," she says.

At the end of the day, says Bridget Lyons, collect all the advice.  Write it
down. Look at it and any other information available. Then sit down and make
your choice while remembering that it is you, the student, who must live with
that decision.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 1995 The Irish Times

                              227 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Australian (Australia)

                           October 10, 2007 Wednesday
                           All-round Country Edition

More students sign up, putting magic million mark in sight

BYLINE: Milanda Rout

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 351  words


AUSTRALIAN students are doing their part to alleviate the skills shortage, with
increases in the number of enrolments for teaching, nursing and engineering
courses.

More than 42,949 people started a health course in 2006, up 11.4 per cent on
last year, and a further 42,280 chose a teaching degree, a jump of 7.2per cent
on 2005.

Engineering and architecture courses were also popular among school-leavers but
the number of students choosing information technology continues to decline,
dropping by 13 per cent.

The latest Department of Education, Science and Training figures revealed
984,146 students were enrolled at Australian universities in 2006, up 27,000
from 2005.

If the growth pattern continues, overall student numbers in 2007 will top one
million for the first time.

The number of domestic students increased by 15,600 to 733,352 while numbers of
international students choosing Australia rose by almost 5per cent to 250,794.

Students willing to pay full fees to get into their desired university course
increased by 14.6 per cent to 13,762. The rise follows a decline in the students
willing to pay cash for their degree in 2005.

Private colleges and TAFE institutions also recorded big rises, fuelled partly
by the increased demand for newly introduced associate degrees.

Religious colleges recorded big jumps in commencing students, with rises of 65.2
per cent at the Sydney College of Divinity, 163.6 per cent at Perth Bible
College and 304 per cent at the Australian Lutheran College.

Holmes College, a Victorian private English-language provider, increased its
students from 50 to 359, a jump of 618 per cent in just 12 months.

On the flip side, some universities recorded a decrease in commencing students,
with the University of Western Sydney dropping by 9.4 per cent and Central
Queensland University by 16.3 per cent.

Victoria University, Deakin University, Curtin University of Technology and
James Cook University also experienced a drop in applicants.

Federal Education Minister Julie Bishop said the continued increase in
enrolments showed the effectiveness of the Government's initiatives.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           November 13, 2014 Thursday

SECTION: SPECIAL REPORTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 673 words


How many subjects should I choose?  Your Leaving Cert results will be calculated
using the six subjects that you perform best in. For this reason, most schools
allow students to choose seven subjects.

Students taking more than one ordinary level paper, who wish to maximise their
Leaving Cert results by having six higher-level subjects, can avail of an option
to pick up an eighth subject outside of their school.

How do I choose the right subjects that suit me?  There are lots of things to
consider when choosing your subjects. Firstly, look at your Junior Cert results
and find the subjects that you were best at. Choosing subjects that you are good
at will benefit you in achieving the highest grade possible for it in the
Leaving Cert.

Next, consider the subjects that you enjoyed the most. Taking an interest in a
subject will greatly help to motivate you when it comes to studying and helps
the information to stick in your mind easily.

Finally, make sure to include any subjects you might need for third-level study
(either as a requirement for a course, or as a subject that will benefit your
studies for that course).

Are there any subjects that are easier than others?  This is a common
misconception. There is no such thing as an "easy honour". It depends entirely
on the student.

A student with strong mathematical ability will favour maths over French and
find it easier, but a student with a flair for languages will favour French over
maths and find French easier.

Many students read Leaving Cert results statistics and misunderstand their
relevance. Remember that a subject which appears to have a high percentage of As
every year is due to the high standards and capabilities of the students taking
that subject. There is no easy subject. Each subject requires time, dedication
and consistent attention for two years.

Leaving Cert subject choices FAQ

Are there any subjects that I have to choose? Unless you are exempt from any
subject, students must choose English, Irish and maths. Other than these, check
any subject requirements for your preferred courses. These are subjects that
must be completed to gain entry to particular courses. For example, pharmacy at
Trinity College Dublin (TCD) requires a minimum of a C3 in higher-level
chemistry.

To check if your preferred course has any requirements you must meet upon entry,
you can go to the college websites or use qualifax.ie.  Why do different
colleges have different requirements for the same course? The way the CAO system
is structured, you may have to opt for your preferred course at several
different colleges. This is the real problem with choosing subjects, because all
colleges have different minimum entry requirements, even for the same course.

For example, if you wish to study business, assuming all students take English:
TCD and University of Limerick require one language (Irish or a modern
language); National University of Ireland (NUI) colleges (University College
Dublin, University College Cork, NUI Galway and NUI Maynooth) require both Irish
and a modern language; Dublin City University and the institutes of technology
require neither Irish and nor a modern language. On top of this, each college
has different grade requirements in maths for their business course.

I would advise you to assume you may not get the points you need for your first
choice of college and make sure to meet the requirements for as many colleges as
possible.

If I don't know what I want to study at third level yet - what subjects should I
choose? If you are still unsure what you wish to study, take a good mixture of
subjects. A language and a science subject are important so that you don't limit
your options when it comes to your CAO. In order to maximise your Leaving Cert
points, you should then choose subjects you are interested in and will enjoy
studying.

Aptitude and interest tests are great for any student who is struggling to
choose a path that suits them. They are available online or ask your guidance
counsellor if any are offered at your school.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                           February 11, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

toptips haircare

BYLINE: Su Wright

SECTION: FEMAIL;FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 312 words


Choosing a career is probably one of the hardest decisions you will make as a
young adult and choosing hairdressing as a career may present you with some
opposition from careers advisers, parents and teachers, especially if you are
fairly academic. Hairdressing does tend to carry a lot of associated myths, such
as you do not get paid much and that you work long hours, neither of which are
totally accurate.

When you begin work as a trainee, you will be on a smaller wage, but as you
build your experience your wage will rise. What you earn after that, if you work
for a good company, will depend on how much money you make for the salon.

If you later choose to go self-employed, either renting a chair or freelance, or
even in your own salon, your earnings again will be down to how successful you
are as a stylist.

Choosing where to train is really important. If you have your basic grade C or
above in English and maths, you would be best suited to be work based or
employed by a salon and trained by them.

At Unique, all of our training is done in salon with the support of the
Francesco Group. This allows us to control the quality of the training and the
level of skills.

It also ensures the graduates we have at the end of the training programme are
of a really high standard.

Our ethos is to train our stylists to grow our businesses for the future.

The other route in, if you do not have these basic grades, is to approach a
college. Remember, colleges get paid for completed units of an NVQ, not for the
quality of the hairdressing they are producing.

My advice is study hard to get your basic grades and then try to get an
apprenticeship. You will probably have to work harder than your college
counterparts but the pay-off is you will have a better start in your career. We
are currently looking for apprentices to start in July. If you are interested,
call 01482 645499.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDM


                         Copyright 2014 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           February 16, 2013 Saturday

Hindu College students fight discriminatory ritual together

SECTION: DELHI

LENGTH: 306 words


NEW DELHI: Hindu College was abuzz early morning on Thursday. Students went to
and fro decorating a tree with steamers, heart-shaped balloons and water-filled
condoms. This is the 'Virgin Tree' at Hindu college, popularly known to be the
residence of 'Damdami Mai'. Every year college students choose one actress to
personify the goddess and worship her.

This time, however, they chose to not have just a goddess. After receiving
feedback that the ritual was discriminatory against women, the students this
time said they wanted to celebrate "togetherness".

"We were told last year that choosing an actress is discriminatory. So this time
we chose not to have one," said Shivam. However, later pictures of Jacqueline
Fernandez and John Abraham were placed to be worshipped.

Even before the ritual for the day started the students ran into some
resistance. A few girls from and outside the college expressed their disapproval
at condoms being hung from the tree.

Shweta Misra, second year zoology student, daringly stood amid a crowd of
students expressing her disapproval. "I am alright with the ritual but I have an
objection to the condoms hung on then tree. Why are we being so unabashed about
intercourse," she said.

Her disapproval met with a lot of boos by the crowd. Most of the students women
and men tried reasoning with her but Misra stood her ground for half an hour.
However, after some time students moved on to conducting the ritual.

Mr Fresher of the college Amarnath was carried to the tree by college students
on their shoulders. He was the priest who did the puja and distributed the
prasad. Afterthat the students chanted the Damdami Mai hymn called "Jay V Tree."

Every Valentine's Day the students of Hindu College personify the tree by
choosing one actress. Last year it was Sunny Leone.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           December 9, 2015 Wednesday

Goa food festival in Jan to reveal secrets of natural foods

BYLINE: Anuradha Mascarenhas

LENGTH: 486  words


Eating and choosing the right combination of food is important, says expert.

IT IS known that Omega 3 fatty acids is good for the heart. But the amazing
qualities of this nutrient are lost if natural foods that it is found in - like
coconut milk or flax seeds- are either boiled or roasted. Just how important
locally-made foods are or how best to cook and store them will be showcased at a
unique natural food festival organised by the National Institute of Naturopathy
(NIN). For the first time, 18 naturopathy colleges from across the country will
gather at Goa in January to give tips on how energy-efficient food can help in
bringing down the carbon footprint.

Pune-based NIN conducts its own food festival every year. However, what is
different this time is that students at nature cure colleges from across states
will come together for the first time and participate in the national natural
food festival, Dr Satya Lakshmi, Director of NIN told The Indian Express
(http://indianexpress.com/).

While different ethnic and traditional delicacies from various states will be
displayed at the national food fest, the meet, however, is more about how to
choose food which is nutritious, tasty, healthy and sustainable, says Dr Satya
Lakshmi.

According to naturopathy , food is medicine and nutrition is an important
subject at these colleges. Among some of the themes of the natural food festival
include how to cook food without losing its nutritional value, how to store and
preserve food, what are the good and bad combinations of food, when to eat and
what not to eat, among others.

The festival also aims at focusing on sustainable food cultivation and
practices, says Dr Satya Lakshmi. "Just one degree centigrade rise in
temperature can result in food shortage, heat stress, more vector-borne
diseases, depression and anxiety. It is important that our lifestyle in choosing
foods that are locally grown will address many of these environmental factors
and also social ones such as providing sustenance to the farmers and preventing
suicides. Eating and choosing the right food is important today," she stressed.

Pune likiely to gets its own naturopathy college

The NIN is an autonomous body under the Ministry of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga and
Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy). Located at the historical place
called Bapu Bhavan (named after Mahatma Gandhi who stayed here for 156 days), it
was also known as the nature cure clinic. Efforts have been consistently made to
get its own naturopathy college and set up a hospital at the 25 acres land on
the campus of the state-run Dr Bandorawala Leprosy hospital at Kondhwa. While
NIN has renovated its own OPD building at Bapu Bhavan, Dr Satya Lakshmi said
they were assured that funds have now been allocated for the naturopathy college
and hospital. "We will get the funds soon," she said, adding that it will be the
first such naturopathy college in Maharashtra.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times Higher Education Supplement

                                 July 11, 2013

Applied mythology

BYLINE: Edward Hicks

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 30 No. 2109

LENGTH: 352  words


Even as a mere master's student at St Anne's College, Oxford, I was astounded by
the antiquated and conflicting claims made by Anthony Rodriguez (Letters, 27
June).

First he refers to the "bizarre ordeal of choosing four colleges" when applying
to Oxbridge. Presumably Rodriguez is unaware that you now choose only one as an
undergraduate, a choice that makes no difference to your chances of getting in.
If he found choosing a college an ordeal, I shudder to think how he felt about
the rest of the application process.

He implies that leaving your application to the "pool" is also an ordeal, yet
random allocation (his alternative suggestion) would be exactly the same, except
that you wouldn't necessarily see the college or meet its tutors.

Rodriguez also dismisses the colleges' continuing academic role: presumably this
is why they maintain and expand their libraries year on year? He ignores the
fact that much teaching continues to take place in the colleges (with only
certain ones offering certain subjects).

Second, he appears unaware that the departmental academics he would have
interview candidates are the college tutors, and bizarrely thinks that such
interviews would not be the "much-feared grilling" undertaken by the tutors.
Does he think they would and should be less rigorous? Why would an interview in
a department be any less intimidating? And why does he believe that interviews
today do not focus on the rigours of Oxbridge degree programmes? Academic
matters are all they consider.

Third, he never explains why the college-based application process deters
state-school pupils from beyond the Home Counties: why is it harder for someone
from the North to grasp than the South? Has he any empirical evidence to back
this up?

Rodriguez peddles myths, myths reliant on ideas that were once true, or had a
kernel of truth, but have since been swept away as Oxbridge has reformed. His
letter does nothing to encourage the one thing that would do most to widen
access: encourage state-school pupils from disadvantaged backgrounds to apply in
the first place.

Edward Hicks, St Anne's College, Oxford.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 TSL Education Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                             May 16, 2013 Thursday

College with Gaelic at its heart

BYLINE: Andrew Youngson

SECTION: FEATURES; GENERAL; Others; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 151 words


Sabhal Mòr Ostaig UHI on the Isle of Skye is the only college of its kind in the
world offering further and higher education through the medium of Scottish
Gaelic.

Whether you wish to study on campus, at a distance or part-time, there are
courses available for complete beginners in the language to undergraduate and
post-graduate programmes.

Courses include five-day or weekend short courses which run over Easter and
Summer and range from Gaelic classes to traditional music, photography and
drama.

Not only will you have the opportunity to improve your confidence in the
language, you will also benefit from unique features on the courses which will
develop your practical and social skills.

In choosing to study with Sabhal Mòr Ostaig, you are choosing to come to a
Gaelic campus at the heart of the community where you will be immersed in Gaelic
and have the best possible chance to learn and use the language.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2013 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Scunthorpe Telegraph

                               November 22, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Why have numbers changed?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 229 words


SARAH Jayne Smith, 17, is a student at John Leggott College.

She said: "University is an expensive choice to consider, but I think in the
long run it will be worth it.

"You don't have to pay it all back at once and you are investing in your own
future.

"With people having to be in education until 18 now I don't think that
applications will change in the future."

Rob Waltham, cabinet member for people at North Lincolnshire Council, said: "I
think a lot of young people are choosing other education avenues besides
university. "People are choosing apprenticeships because there is an increase in
the number available locally. They are also choosing vocational routes and
studying closer to home because it is cheaper.

"Places like North Lindsey College are seeing more young people apply because
they have universityaccredited degrees at half the price.

"Price is always going to be a consideration, but more young people are starting
to look at a wider range of opportunities."

Nic Dakin, Labour MP for Scunthorpe, said: "It doesn't surprise me that
applications are down.

"It is a result of Conservative government policies which I voted and argued
against, which are acting as a disincentive to young people going on to higher
education.

"This ought to be a wake-up call to more positive action towards young people."

Andrew Percy, Brigg MP and a former teacher, refused to comment.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCU


                      Copyright 2012 Scunthorpe Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                            March 18, 2010 Thursday

Thousands missing out on university place urged to 'reappraise aspirations'

LENGTH: 332 words



HIGHLIGHT: THOUSANDS of  applicants  who face missing out in the scramble for
fewer university places should "reappraise their aspirations" says  the
country's admissions chief.


Mary Curnock Cook, the head of Ucas, has also advised young people to consider
going to university later in life amid  the funding cuts.

Applications to UK universities are  up by more than 100,000 this year despite
there being 6,000 fewer places, and there are fears that tens of thousands of
people will miss out despite having the required grades. Ms Curnock Cook said:
"I can't wave a magic wand and pretend that they are going to have to do
anything other than reappraise their aspirations.

"We have got a rise in the number of applicants. Clearly,  entrance becomes more
competitive."

She added that those who miss out  should be looking at other options, at
further education colleges, "and they really shouldn't be disappointed".

Meanwhile, it was also revealed yesterday that the number of Scots studying at
English universities has soared in  the past year,  sparking fears of an exodus
of young talent.

New figures show that the number of students choosing to travel south for a
degree rose  6.6 per cent in 2009 compared with the previous year, despite
Scottish students facing the extra expense of tuition fees and regular trips
home.

Labour education spokeswoman Claire Baker claimed the SNP government's spending
squeeze was making Scottish universities "less attractive" for young people when
deciding where they want to study.

The Scottish Government insisted, however, that the numbers of Scots choosing to
study in England was "miniscule" when compared with the large numbers who come
to Scotland  to study from England and abroad. Umbrella group Universities
Scotland also claimed that higher numbers of Scots going to study in England was
"no bad thing" and could be "good for Scotland".

The Scottish Government's  Students in Higher Education at Scottish Institutions
2008-9 figures showed that 11,895 Scottish students moved to study in England in
that academic year, a 6.6 per cent increase on the previous year's figures and
the largest number  since records of this type began.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                Essex Chronicle

                             April 21, 2017 Friday

Why Chelmsford College could be the perfect place for you...

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 20-21

LENGTH: 1003  words


SOMETIMES we're confronted by too many choices.  It can feel overwhelming and,
as a consequence, we might put off making a decision altogether.

In the context of education it's hard enough working out what you want to study
sometimes, let alone pairing that with possible career options, checking you've
met entry requirements and then finding someone who offers what you actually
want to learn.

Statistically, 744,000 young people chose to study at a college last year,
compared with 433,000 choosing to stay on at school.

Employers view 17- to 18-year-old college leavers as better prepared for work
than school leavers of the same age (71 per cent compared with 60 per cent).

When the end goal is often to get the best job - choosing a college makes sense.

Choosing to study in a college gives you an entirely different experience of
education to date.

You get the freedom and independence of organising yourself and gain valuable,
"interpersonal" skills of confidence, resilience, improved communication,
teamwork and consideration of others.

These skills come from adapting to a new environment, being treated like an
adult and meeting new people.

There are many colleges - but how do you know how to pick a good one?

Just like an exercise in class you need to gather information to compare and
contrast,  to inform your decision-making.

Chelmsford College has a handy worksheet so you can compare your options more
easily.

There's also a checklist, with the most crucial questions to ask, which is
available from www.chelmsford.ac.uk

As in everyday life, choosing the right college isn't just about the facts and
figures.

It's about how a place makes you feel and what it can offer you.

Most places can take you from A to B, but if you're not having fun on the way,
you're missing out.

There are two short years between being 16 and 18 and they're gone in a blink.

It's important to make the right choice so you can make the most of that
critical time and then launch into what you want to do next.

It's also important to have fun, to make friends and to get the support you
need, when you need it.

Attending an open evening is the easiest way to see if you click with a place.

A YouGov survey commissioned by WPM Education found the most influential factor
when selecting a Further Education or Higher Education institution is the open
day.

It's easy to get wooed by a glossy brochure but it's not until you meet the
people and see for yourself that you get a true sense of how a place feels.

If you can picture yourself feeling at home and having the time of your life,
then you've found the winner.

Andy Sparks, principal of Chelmsford College, said: "We hold a minimum of four
Showcase open evenings throughout the year because we know how important it is
for prospective students and parents to see for themselves what our college is
like.

"You get to meet tutors, find out more about your options and have all your
questions answered in one go.

"There really is no substitute for having a look around.

"It's also inspiring because you can see the quality of work which our current
students are producing."

Marco Iciek, director of learner development and inclusion at Chelmsford
College, says it's important to ask questions about the other aspects of student
life too.

Marco said: "95 per cent of our college courses include trips which provide a
valuable insight into an aspect of the subject being studied.

"Apart from being fun and getting out of the classroom, this adds depth and
variety to learning something and can really help students to understand a topic
in a particular context."

Neil Daniels, catering manager at the college, added: "We provide a free
breakfast to students getting into college between 8am and  9am Tuesday to
Friday and between 9am and 10am on a Monday.

"We know some students come from outside the county and others like to get here
early, so we like to look after them, that way they can meet their friends and
share breakfast together before their course starts."

Clive Lissaman, learning coach co-ordinator and facilitator for the Learner
Voice at Chelmsford College, said: "Learner Voice is an important part of
college life.

"Students get to have their say about the things that matter to them - in
effect, it's a continual process of listening to our customers, hearing what
they say and then taking action then evaluating what we do so we are constantly
refining and developing our college services to meet our students' needs."

Chelmsford College currently has  about  3,500 students and  more than  two
thirds of prospective students who visit a Showcase Open Evening sign up to
start in September.

Chelmsford College students often carve a strong path in their chosen careers.

Zoe Simmons, a catering student, competed in the BBC TV show MasterChef, and
Skye Fulcher studied Level 3 VRQ Patisserie and Confectionery and has now
decided to pursue a career in food journalism and has been accepted to read
English literature at the University of Buckingham.

Nathan Blore studied a Level 3 course in Information Technology, passed with
flying colours and is now undertaking a Higher Apprenticeship with Deloitte.

The college also offers a "post-results service" whereby if your plans change
after you get your GCSE results or you get different results to what you were
expecting you have an opportunity to review your aspirations and see if there's
a different way to achieve them.  Flexibility is key.

Ultimately, what you decide to do next at 16 is up to you. You might want to
keep your options open or know exactly what you want to achieve and have a
meticulous career route mapped out already. People can offer advice, but the
most important thing is to turn up to the open days and see for yourself.

The next showcase open evening to enrol for September will be on Monday, April
24 from 6pm to 8.30pm, where all three campuses will be ready to welcome you.
You can book to attend or just turn up.  Visit www.chelmsford.ac.uk for more
information.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Skye Fulcher
Tutor group Oregano Level 2 VRQ Diploma in Professional Cookery
GROUP OUTING: Public services students enjoying a trip
sense of togetherness: Public services students canoeing
LEARNING THEIR TRADE: Level 2 painting and decorating students
CAREER PATHS MAPPED OUT: In the classroom at Chelmsford College
Artwork 2017

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       March 5, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

American Academy of Family Physicians Identifies List of Commonly Used Tests and
Treatments to Question

LENGTH: 1247  words


New Delhi, March 5 -- Today the American Academy of Family Physicians released
its second list of specific tests or procedures that are commonly ordered, but
not always necessary, in family medicine as part of the Choosing Wisely
campaign, an initiative of the American Board of Internal Medicine Foundation.
The list identifies five targeted, evidence-based recommendations that can
support conversations between patients and physicians about what care is really
necessary.



The AAFP's list identified the following five recommendations:

* Don't schedule elective, non-medically indicated inductions of labor or
cesarean deliveries before 39 weeks, 0 days gestational age. Delivery prior to
39 weeks, 0 days, has been shown to be associated with an increased risk of
learning disabilities and a potential increase in morbidity and mortality. There
are clear medical indications for delivery prior to 39 weeks and 0 days based on
maternal and/or fetal conditions. A mature fetal lung test, in the absence of
appropriate clinical criteria, is not an indication for delivery.

* Avoid elective, non-medically indicated inductions of labor between 39 weeks,
0 days and 41 weeks, 0 days unless the cervix is deemed favorable. Ideally,
labor should start on its own initiative whenever possible. Higher cesarean
delivery rates result from inductions of labor when the cervix is unfavorable.
Health care clinicians should discuss the risks and benefits with their patients
before considering inductions of labor without medical indications.

* Don't screen for carotid artery stenosis (CAS) in asymptomatic adult patients.
There is good evidence that for adult patients with no symptoms of carotid
artery stenosis, the harms of screening outweigh the benefits. Screening could
lead to non-indicated surgeries that result in serious harms, including death,
stroke and heart attack.

* Don't screen women older than 65 years of age for cervical cancer who have had
adequate prior screening and are not otherwise at high risk for cervical cancer.
There is adequate evidence that screening women older than 65 years of age for
cervical cancer who have had adequate prior screening and are not otherwise at
high risk provides little to no benefit.

* Don't screen women younger than 30 years of age for cervical cancer with human
papillomavirus testing, alone or in combination with cytology. There is adequate
evidence that the harms of HPV testing, alone or in combination with cytology,
in women younger than 30 years of age are moderate. The harms include more
frequent testing and invasive diagnostic procedures such as colposcopy and
cervical biopsy. Abnormal screening test results are also associated with
psychological harms, anxiety and distress.

"The American Academy of Family Physicians is committed to the Choosing Wisely
campaign and its mission of sharing evidence-based clinical information about
tests and procedures to help family physicians and their patients make informed
decisions. So much so that the AAFP has extended its involvement, developing a
second list of five screenings and treatments that are frequently overused or
misused," said Glen R. Stream, MD, MBI, board chair of the AAFP. "It has been
estimated that nearly one-third of health care delivered in the United States is
unnecessary. Tests and procedures that lack evidence of their effectiveness put
our patients at risk and drive up the cost of care."

All the lists released today as part of the Choosing Wisely campaign were
developed by individual specialty societies after months of careful
consideration and review. Using the most current evidence about management and
treatment options within their specialty, the societies believe the
recommendations can make a significant impact on patient care, safety and
quality.

The AAFP created its list of clinical recommendations for the second phase of
the Choosing Wisely campaign with the goal of identifying screenings and
procedures in family medicine which evidence suggest might be overused leading
to unnecessary risks, harms and costs. For each item, evidence was reviewed from
appropriate sources such as the Cochrane Collaboration, and the Agency for
Healthcare Research and Quality. The AAFP's Commission on Health of the Public
and Science reviewed and approved the recommendations.

In the case of the first two items on its list - concerning elective,
non-medically indicated inductions of labor or cesarean deliveries - the AAFP
collaborated with the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists in
developing the final language.

Sixteen other organizations are releasing lists along with the AAFP today,
representing more than 350,000 physicians, nurses, pathologists, radiologists
and other health care professionals. They are:

* American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine

* American Academy of Neurology

* American Academy of Ophthalmology

* American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery

* American Academy of Pediatrics

* American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists

* American College of Rheumatology

* American Geriatrics Society

* American Society for Clinical Pathology

* American Society of Echocardiography

* American Urological Association

* Society of Cardiovascular Computed Tomography

* Society of Hospital Medicine

* Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging

* Society of Thoracic Surgeons

* Society for Vascular Medicine

"The AAFP has a long history of leadership in helping physicians be careful
stewards of health care resources. Our ongoing involvement in the Choosing
Wisely campaign underscores family physicians' commitment to ensuring
high-quality, cost-effective care to our patients," Stream said.

In April 2012, nine medical specialty societies each released lists as part of
the Choosing Wisely campaign. To date, more than 130 tests and procedures to
question have been released as part of the campaign, and the specialty societies
are now undertaking considerable efforts to share the recommendations with their
collective membership of more than 725,000 physicians.

The campaign is also reaching millions of consumers nationwide through a stable
of consumer partners, led by Consumer Reports - the world's largest independent
product-testing organization - which has worked with the ABIM Foundation to
distribute patient-friendly resources for consumers and physicians to engage in
these important conversations. Choosing Wisely consumer partners include:

* AARP

* Alliance Health Networks

* The Leapfrog Group

* Midwest Business Group on Health

* Minnesota Health Action Group

* National Business Coalition on Health

* National Business Group on Health

* National Center for Farmworker Health

* National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization

* National Partnership for Women & Families

* Pacific Business Group on Health

* SEIU

* Union Plus

* Wikipedia

In addition, the campaign announced specialty societies who will release new
lists later in 2013. The AAFP will release a third list of five recommendations,
and will be joined by:

* American Academy of Dermatology

* American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons

* American College of Rheumatology*

* American College of Surgeons

* American College of Chest Physicians

* American Headache Society

* AMDA-Dedicated to Long Term Care Medicine

* American Society of Clinical Oncology*

* American Society for Hematology

* American Society for Radiation Oncology

* American Thoracic Society

* Heart Rhythm Society

* North American Spine Society

* Society of General Internal Medicine

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                              May 22, 2017 Monday

Choosing schools has changed with the times

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 721 words

ABSTRACT

Marin IJ Opinion page for Monday, May 22

FULL TEXT

Did moving to Marin help or hinder my children's education? I wrestled with that
question recently returning home from my 50th college reunion.

After growing up in San Francisco's predominantly white Richmond District in the
1950s, my father sent me off to Fisk University in Nashville, his alma mater. It
is what is known today as an "HBCU," an historically black college or
university.

His thinking was to give me an education in the broader sense. He wanted me to
know what it was like to learn in a setting where I was loved, understood,
appreciated, seen for my potential and expected to succeed.

In a way that was ironic. We moved when I was 5 from the predominantly black
Fillmore District for "better" schools. Now I was being sent to a black setting
for the "better schooling." I can explain it to you, but I might not be able to
understand it for you.

Perhaps the answer lies in my family history.

My paternal grandfather was enslaved at birth in 1852. Upon emancipation, he
became a farmer. He bartered agricultural crops in exchange for his tuition to
learn to read and write. Of his 14 children, he sent my father and one of his
brothers off to boarding school, where upon graduation my father became
principal of a four-teacher school.

He was drafted in World War I, exposing him to the broader world. He enrolled at
Fisk in 1919, receiving is BA in the classics. He then took his master's at the
University of Iowa and worked on his doctorate at the University of Indiana. My
mother's father, born during Reconstruction, achieved a doctorate in divinity,
sending my mother off to several HBCUs from where she ultimately graduated.

What does this have to do with my children?

Anticipating raising a family, I moved to Marin in the mid-'70s. I thought the
schools would be better. My older boys went to Redwood High School, my younger
daughter to Branson School, my youngest son, following his graduation from Mount
Tamalpais School, "returned" to the city to go to Saint Ignatius high school.

The choices my children faced choosing colleges gave them greater options than I
had. Because of the fight my father waged along with Thurgood Marshall and
others to desegregate the schools, they could attend any school of their
choosing. The University of Michigan, Oregon, Georgetown and Fairfield were
their choices.

Did they get good educations, allowing them to go to these schools?  Yes. Will
they feel the camaraderie, closeness, warmth and unity I felt returning to my
alma mater? Perhaps not in the same way.

The argument today involves questions of integration, disintegration,
assimilation and self-segregation.

Today, black colleges aren't the only option for African-American students
leaving high school. Believe it or not there are currently more black students
at the formerly segregated Vanderbilt University than at Fisk.

Black colleges often represent the choice and the haven for children who are the
first in their families to enter college. The support and encouragement they
need may be more readily available in a setting specifically geared to their
perceived and indeed real needs.

With many non-federally funded HBCU teetering on the edge of financial
extinction, there is a continued struggle to keep them alive, particularly in
light of their questioned relevance.

Consider the argument by those such as the late sociologist and scholar W.E.B.
Dubois: integrate, but don't assimilate. His position was assimilation, if it
leads to cultural disintegration, is destructive. It also begs the question of
what good is integration if students insist upon strict self-segregation, which
occurs today among many black students in white schools.

At the graduate school I attended, black students comprised 22 out of a total
student body of 550. By peer pressure, we were expected to eat at the "black
table" breakfast, lunch and dinner. I rebelled, feeling it limited my total
educational experience.

One of my classmates at the reunion advised the seniors at Fisk to "stay black."
My advice was "stay human," i.e. open to the broader world of people, ideas and
experiences.

It benefitted me and I believe, my children.

Noah Griffin of Tiburon is a public affairs consultant, speaker and musical
performer. He is a former public member of the IJ's editorial board.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2017 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                            January 19, 2007 Friday

Students rewarded for maths progress

BYLINE:  Jo Sharp,Kayleigh Rogers,Kim WalkerFaculty of Business, Computing and
Law

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 347 words


A Trio of students within the university's Faculty of Business, Computing and
Law are to receive mathematics prizes in recognition of their outstanding
academic work.

Their achievements have been highlighted by the faculty's managers, Jenny
Baldwin, marketing manager, and Erin Parker, marketing assistant.

It is double delight for Jo Sharp, 22, from Amersham, Buckinghamshire, who won
the Stage Three Mathematics Prize. She also graduates at our awards ceremonies,
having combined mathematics with educational studies to gain first-class
honours.

Jo's dissertation investigated the reasons behind maths undergraduates choosing
or not choosing to proceed to a career in teaching. She is now working for
Buckinghamshire Chilterns University College promoting higher education to the
community and to prospective students.

Elsewhere, Kayleigh Rogers is studying on the specialist programme Mathematical
Studies with Education and has scooped the Stage One Prize. She is now in her
second year.

Erin said: "Kayleigh is keen to share her enthusiasm and skills in mathematics
through her involvement in the university's mentoring scheme, helping fellow
students who come along to the drop-in maths clinics."

Kayleigh, 19, of Burton, also worked alongside maths teachers at the successful
Aimhigher Maths Conference, Raising the Grade,  at the University of Derby's
Kedleston Road campus earlier this year.

The conference was organised and funded by the Aimhigher Derbyshire Project in
partnership with the University and supported by teachers from 25 local schools
and maths consultants from Derby City and Derbyshire County Local Authorities.

Its key aim was to help pupils achieve better maths GCSE grades and it will be
repeated in March.

An estimated 500 pupils were identified as being capable of gaining maths GCSE
grade C or above but  predicted to get grade D.

And Kim Walker, who is now in her final year of study at Derby, scooped this
year's Stage Two Mathematics Prize. The 24-year-old, from Derby, is on a course
in Mathematical Studies and was rewarded for her ability and enthusiasm.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  Mosman & Lower North Shore Daily (Australia)

                             May 18, 2006 Thursday

Best brains pick teaching

SECTION: Pg. A07

LENGTH: 182  words


TEACHING is fast becoming the career of choice for some of the state's brightest
students, according to one of the first Australian studies to examine the
motivations of university students.

Findings of the University of Sydney study, It's Always Been My Dream:
Investigating Preservice Teachers' Motivations for Choosing to Teach, have
recently been released.

More than 90 per cent of the students surveyed were in the top 10 per cent of
their HSC cohort, and had university entrance marks of 90 or above.

The study also reported altruism, personal fulfillment and working with young
people as major motivations for taking up teaching. Inspirational teachers also
figured large in the reasons for choosing teaching over other careers.

The study is the work of Jacqueline Manuel and John Hughes, from the
university's Faculty of Education and Social Work.

Teacher recruitment campaigns across Australia in recent years have sparked a
"wave of interest" in teaching as a career.

The study reported the web site www.teach.nsw.edu.au sparked more than 19,000
inquiries in 2003, its first year of operation.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MOS


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Parramatta Advertiser (Australia)

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday

Best brains pick teaching careers

SECTION: Pg. A05

LENGTH: 206  words


TEACHING is fast becoming the career of choice for some of the state's brightest
students, according to one of the first Australian studies to examine the
motivations of university students.

Findings of the University of Sydney study, It's Always Been My Dream:
Investigating Preservice Teachers' Motivations for Choosing to Teach, have
recently been released.

More than 90 per cent of the students surveyed were in the top 10 per cent of
their HSC cohort, and had university entrance marks of 90 or above.

The study also reported altruism, personal fulfillment and working with young
people as major motivations for taking up teaching. Inspirational teachers also
figured large in the reasons for choosing teaching over other careers.

The study is the work of Jacqueline Manuel and John Hughes, from the
university's Faculty of Education and Social Work.

Teacher recruitment campaigns across Australia in recent years have sparked a
''wave of interest'' in teaching as a career.

The study reported the web site www.teach.nsw.edu.au sparked more than 19,000
inquiries in 2003, its first year of operation.

While more female school-leavers chose teaching as a first career choice, more
men took up teaching as a second or later career preference.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PAG


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Manly Daily (Australia)

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday

Best brains pick teaching careers

SECTION: Pg. A03

LENGTH: 205  words


TEACHING is fast becoming the career of choice for some of the state's brightest
students, according to one of the first Australian studies to examine the
motivations of university students.

Findings of the University of Sydney study, It's Always Been My Dream:
Investigating Preservice Teachers' Motivations for Choosing to Teach, have
recently been released.

More than 90 per cent of the students surveyed were in the top 10 per cent of
their HSC cohort, and had university entrance marks of 90 or above.

The study also reported altruism, personal fulfilment and working with young
people as major motivations for taking up teaching. Inspirational teachers also
figured large in the reasons for choosing teaching over other careers.

The study is the work of Jacqueline Manuel and John Hughes, from the
university's Faculty of Education and Social Work.

Teacher recruitment campaigns across Australia in recent years have sparked a
''wave of interest" in teaching as a career.

The study reported the website www.teach.nsw.edu.au sparked more than 19,000
inquiries in 2003, its first year of operation.

While more female school-leavers chose teaching as a first career choice, more
men took up teaching as a second or later career preference.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: MAN


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           September 5, 2013 Thursday

SECTION: SPECIAL REPORTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 617 words


Choosing your Leaving Cert subjects is a big decision. You'll be studying these
subjects for two years, they can effect what you decide to study in college and
you may even end up choosing a career based on these subjects. So this isn't a
decision you should take lightly. Here are a few factors to consider when you're
making these tough decisions.DECISIONS, DECISIONS, DECISIONSDepending on what
you want to study after the Leaving Cert, some subjects are a "matriculation
requirement" for certain courses. This means that some subjects are mandatory to
gain entry into a college course.

For example, a minimum C3 in higher level chemistry is required for veterinary,
a minimum C3 in higher level maths is required for engineering, and a minimum C3
at higher level in two science subjects is required to study science in Trinity.

It's important not to lock yourself out of a course you want to study by not
choosing a required subject. Do your research. Different colleges have different
requirements for the same course. Check each college prospectus and make sure
you've covered the course requirements for what you want to study after the
Leaving Cert.YOU'RE GOOD AT WHAT YOU ENJOYIt's much harder to do well in a
subject that you don't enjoy or aren't naturally good at. Make sure to choose
your favourite subject(s). When it comes to studying each subject, it is
important you find them interesting to be able to excel at them. Studying a
subject you enjoy can decrease the pressure and workload immensely.

If you're good at a subject it will come naturally to you. Take all of the
budding engineers we have - these students tend to be naturals at mathematical
subjects. Therefore physics and applied maths might be subjects that they would
like and have an interest in, and therefore do well in. ADOPT A STRATEGYAlways
pick the subjects you want to do and that you think you'll be good at. If you
find an area that you are particularly good at, you could boost your ability by
choosing subjects which complement each other.

Some subjects can contain an overlap with other subjects, such as physics and
applied maths or biology and agricultural science. Approaching subject choice in
this way may help to lighten your workload.

For example, if you study both biology and home economics, you'll only have to
learn about biomolecules once. TEST YOUR COMPATIBILITY

If you're unsure of what subjects to choose, there are aptitude tests available
through your school or even online. These often include a series of questions
related to your personality. Your answers are then calculated to match what
subjects or career is best suited to you.

It might also be very useful to do an interest test at this point. An interest
test can be the first indication of what career paths might appeal to you. If
you're very unsure of what subjects to choose, aptitude tests or interest tests
can often be a great starting point.ADVICE IS ONLY A QUESTION AWAYIf you're
wondering about whether or not to choose a subject it's important to do some
investigating. Browse the outline, chapters or headings of the course and see if
they appeal to you. Arrange to meet with the teacher of the subject and ask what
will be covered in the course.

Meeting your career guidance counsellor can be of great value. Your guidance
counsellor will have experience in helping students choose subjects that suit
their desired career path, or subjects which complement each other. He or she
will also have knowledge of subject requirements which are necessary to enter
into particular college courses.USEFUL WEBSITESqualifax.ie, cao.ie,
careersportal.ie, sites of the institutions  you'll be applying to.MARY DORGAN,
GUIDANCE COUNSELLOR

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               Lincolnshire Echo

                                 June 18, 2003

Make careful course choices

SECTION: Features; General; Advertorials; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 547 words


With the academic year coming to an end many students are turning their thoughts
to the next stage of their lives.  For many who are currently sitting their
A-levels the next step is usually college or university.

Each year more and more students are going on to higher education.

They view this as the best way to climb the career ladder.

And for as many as half a million mainly young people the decision to go to
university is often exciting and challenging.

For those who are thinking about university the biggest decision is to choose
which will be the best degree course and the best university for them to attend.

As those who have already encountered the UCAS entry book will know there are
listings of more or less every conceivable course and countless universities,
colleges and different types of higher education choices to select from.

When choosing the best university or college there are many things to consider.

Will you be happy there? Does the university have a good record of graduates
finding work after qualifying? What are the accommodation and facilities like?
Does it offer a good social life? Is it easy to travel to and from your home?
When choosing your course it is worth thinking carefully about how it could
affect your career options after graduating.

This is something you may have already considered when choosing A-levels. For
example if you want to enter a profession like medicine.

Once you have decided upon a degree subject, you should research what your
chosen course involves at different universities.

For example there is a vast difference between, say, one English course and
another.

And there are not only courses for the academic there are also a huge number of
vocational courses available.

But for all the students heading off to university this autumn many of them will
be leaving home for the first time, dealing with money - and debt.

Mandy Telford, national president of the National Union of Students, says that,
many new students are not prepared for their new life, and warns: "The main
message is that new students should be careful - with their money, welfare and
security.

"They should make the most of their opportunities, and shouldn't be afraid to
ask for help if they need it." There are, of course, all sorts of problems that
students can face at university, but perhaps the most obvious one is debt.

The NUS estimates that by the end of their courses many students could be facing
debts of up to £15,000. The figure comes from costs including tuition fees,
which are just over £1,000 for an average degree course, rent amounting to as
much as £2,280 a year - or £3,300 in London - living expenses which the NUS
estimates at £7,000 overall (including rent) for the 38 weeks of term.

Many students take on student loans, which do not have to be repaid until they
are earning more than £10,000 after their course has finished, and on which
interest is only the inflation rate.

But an increasing amount work during term time - the NUS estimates 43 per cent
of students do so, with 90 per cent working during the holidays.

Mandy Telford advises; "It is crucial that students today spend time researching
not only their institutions and courses, but also how they are going to get by
at university."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2003 Lincolnshire Echo

                              245 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                            November 26, 2006 Sunday
                                  City Edition

Filings set Dec. 4-6

BYLINE: Compiled by Staff Writers Beth Gollob and Susan Simpson

SECTION: NEWS; EDUCATION BRIEFS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 597 words



Filing will take place Dec. 4-6 for open school board positions statewide.

The election is Feb. 13, with runoffs April 3.

To qualify, a candidate must:

Be a registered voter.

Have lived in the school district for at least six months.

Not be convicted of a felony or misdemeanor embezzlement.

Hold a high school diploma or certificate of high school equivalency.

Not be related by blood or marriage to a school district employee or board
member.

Oklahoma has more than 2,700 school board members.

For more information, go to the state Education Department Web site at
www.sde.state.ok.us/pro/schbd.html or call your local county election board.

More choosing prep classes

More Oklahoma high school freshmen are choosing the rigors of college
preparatory courses than not, state Education Department officials said this
week.

Under the state's new high school reform measure, the Achieving Classroom
Excellence Act, students and parents can choose whether to take college
preparatory or core courses.

Statistics released this week show more than 45,000 Oklahoma freshmen enrolled
in college prep courses this year, with about 6,700 -- about 13 percent --
instead taking basic courses.

Scholarship established

Christene Begley has established a scholarship at Oklahoma Panhandle State
University in the name of her late husband, Jack Begley, who served in the state
House of Representatives for 14 years and is an alumnus.

Begley was employed for 20 years at the school in a variety of capacities
including basketball coach, athletic director, registrar and director of
admissions.

Each year, the scholarship will benefit a freshman entering the school who
graduates from a high school in District 61 which includes Texas, Beaver,
Cimarron and Harper counties.

For more information, call the Panhandle State Foundation at (580) 349-1392.

Nurses aid awarded

The Butterfield Memorial Foundation of Oklahoma City has awarded $60,000 to
Oklahoma Christian University to provide scholarships for prenursing students.

"This gift enables many more students to obtain a nursing degree and help ease
the critical shortage of nurses in our community," said Mike O'Neal, university
president.

OC launched a bachelor of science in nursing degree this fall.

Essay contest entries sought

Students in fifth- through 12th-grades are invited to use the words of President
Lincoln to illustrate the importance of personal responsibility during the
Oklahoma City National Memorial & Museum annual National Essay Contest.

Students in each grade category will use a predetermined quote for their essays.

Entries must be typed, double-spaced and be accompanied by a release form.

Teachers may submit up to five entries per grade per school.

Entries may be submitted by mail, e-mail or hand-delivered to the Oklahoma City
National Memorial.

All entries must be received by 5 p.m. Feb. 1.

First-place winners in each category will receive a weekend trip to Washington
to tour the Lincoln Memorial and attend an NBA game.

For more information, call deputy director Lynne Roller at 235-3313 or go to
www.oklahomacitynationalmemorial. org and click on "education."

Author to speak

Bestselling author Malcolm Gladwell kicks off this year's Oklahoma State
University business speaker series at 10 a.m. Dec. 5 at the Cox Business Center
in Oklahoma City and 10 a.m. Dec. 7 at the Renaissance Tulsa Hotel.

Gladwell, a staff writer for The New Yorker since 1996, is the author of "The
Tipping Point" and "Blink."

Registration is available at  www.cepd.okstate.edu.

Compiled by Staff Writers Beth Gollob and Susan Simpson

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday

More grads still opting to start own businesses

BYLINE: ZHAO XINYING

LENGTH: 656  words


The percentage of Chinese college graduates choosing to start their own
businesses has risen for three consecutive years, a survey shows.

Graduates use posters to promote themselves at a job fair in Bozhou, Anhui
province, on Sunday. The percentage of college graduates opting to start their
own businesses has risen for three years running and the average monthly salary
of self-employed graduates is higher than those working for others, a survey
shows. [Photo by Liu Qinli/For China Daily]

The percentage of Chinese college graduates choosing to start their own
businesses has risen for three consecutive years, a survey shows.

It also found that the average monthly salary of self-employed graduates is
higher than those who are not.

Of the college students who graduated in 2013, 2.3 percent started their own
business, higher than the figure for 2012 (2 percent), 2011 (1.6 percent) and
2010 (1.5 percent).

This is according to the 2014 Chinese College Graduates' Employment Annual
Report, released on Monday by MyCOS, an education consulting and research
institute in Beijing.

The survey polled 268,000 graduates from 28 provinces and regions.

Chen Yu, vice-president of the China Association for Employment Promotion, said
the increase results from government efforts in recent years to support
graduates in starting their own businesses, such as reduced intervention, the
offer of micro loans and cuts in taxes and fees.

"These measures provide a good environment for college graduates who intend to
start their own businesses," Chen said.

The survey also found the education sector is graduates' preferred choice when
they decide to start a business, with 15 percent of them choosing to begin their
careers in this area.

Other areas, including retail, wholesale, architecture, media, information and
telecoms, are among the top choices.

Feng Lijuan, chief consultant at 51job.com, a major recruiting website in China,
said starting a business in these fields is comparatively easier and college
graduates have a bigger chance of keeping their businesses going.

"The education sector, especially test-oriented training, is expanding quickly
in China and therefore college graduates, as a group of highly educated people,
can easily find a place in it," Feng said.

College graduate lost in dim job market
Garment factory owner frets over labor shortage
Research shows post-1990 generation picky about jobsAs for the retail and
wholesale industries, Feng said a series of online trading websites such as
taobao.com provide a simple and convenient platform for college graduates to
establish their own online stores.

The report shows that only 8 percent of self-employed college graduates started
their own businesses because of difficulty in landing jobs, while 48 percent did
so because they wanted to become entrepreneurs.

Other reasons include having good entrepreneurial ideas, being invited by
friends or peers to start a business together and believing in the income
prospects of entrepreneurship.

The report said college students who started their own businesses after
graduating in 2010 now earn an average of 8,424 yuan ($1,349) a month, 41
percent higher than the average for all college students who graduated that
year.

Despite the good incomes earned by college graduate entrepreneurs, experts
voiced concern for such businesses.

Feng believes that real entrepreneurship lies in innovative developments in
areas such as the high-tech sector.

"But most Chinese college graduates can't make it with their current knowledge
structure and therefore most of the Chinese graduate entrepreneurs end up in the
service industry."

Chen said, "An ideal entrepreneurship program can solve the problem of college
graduates' employment and also create new industries and promote the development
of the economy, science and technology, just like Steve Jobs and Apple did."

zhaoxinying@chinadaily.com.cn

Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 5, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

THE HEALTH CARE DEBATE: THE HOSPITALS;
Congress Threatening Specialized Residents

BYLINE: By MELINDA HENNEBERGER

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1547 words


Before noon on a recent day, Dr. Salvatore Caruana had already made his usual
morning rounds, attended an academic conference on facial reconstructive
techniques and diagnosed a recurrence of throat cancer.

By 7 that evening, en route to perform an emergency tracheotomy -- his third
surgery of the day at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan -- he said he had not
yet had time to eat, but had gulped three cups of coffee.

While they are in training, young medical residents like Dr. Caruana provide the
bulk of patient care in the city's teaching hospitals. A specialist in
otolaryngology, the medical specialty that deals with the head and neck --
everything north of the collarbone and south of the eyebrows, as he puts it --
Dr. Caruana works 80-hour weeks for $40,000 a year. And because of the huge
number of specialists already practicing in New York, he says he feels pressure
to specialize further.

"In New York you have to specialize more and more to market yourself, just to be
able to do what you want to do," said Dr. Caruana, 31. So next year, he may
pursue the still narrower field of head and neck cancer.

But his career path is one President Clinton hopes to discourage with national
health care legislation that would curb the number of specialists by cutting
Federal subsidies to hospitals for training them.

A Push for Primary Care

Proponents of overhauling the current system say an oversupply of such
specialists is driving up medical costs with needless but expensive high-tech
procedures. They want to channel more doctors into preventive and primary care
that would save money by avoiding unnecessary hospitalizations.

And both health care bills now before the Congress would do just that: The
Senate bill would substantially reduce the total number of residents, mandate
that a majority of remaining residency slots go to primary-care doctors, and
create a national council that would oversee residency programs in the year
2001.

On the House side, the cuts are less specific, but the bill would also form a
national council to oversee graduate medical training. It says that payments to
hospitals for training residents "would be contingent upon an institution's
conformance with the national health work force plan" recommended by the
council.

Many supporters of the bills say these measures are necessary, not only to save
money, but also to get doctors back to the basics of providing preventive care,
treating common ailments and delivering babies, particularly in inner cities and
rural areas, where generalists are in especially short supply.

Some say hospitals actually make money on residency programs, with doctors in
training supplying cheap labor and pulling in lucrative Federal subsidies.
Sometimes, critics say, the subsidies exceed the actual outlays.

But hospital administrators, who insist their residents are strictly
not-for-profit, argue that they cannot afford to lose them, either financially
or medically. And they say proposed legislation would disproportionately hurt
cities like New York, Boston, Chicago and Houston, which have a heavy
concentration of teaching hospitals.

The Greater New York Hospital Association projected that the cuts could cost
teaching hospitals nationwide about $2.5 billion a year and those in the New
York metropolitan area, where 15 percent of the country's physicians are
trained, as much as $566 million annually.

Threat to an Industry

Health care is, in fact, the New York region's leading industry, and teaching
hospitals are at its center. Dr. John W. Rowe, the president of the Mount Sinai
Medical Center in Manhattan, which trains about 600 residents, said, "For New
York, here's the real point: If you take the five hospitals in the U.S. that
receive the most funds," for residents, "three are in New York within five miles
of each other and surrounding a large indigent population."

Besides Mount Sinai, Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx and
Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan, the Mayo Clinic in Rochester,
Minn., and the Cleveland Clinic receive the most and stand the most to lose, he
said.

And although the current bills give hospitals until 2001 or 2002 to make the
changes, New York hospital officials continue to lobby hard against the
legislation.

"It's D-Day right now," said Kenneth E. Raske, president of the hospital
association, who called the provisions "superfluous to reform."

"Basically we have through the weekend, before the House bill is introduced
early next week, to get this changed," he said. "It's going to be a rough road."


'Residents Are Cheap'

Hospital administrators, who say they would lose about 25 percent of their
residents under the plan, maintain that entire areas of care could be decimated
if the lobbying efforts are not successful.

"Residents are cheap" and would be expensive to replace, said Dr. Karl P. Adler,
the president of St. Vincent's. But more important, he said, proposed cuts would
reduce the ranks of his 325 residents by about a third and could significantly
hinder the hospital's ability to deliver critical services.

The graduate medical education of hospital interns, residents and fellows can
last anywhere from 3 to 10 years, depending on the level of specialization. At a
time when hospitals are under intense pressure to cut costs, hospital officials
say, it would be especially difficult to replace each resident they lose with
two or three physicians' assistants or nurse practitioners, who make upwards of
$50,000 annually, work 35-hour weeks and are already in short supply.

"The cost will be huge, but more importantly, these replacements don't exist in
the marketplace," said Dr. Stephen G. Baum, the director of the department of
medicine at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. "There aren't enough
physicians' assistants under the current system, so we'd have to set up schools
for them and attract them. It's just a myth that these folks are out there."

Too Many Specialists

But there are already more than enough specialists by any measure, and by the
end of the decade 40 percent of all medical specialists could be unnecessary,
according to a study released last month by researchers at the Johns Hopkins
School of Public Health.

Virtually everyone, from the Clintons to medical school deans and most hospital
officials, agrees that the number of doctors who specialize should be scaled
back. Currently, about 60 percent of New York residents are in specialties, with
the remaining 40 percent training to provide primary care. The goal of advocates
for revamping the health care system is a mix of 55 percent primary-care doctors
and 45 percent specialists.

But just how a more even balance between basic and specialty care should be
achieved is a divisive issue, with hospital officials saying that both vital
research and care for poor patients would be seriously compromised by the
proposed legislation.

"I believe we need more primary care, positively," said Dr. Steven M. Safyer, a
medical director at Montefiore, where 750 residents are in training. "Nobody
here is arguing with the goals." But unless the mix of generalist and specialist
residents is changed slowly and carefully, he said, patients will suffer as a
result.

On the Front Lines

In the immediate absence of an adequate primary-care system, the hospital
officials say, the residents who provide the bulk of care in emergency rooms and
hospital clinics are the only doctors many uninsured or Medicaid patients ever
see.

In a clinic at St. Vincent's, Dr. Caruana was peering down the throat of one
such patient, a man living in a drug treatment center who he was sure had a new
malignancy. "From what I see -- I can't tell you for sure -- it may be that this
has come back," he told him. "Is there any way I can get in touch with you
tomorrow?

"The doctors will take a little piece of this to see exactly what it is and give
you something to make you more comfortable," he said to the man, who cried when
doctors stuck a tube through his nose to get a better look at his larynx, but
showed no emotion when he heard the bad news.

Later, in an office across from the examining room, Dr. Caruana said: "There's a
belief from above that primary-care physicians can do more, so we don't need as
many specialists. But a regular physician would have looked in that man's mouth
and not seen that," meaning the tumor.

"To ask primary-care physicians to be thrown in that situation will delay a
diagnosis," he said.

And another St. Vincent's resident, Dr. Joseph Hannan, who is specializing in
cardiology, said young doctors won't easily be deterred from pursuing the
specialty of their choice.

Dr. Hannan said he went to medical school (State University of New York at Stony
Brook, class of '88) to become a primary-care physician. But during his hospital
training, he said, he has developed a taste for the thrill of high-tech
diagnostics, the respect of generalists seeking advice on difficult cases, the
intoxicating power to alter the course of disease. And the money appeals, yes.

"I'm sort of hooked on it now," said Dr. Hannan, a soft-spoken 36-year-old from
Brooklyn. And, he said, "a happy physician probably provides better care than an
unhappy one."


LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Salvatore Caruana, left, in the operating room at St.
Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. A medical resident who specializes in medicine
that deals with the head and neck, he is feeling the pressure to specialize
further. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

Graph: "SNAPSHOT: Choosing a Field" tracks percentage of graduating nedical
sutdents choosing training in primary care (which includes general family
practice, general internal medicine and general pediatrics) and those choosing
other specialties. Graph runs from 1983 through 1993. (Source: Association of
American Medical Colleges)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company

                              248 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            December 4, 2012 Tuesday

'Many youths making a career in agriculture'

BYLINE: Kevin Mendonsa

SECTION: MYSORE

LENGTH: 312 words


MYSORE: Many youngsters had been choosing medical science, computer, management,
engineering, finance and accounting and law. But the latest trend among the
youths, especially girls, is choosing agriculture as a career, said S Ayyappan,
director general (ICAR) and secretary (DARE), Krishi Bhavan (New Delhi).

He was delivering a keynote address on the first day of the two-day seminar on
'Application of Science and Technology to Promote Agricultural Growth and Value
Addition' organized by JSS Educational Institution, University of Mysore, and
Forum of Former Vice-Chancellors of Karnataka.

"The lucrative career that agriculture promises the youths made them to join
agriculture colleges and universities. Women are ready to cultivate land, which
hitherto was considered as hard work. They too have realized that choosing
agriculture as a career is not bad."

Speaking on youths playing the role of agriculturists, he said the intake and
placement in the sector has drastically increased for the past five years.
"About 40% are girls," he added.

Quoting Jawaharlal Nehru's words 'if agriculture fails, nothing else will
survive', Ayyappan said it is relevant to this day. "In India, 65-crore
population depends on agriculture. Though the country produces enough food, it
faces storage problems. Sadly, 25 crore people suffer from malnutrition," he
added.

Throwing light on the present agriculture scenario, he said 65% activities are
rain-fed. "Climate change, natural disasters and cyclones make it to suffer.
Indian agriculture has improved over the years, but quality seeds are the need
of the hour," he said, and added that Karnataka stands first in horticulture
produce and quality milk production.

Commenting on organic farming, Ayyappan said it is not a solution for
agriculture revolution. "It depends on the nature of soil," he added.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Redbird alum reflects bright outlook for liberal arts majors

LENGTH: 1221  words

DATELINE: New York



 Chicago: Illinois State University has issued the following news release:





  Her light brown eyes that were full of youthful hope for the future seemed to
become clouded like a gray, overcast sky on a soon-to-be rainy day. She rocked
in her seat as she spoke with a little less anticipation than her career advisor
usually witnessed from their passionate conversations. "Just two more semesters
before I put on my cap and gown," she shared as she looked aimlessly down at the
floor twisting the golden ring on her middle finger that she bought just a week
ago as a personal graduation present. "Seriously! As much as I love my major,
what in the world am I going to do with this degree?"



 This is a common dilemma for many graduating students, particularly those
studying liberal arts. But the outlook for those in these fields isn't as tough
as it may seem for these soon-to-be professionals. In fact, what leads to a
candidate's potential for finding a great job or career path may be much easier
than one may think.



 Skills matter



 The National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) and professionals in
the career services field have always found that employers want candidates with
skills that enable them to contribute to their organization's overall success.
But over the past few years, the most desirable skills are ones that cut across
all majors. According to an online survey conducted by Hart Research Associates,
93 percent of employers surveyed stated candidates' capacity to think
critically, communicate clearly, and solve complex problems are even more
important than one's undergraduate field of study.*

 According to the National Association of Colleges and Employers 2016 Job
Outlook, employers look at more than an applicant's major when choosing
candidates.



 According to the National Association of Colleges and Employers 2016 Job
Outlook, employers look at more than an applicant's major when choosing
candidates.



 Furthermore, NACE has recently adopted career readiness competencies that
incorporate similar concepts. While field-specific knowledge developed through
their college education is essential, students need to develop and expand their
skills so they can position themselves as professionals with knowledge,
experience, and as essential-skill holders. They can do so by taking their
industry knowledge, principles, and theories learned and applying them into
class projects, volunteer work, practicums or internships, or active involvement
in registered student organizations (RSOs). These experiences allow them to not
only develop their skills, but also help them to identify and promote those
skills when seeking and applying for jobs, even those outside their major.



 "Students typically focus on researching career options only through the lens
of their major, instead of looking more broadly at the skills that they possess
that can open many career options available to them within various industries,"
said Career Center Associate Director for Student Relations Mike Minton, Ph.D.
"However, careers are not that easily identifiable for all majors, especially
those in liberal arts.



 "Philosophy, history, anthropology, and geology are a few good examples.
Students have developed some highly desirable skills through their education,
such as writing, communication, data analysis, and creating and conducting
presentations. If students combine these skills with those developed through
on-campus involvement in RSOs and/or internship experiences, they can expand
their career options. They just have to think outside the box of traditional
jobs that they may think their majors fit into."



 For example, according to Department of Sociology and Anthropology Chair James
Skibo, students don't have to major in business or management in order to work
in the corporate world.



 "We have seen them enter management trainee programs, become human resource
managers, researchers, and even marketing professionals, all at major
corporations," Skibo said. "We've seen some become attorneys. Another works at
IBM. Another is a researcher at a major museum, while another conducts policy
analysis at a medical institute. Then, there are those who stay in their
industry but take on a different type of role, like one of our alums who started
her career as a grant writer at a local nonprofit organization, and moved up to
become the assistant director."

 Redbird reflects bright outlook

 Raven Harrington uses the transferable skills she attained in sociology to be
successful in her role as a management trainee.



 Raven Harrington uses the transferable skills she attained in sociology to be
successful in her role as a management trainee.



 Raven Harrington '16 is a Redbird who took advantage of the many transferable
skills that she developed from her undergraduate study in sociology and applied
to a position atypical to her major.



 She is currently in Minnesota serving the first year of a two-year assignment
as a management trainee for the rental division at Cintas Corporation.



 As a sociology major, business management was not where Harrington saw her
future when she first came to Illinois State as a transfer student in 2013. But
after taking classes in sociology and learning essential skills such as
communication, relationship building, and working with diverse people, her role
at Cintas isn't too far removed from her major as one may think.



 "I loved studying sociology. I had so many amazing opportunities where I was
able to touch the lives of others. I served as a resident associate for a
homeless shelter, managed crisis calls at a community center as a volunteer, and
counseled teenage boys suffering from substance abuse at a neighborhood service
organization as an intern. All were the kind of experiences that you would
expect as a sociology major," said Harrington.



 "But what I learned from those experiences is what made me a professional. I
learned how to adapt to people who are different from me: by age, race,
education, or life experience. I learned how to listen to others to really hear
and understand their needs so that I can help solve their problems or provide
effective solutions.



 "I use those skills daily as I serve my customers, my colleagues, and my
supervisors. The communication and interpersonal skills that I developed while
serving clients as a student are extremely valuable to me and always will be no
matter what career I am in."



 Harrington attributes her career success not only to the opportunities provided
to her by her academic program, but also to those she took advantage of from the
Career Center.



 "I met Career Center Director and Illinois State alum Pamela Cooper '94 from a
fellow student," Harrington said. "As I shared my interests with her, she
introduced me to employers at career fairs. (That's how I met the recruiters
from Cintas.) Later, she introduced me to Career Advisor Laurenn York, who
showed me how to think about my skills and experiences more broadly to see the
many career opportunities I could pursue. She also showed me how to restructure
my résumé to display my skills, and conducted mock interviews with me. They
really helped me to reinvent myself from a student to a professional."

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                            March 16, 2016 Wednesday
                              CourierMail Edition

Parents urged to not treat sick kids

BYLINE: SUE DUNLEVY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 383  words


CHILDREN with ear infections will be refused antibiotics and parents are being
told they shouldn't give pain relievers to reduce a fever under a crackdown on
unnecessary medical treatment.

Everything you thought you knew about treating common ailments is being turned
on its head after doctors reviewed the medical evidence for 61 of the most
commonly sought medical treatments.

Fourteen prestigious medical colleges have nominated areas of waste and
inappropriate treatment as part of the NPS Choosing Wisely campaign in a bid to
rein in health costs and improve medical practice.

In a decision that will be confronting for parents whose children are screaming
in pain from an ear infection, they recommend against routine use of antibiotics
in kids aged 2-12.

"Regardless of whether one or both eardrums are red or bulging, antibiotics do
not reduce pain at 24 hours," the Royal Australian College of General
Practitioners says.

Instead, parents should use paracetamol or ibuprofen to control the pain.
Antibiotics should only be given if the child has a fever, is vomiting or
lethargic, says the president of the Royal Australian College of General
Practitioners Dr Frank Jones.

Parents are also likely to baulk at a recommendation by the Australian College
of Nursing not to give kids paracetamol or ibuprofen to bring down their
temperature when they are ill.

The Choosing Wisely campaign also calls for the prescribing of antibiotics to
infants with a fever to stop because it is "low value" and "can be dangerous, in
delaying presentation to hospital by inappropriately reassuring patients".

One in 14 kids have side effects from antibiotics and their overuse is fuelling
the rise of antibiotic-resistant infections.

Palliative care rather than expensive intensive care solutions should be used as
people come to the end of their life, the review found. People near the end of
their life should be taken off medications that are used to prevent disease and
people with dementia should not be fed through tubes.

Australian Medical Association president Professor Brian Owler said the Choosing
Wisely campaign acknowledged the role of doctors as stewards of the health
system."We've looked at the evidence and come up with recommendations that
certain practices are not providing the best value," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Courier-Mail


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             July 10, 2014 Thursday

It's nearly housefull at six city engineering colleges

BYLINE: Adarsh Jain

SECTION: COIMBATORE

LENGTH: 392 words


COIMBATORE: At least six city colleges are close to filling all seats as the
third day of engineering counseling came to a close on Wednesday. The trend saw
a new turn, when three of the top ten students in the rank list chose a college
in Coimbatore over Anna University, Chennai.

A self-financing college of a well-known educational trust that was approved by
the All India Council for Technical Education was close to being filled even on
the second day. "It is not new that Coimbatore has been a preferred destination
for students when it comes to engineering. The reputation of some engineering
colleges draws students from every part of the state to Coimbatore," the
principal of one of the six engineering colleges said.

Many academics feel that the industry base that the city offers adds to the
advantage of engineering colleges. "The interaction between industry and
institute is imperative for students to develop their skills. The market demands
industry-ready candidates and since Coimbatore has a well established industry,
students do not think twice before choosing a college in Coimbatore," a
mechanical engineering professor said.

Of the six city institutes, one is a government college, two are government
aided and three self-financing colleges. Most branches had no seats available in
the open category. While some reservation seats were still vacant, professors
feel that they would easily be filled. "Each college has an image based on
academic performance and placement records," said the principal of one
self-financing college. "Students look at these records before choosing their
college. Also, word of mouth from the alumni makes a difference," said the
mechanical engineering professor.

Some academics feel there is a brand image among students. "A student feels
proud when he is associated with the name of a renowned institute in the state.
It is a different feeling altogether," said a student who chose electrical and
electronics engineering in one of the two government aided colleges in the city.

Some students said that the fee is also important. "I studied in a government
school and my parents cannot afford the fees of a self-financing college. So,
government and government-aided colleges were my first preference," said a
student who chose a government aided college in the city.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                             June 5, 2008 Thursday

School Visits Add Up

BYLINE: Nicola Juncar

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 361 words


SCHOOLCHILDREN across the North East have been learning there is more to maths
than number crunching.

A programme of hands-on activities is being staged at the Centre for Life,
Newcastle, throughout June, which aim to make the subject more appealing.

The number of students taking maths at A-level has dropped from around 80,000 a
decade ago to 55,000 now, and even less are choosing to study it at university.

The Chronicle's own mathematical guru, Dr Maths   aka Steve Humble   believes
this is because the subject is not interesting to children.

That's why he's teamed up with the Centre for Life to run the Mathstastic
workshops.

Dr Maths is the former head of mathematics at Newcastle College. He is now one
of nine regional co-ordinators in the country who work for the National Centre
for Excellence in the Teaching of Mathematics.

He works with schools, colleges and universities and one of his aims is to get
people choosing the subject for Higher and Further Education.

He has already held a number of events, including Maths in the Malls at
Gateshead's MetroCentre and Maths in the City, which saw pupils tackling puzzles
on Northumberland Street.

The Mathstastic series is his latest venture and it includes a maths trail and a
circus, aimed at supporting 12 and 13-year-olds.

Dr Maths said: "Maths is everywhere around us.

"We need pupils to realise that maths is relevant in a lot of things we do.

"It is seen as a boring subject, especially as some pupils find it tricky."

Noel Jackson, head of education at the Centre for Life, said: "Mathstastic is a
new and exciting departure.

"We've sourced hands-on activities from as far a field as Cape Town, South
Africa, and Copenhagen, Denmark, and enlisted the help of local Gifted and
Talented maths pupils.

"The end result is a range of activities that will stimulate and engage pupils."

Year 6 pupils from Stephenson Memorial Primary School, Wallsend, North Tyneside,
were among the first to take part in Mathstastic this week.

Pupil Emily Kilpatrick, 11, said: "The whole trip has been a good way to learn
about maths."

For further information on the Mathstastic sessions call the Centre for Life on
(0191) 243 8210.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                             July 9, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CHOOSE AN APPRENTICESHIP

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 317 words


Choosing an Apprenticeship means choosing to kick start your future career as
you will be learning in the workplace. Apprenticeships offer valuable paid work
experience and the chance to study and gain a formal qualication at the same
time; this is the key benet for many young people as you 'earn while you learn'.

Gloucestershire College offers a wide range of apprenticeship programmes within
the Construction and Building Services, Engineering and Motor Vehicle sectors.
The College's employer arm, the Gloucestershire College Business Hub, currently
has over 50 live apprenticeship vacancies open for application advertised online
at www.apprenticeships.org.uk, with positions available in locations across the
county including Cheltenham, Gloucester, Tewkesbury and the Forest of Dean.

Current engineering apprenticeship vacancies include four engineering
apprenticeship positions with Exception PCB Ltd in Tewkesbury, six civil
engineering apprenticeship positions with Britannia Construction in Cheltenham
and two apprentice engineer positions with Arrk Europe Ltd in Gloucester.

Sylvia Bullock, Vice Principal for Employer Engagement said; "The team at
Gloucestershire College has worked hard to raise the prole of apprenticeships in
Gloucestershire, and are delighted to be working with so many businesses across
a broad range of apprenticeships. In 2013, for the rst time, Gloucestershire
College worked with over 1000 apprentices.

"I would actively encourage young people to choose an apprenticeship route as a
rst option. Apprentices have the unique opportunity to earn while they learn;
and to gain invaluable experience alongside kick starting their future careers."

Your future career is important to us, so why not let us help you with that rst
step? To nd out more about apprenticeships at Gloucestershire College, please
visit www.gloscol.ac.uk or call the GC Business Hub on 01452 5634000.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLE


                      Copyright 2014 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 17, 2015 Sunday

Consider course before zeroing in on a college

BYLINE: Divina Pereira

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 421 words


Mumbai: With results round the corner and the admission season about to begin,
students will be busy scurrying to get through to colleges of their choice.
While most have started short-listing their preferences for online application,
there is still time to analyze and then select a college.

Experts say despite constant advice and planning, students tend to be unhappy
with their choice a semester later. One of the main things students need to
consider is the course they are interested in. This should take precedence over
the college itself. Father Terry Quadros, counsellor at the Counselling Centre
at St Xavier's College, Fort, said: "It is important to choose a subject over a
college. Often, there are students who opt for Xavier's just because they want
to be here."

Choosing a reputed college outweighs even the marks obtained. "One must keep in
mind that cut-offs are close to their marks. Several colleges have had similar
cut-offs over the years and most students are aware of how they have performed.
Hence, they should go through the cut-offs of colleges at least in the previous
year before deciding on which colleges to opt for," added Quadros.

Experts also advise choosing colleges closer home. Dinesh Panjwani, principal, R
D National College, Bandra, said, "In a city like Mumbai, this is a very
important point to take into consideration. Colleges should be close to homes.
Distance matters very much. Travelling a long distance is a waste of a lot of
time that could be used to study instead." Panjwani added, "One should choose a
college whose environment is conducive to both studies and extra-curricular
activities and not fall prey to peer pressure. If your friend is going or not
going to the college shouldn't matter-a mistake that many students seem to
make."

Students could also look for colleges with good certificate courses that can add
value to their profile.

"Certificate courses in pure sciences or economics are extremely popular among
students and over-subscribed most of the times. These courses on campus can be
attended during free time so that students can use it constructively and add to
their CVs even before they finish college," said Jyoti Thakur, executive
coordinator, Jai Hind College, Churchgate.

However, these are not the only criteria students look for. Salomi Gavhale, who
just gave her Class X exams said, "College timings are also important. I will
even take into consideration the college crowd and whether or not they have a
good faculty."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    Wilkes Barre Times Leader (Pennsylvania)

                             August 17, 2007 Friday
                                  MAIN EDITION

KING'S AGAIN RANKS HIGH NATIONALLY

BYLINE: SHEENA DELAZIO sdelazio@timesleader.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 470 words


WILKES-BARRE - For the seventh year in a row, King's College has achieved a high
grade in a national ranking of colleges and universities.

The 21st issue of "U.S. News & World Report" has ranked King's 34th out of 574
universities from 10 states ranging from Maryland to Maine, the Best
Universities - Master's category in the Northern United States. Last year,
King's ranked 36th in the same category.

"King's is proud that we continue to be ranked among the top echelon of colleges
and universities in our category, ranking with or ahead of many colleges much
larger in size," said King's president, the Rev. Thomas O'Hara, C.S.C., in a
statement.

The U.S. News & World Report has ranked King's among America's best colleges for
13 straight years, choosing the college because of dedicated faculty, quality
education and low tuition.

"King's current ranking is equally impressive since the college is inherently an
undergraduate college, and had, until 1999, been ranked among the best schools
in that category," O'Hara said.

The report chooses schools based on many factors, from campus life, activities
and sports, to location, cost and academic offerings. According to U.S. News and
World Report, there are two major factors in choosing schools. One relies on
quantitative measure of academic quality, ranked either by the schools mission
or region.

The second factor is decided by gathering information for up to 15 different
areas of academic excellence, and then colleges are ranked among their peers.
Some areas include peer assessment, retention, faculty resources, student
selectivity, financial resources, graduation rate and alumni giving rate.

"While King's is gratified by our improvement in the rankings, the college
considers these subjective studies as external reinforcements to comments we
receive from our most important evaluators: our current and prospective
students, their families and graduates."

In addition to ranking high on the report, in recent years, King's has been
selected for national honors and accreditations by several national and
international associations, such as the American Association of College's and
Universities Greater Expectations Initiative, and has been selected for six
consecutive years by Barron's Best Buys in College Education among the nation's
top colleges.

O'Hara said next week the college will welcome its largest first-year class of
freshmen, which exceeds the previous record by more than 50 students.

"Students and parents continue to praise their educational experience at King's,
and our adherence to the principles of liberal arts education grounded in the
Catholic tradition," O'Hara said.

How area schools ranked

34th - King's College, Wilkes-Barre

57th - Marywood University, Scranton

67th - College Misericordia, Dallas Twp.

70th - Wilkes University, Wilkes-Barre

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Sheena Delazio, a staff writer for The Times Leader, may be reached at
829-7235.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wbt


                        Copyright 2007 The Times Leader
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Sunday Mail (South Australia)

                              July 22, 2012 Sunday
                               1 - State Edition

DIY births on the rise More mothers choosing to have babies at home without help

BYLINE: LAUREN NOVAK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 509  words


PREGNANT women are increasingly choosing to go through birth alone at home
without professional help rather than risk a ``horrible'' experience in a
hospital.

The Australian College of Midwives says hundreds of Australian women are opting
for an unassisted or `freebirth', without even a midwife present, and that the
trend is rising.

A recent University of NSW report, published in the journal Midwifery, found
most women who chose to freebirth wanted to avoid a ``traumatic'' or
``horrible'' hospital experience.

The mothers involved told researchers they feared a hospital birth would mean a
lack of privacy, bright lights, strong smells, loud noises, feel-ing cold,
hospital bugs, strangers at the birth, being interrupted or separated from their
baby or being medi-cally monitored.

The findings come as the latest Pregnancy Outcome in SA report shows more South
Australian mothers are choosing homebirths.

There were 144 home births in SA in 2010 - 138 planned and six unplanned - up
from a total 134 in 2009, including nine unplanned.

There has been heated debate this year over the safety of home birthing, with
midwife Lisa Barrett at the centre of a coronial inquest examining her
involvement in three fatal homebirths.

Australian College of Midwives spokeswoman Associate Professor Hannah Dahlen,
who co-authored the report on freebirthing, said ``there are quite big pockets
of free birth around Australia and it's rising''.

``The biggest reason is a previous traumatic birth,'' she said. ``Women are so
traumatised that they don't want to have anything to do with a health
professional, and some even consider midwives in that trauma.''

Assoc Prof Dahlen said her research showed women who chose freebirth or risky
homebirths were ``incredibly informed'', with 70 per cent of those she
interviewed holding a tertiary qualification.

``We had no shortage of women to interview for this study,'' she said.

Assoc Prof Dahlen's report found women who chose freebirthing felt they were
making a choice that ``provides them with the best and safest birthing option''
by avoiding risks associated with hospitals.

But Australian Medical Association SA president Dr Peter Sharley warned
freebirthing was a ``very dangerous'' choice for both mother and child, and had
already resulted in the death of a newborn. Sydney mother Janet Fraser chose to
deliver daughter Roisin unassisted at home in March 2009 but the baby had to be
rushed to hospital because she was not breathing and died within hours of her
birth. A coroner this year found she most likely died from oxygen deprivation
after the umbilical cord wrapped around her neck.

``I find this sort of activity to be negligent to the baby,'' Dr Sharley said,
adding news that the trend was increasing was ``quite concerning''.

``If these people have had previous bad experiences (birthing) then we need to
do more to educate them so they're well informed about the risks, and offer them
assistance both to improve their experience and to provide a safe environment
(in which) to have a baby.''

novakl@sundaymail.com.au

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUM


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                           February 22, 2007 Thursday

Human rights in focus

SECTION: GTA; Pg. R08

LENGTH: 300 words


They're lawyers-in-training with a cause. Not only did they recently spend a
summer working with human rights organizations around the globe, they also
documented their work and travel in pictures.

And now they're sharing their photographs in "Human Rights in Focus" - a
showcase of the people and places they saw while working in developing countries
as part of the human rights program at the University of Toronto's law faculty.

Each summer, the program sends about 25 law students overseas to work with
international human rights organizations. Since 1988, almost 150 law students
have travelled to more than 30 countries.

The exhibit runs to March 22 at the University of Toronto Art Centre at 15
King's College Circle. Next Wednesday features a "meet the photographers"
reception and silent auction from 7-9 p.m., with proceeds to the human rights
program.

French-language programs receive funding boost

York University's Glendon College will receive $740,000 from the provincial
government as part of a $7.5 million package aimed at bolstering French-language
post-secondary programs across the province.

The money, announced this week by Colleges and Universities Minister Chris
Bentley, is to create new courses and promote francophone culture at bilingual
colleges and universities.

At Glendon, officials plan to focus on cultural events and expanding
French-language programming at the school.

Star has online Q&A

on choosing a U

Nervous about choosing a university? Awaiting acceptance letters?

How will you know which one to choose?

The Toronto Star is hosting an online Q&A at thestar.blogs.com/education to
provide help. Sharron and Michael McIntyre, professors and authors of the
University Matters book and website (www.universitymatters.ca), are available to
help out students and their parents.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Timothy Riddell took this photo, called Watchful, part of the "Human
Rights in Focus" show.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2007 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.

                              258 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                            March 16, 2016 Wednesday
                               Townsville Edition

Harder line on sick kids

BYLINE: SUE DUNLEVY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 411  words


CHILDREN with ear infections will be refused antibiotics and parents told they
shouldn't give pain relievers for fever under a crackdown on unnecessary medical
treatment.

Everything you thought you knew about treating common ailments is being turned
on its head after doctors reviewed the medical evidence for 61 of the most
commonly sought medical treatments.

Fourteen prestigious medical colleges have nominated areas of waste and
inappropriate treatment as part of the NPS Choosing Wisely campaign to rein in
health costs and improve medical practice.

In a decision that could be excruciating for mothers whose children are
screaming with pain from an ear infection, they recommend against routine use of
antibiotics for ear pain in kids aged 2-12.

"Regardless of whether one or both eardrums are red or bulging, antibiotics do
not reduce pain for at least 24 hours," the Royal Australian College of General
Practitioners says.

Instead, parents should use paracetamol or ibuprofen to control the pain.
Antibiotics should only be given if the child had a fever, was vomiting or
lethargic, said the president of the Royal Australian College General
Practitioners Dr Frank Jones.

Parents are also likely to baulk at an Australian College of Nursing call to not
give ill kids paracetamol or ibuprofen to reduce temperatures.

"The benefits of fever in slowing the growth and replication of bacteria and
viruses are well documented," it said.

Medicine should only be used to reduce fever if the child was uncomfortable or
distressed, the college said.

The Choosing Wisely campaign also calls for the practice of prescribing
antibiotics to infants with a fever to stop because it was not only "low value"
but could "be dangerous, in delaying presentation to hospital by inappropriately
reassuring patients".

One in 14 kids have side effects from antibiotics and their overuse is fuelling
the rise of antibiotic-resistant infections.

Medical colleges also want to put a stop to X-rays of most foot and ankle
injuries.

TOUGH MEDICINE TESTS, scans and medicines doctors say you don't need: >
Antibiotics for ear infections > Paracetamol or aspirin to control fever >
X-rays of ankle or foot trauma > Chest X-rays for uncomplicated bronchitis >
Routine colonoscopies > Antibiotics for upper respiratory tract infections >
Long-term use of anti-inflammatories in the elderly > X-rays for lower back pain
> Repeated blood tests for people with fatigue> CAT scans to check for
appendicitis

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Townsville Bulletin


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The New Age (South Africa)

                           January 4, 2017 Wednesday

\c\SLead Pg 2

BYLINE: LILLIAN SELAPISA

LENGTH: 458 words


LILLIAN SELAPISA

CHOOSING a career path after matric can be a daunting and frustrating task.

University of South Africa academic Dr Ramodungoane Tabane said choosing a
career was an interesting aspect of anyone's life and matriculants needed to put
much thought in deciding their next move after matric as the decision often
shapes the rest of their professional lives.

"The anxiety in choosing a career path comes from thinking that they are not
well prepared or that they may not have met the requirements for university
admission. Sometimes, you are pressured because your friends seem to know what
they are doing," Tabane said.

He said it helped to have "realistic goals" and look at how you have been
performing in school in making a decision. Tabane said while matric results were
a good indication of what your strong points were, this should be coupled with
interest and personality.

"Know your personality and your character and where your interests lie. Some
people can do well and get A's but not be interested in conventional careers,"
he said. "Also, do not allow your parents to live their dreams through you.
Don't choose a career because of your parents or your friends. Do not choose a
career because of money."

While most pupils would want to go to university after high school, Tabane said
parents and the Department of Basic Education needed to inculcate the idea that
it was not the only option available to matriculants. They needed to make their
children understand at a young age that there were alternatives to a university
education available through technical and vocational education and training
(TVET) colleges.

"We need to teach our children that universities are not the be all and end all.
We are not investing enough in other avenues," Tabane said.

The Department of Higher Education and Training says  TVET is the foundation of
any economy and in a developing country such as SA, technical vocational
training was even more important.

There are more than 264 campuses across the country, with more under
construction.

Unlike most other education institutions, TVET colleges have multiple intakes of
new students throughout the year for particular courses.

Tabane said those who did not make it should know it was not the end of the
world. "Life is all about attempts. You attempt the first time if you fail you
try again.

"If your results do not come out as expected there are a few options available,"
he said. "You can either go for a re-mark, if you are confident, or write a
supplementary or redo grade 12 entirely. It is not the end of the world."

The 2016 national senior certificate results are expected to be released today
and results available from 6am tomorrow.

snn4@thenewage.co.za

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 TNA Media (Pty.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                            October 23, 2016 Sunday

BU trifurcation: Lecturers to get option to choose varsity

LENGTH: 292  words

DATELINE: BENGALURU


BENGALURU, Oct. 23 -- Lecturers juggling between two campuses of Bangalore
University - Jnana Bharathi and Central College - may soon get some relief as
they will be given the option of choosing which university they want to be a
part of once the trifurcation is officially implemented.


 Sources in the Higher Education Department said the option of whether lecturers
want to be a part of Bangalore University, Bangalore Central University or
Bangalore North University will be open only to permanent faculty members and
not to the guest faculty.
 "While we are open to giving faculty members the option of choosing which of
the three universities they want to work under, it will also depend if the
departments they are attached to exist in the new universities," an Higher
Education Department official said.
 However, an official of Bangalore University said there was a need for the
State government to think through the move carefully.
 "We have a shortage of faculty members and not all of our sanctioned posts are
filled. If we give faculty members the option of which university they want to
be a part of, students studying in the parent university may suffer," the
official said.
 M. Ramachandra Gowda, president of the Federation of University College
Teachers' Associations Karnataka, said it was inevitable for the State
government to offer this choice as five departments - Chemistry, Mathematics,
Commerce, Management, and Communication - are functioning on both the Jnana
Bharathi and Central College campuses.
 "In the past, too, when universities in Karanataka have been spilt, faculty
members were given a choice. If there is a shortage of teaching staff,
individual universities must make arrangements to recruit new faculty members,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            June 21, 2006 Wednesday

BYU is different

SECTION: PUBLIC FORUM; Opinion

LENGTH: 253 words


If you were a college department chair, and one of the department's adjunct
professors violated the policies of the university, what decision would you make
regarding the renewal of the adjunct's semester-to-semester contract?

In light of the policies of Brigham Young University, Daniel Graham did what he
had to do in choosing not to renew Jeffrey Nielsen's contract for the next
semester.

If you have qualms with what was done, it should be with the policies of BYU,
not Graham. Arguments against Graham aside, I find great fault in attacking BYU
for supporting its educational mission.

Yet this is a university, many would say, and to claim that status it must live
up to a standard of academic freedom and open dialogue. I couldn't agree more.

The standards they measure by, however, are obviously different from other
universities, which is evident in their choosing to maintain their course
despite censure from the American Association of University Professors.

It is because of the difference in standards that BYU exists. No one forces
anyone to attend BYU, just as no one forced Jeffrey Nielsen to accept a position
there. It is not a state university, but a private institution. As such, it
makes its own policies. If you disagree with them, or with the doctrines of the
church that foots their bill, don't go there, don't teach there and don't be
surprised when a professor who disagrees with those policies risks his
employment.

If you publicly opposed your employer, how long would you have a job?

Seth Bryant

Sandy

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Northern District Times (Australia)

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday
                             1 - Main Book Edition

Boys follow in dads' footsteps - CATHOLIC SCHOOLS WEEK

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 229  words


SIGNIFICANT numbers of old boy's sons among the Year 7 to Year 12 student cohort
must mean Ryde's Holy Cross College is a popular education choice for fathers
who graduated in previous eras.

New principal Adam Taylor said: ``There is a wealth of quality schools in this
part of Sydney. It is a credit to the school that families in the Ryde area are
choosing to send their sons to Holy Cross.''

Of the current year seven students Bailey Sironen, Regan Walsh, Jack Wheelhouse,
Jye Jarvis, Ricky Tyrrell, Kurt McIntosh, Connor McDermott, Austin Ferreira and
Brad Zammitt follow in their father's footsteps.

``The reasons given by many old-boys for choosing Holy Cross include the
college's high academic expectations, first-class facilities and vibrant
co-curricula life,'' Mr Taylor said.

``Three football ovals, a cricket ground, tennis courts and a brand new $5
million state-of-the-art Patrician Technology Centre provide the resources
necessary for academic and sporting achievement.''

He said that among the college's achievements last year were:

* Three HSC students received scholarships to university courses;

* Captain Xavier Marcellino was awarded the prestigious PriceWaterhouseCoopers
Accounting Scholarship, allowing him to attend a university of his choice.

* Seven Metropolitan Catholic Schools championships were secured in rugby
league, soccer, tennis and touch football.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NDG


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            August 4, 2011 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Experiences necessary;
Tertiary Education and open days

BYLINE: Sue White

SECTION: SUPPLEMENT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 541 words


Extra-curricular activities are a key factor when deciding where to study,
writes Sue White. If students were robots, choosing a degree might come down to
simply analysing a course curriculum, checking the rating of professors and
number crunching the two to determine which campus comes out on top. Nice
concept but given that we're living, breathing, emotional beings, the reality of
choosing a university comes down to more than formulas. For many, what happens
outside the classroom is as important as the course content.

The campus social scene, the university's reputation and opportunities for
hands-on experience can be an equally important part of the mix when you're
choosing a place to study. It's a reality that universities understand well.
"When a student decides on a uni, the degree is important but it's the whole
package [that informs their final decision]," says the manager of undergraduate
student recruitment at the University of Sydney, Kaveh Ghezel. Most universities
have about 200 clubs and societies, for everything from the social to the
cerebral. Like the University of Sydney, they will be keen to showcase their
strengths. "We offer a vibrant and active student life," Ghezel says. "Since
2006, we've been voted the best student experience in Australia by the National
Union of Students - we're very proud of that. "[But also] you're learning from
global leaders here - that differentiates us. The guy in the classroom is doing
research, too, and students can participate in that." Ghezel says the best way
to decide is to get on campus. "It's one of the most important things," he says.
"Go to an open day; you get a feel of the place, talk to current students and
look around and explore." Of course, some are looking for prestige. "Sydney
University is known as a prestigious university because we have runs on the
board," Ghezel says. "We were Australia's first university and that's important
for a lot of students. The network and connections you get here is one of the
best in the country. Our alumni include High Court judges and prime ministers."
Often, however, prestige is trumped by the practical. For third-year University
of Technology, Sydney student Michelle Rumery, the potential for hands-on
experience made her choose UTS over Sydney for her bachelor's degree in
communication (journalism). "It came down to more than the course information,"
she says. "At an open day, everyone said UTS was very hands-on and that there
were lots of work-experience opportunities, which I've absolutely found to be
the case." The decision meant she has had the opportunity to work at 2SER, a
radio station with links to UTS and Macquarie University. After trying her hand
at various positions at 2SER, including time on air, Rumery loves her role
producing a breakfast program on Wednesdays. "There's no better way to learn
than by doing it," she says. "I've always been a hands-on person." While the
skills learnt in the classroom are important, it's her decision to make the most
of the link with 2SER that means Rumery will graduate with a clear plan for her
future media career. "I'd been leaning towards TV but through production I've
really found my feet," she says. "I really feel this is what I want to do."

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hands on ... Michelle Rumery, radio producer and communications
student was attracted to the practical component of the UTS degree. Photo:
Steven Siewert

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                             August 25, 2017 Friday

Sichuan universities make adapting to college life easier

LENGTH: 225  words


With the fall semester about to begin, universities in Sichuan province have
come up with innovative ways of welcoming freshmen that suit their needs and
will help them adapt to college life.

With the fall semester about to begin, universities in Sichuan province have
come up with innovative ways of welcoming freshmen to suit their needs and help
them adapt to college life.

The new methods include posting information guides on social networks like Weibo
and WeChat, gathering freshmen's personal details using smartphone apps and
allowing them to select a dormitory online.

Apps have gradually become a common and effective way for universities in
Sichuan to simplify admission procedures. Sichuan University's app enables new
students to check their payment status, while teachers at Xihua University
evaluate students' performance on an app to select class monitors.

The new university house-choosing system - which takes about 15 seconds - was
launched on Tuesday at Chengdu University, according to the school's student
affairs department.

Besides the orientation and location of the dormitory rooms, lengthened beds for
students over 1.9 meters have been specifically requested via the online house-
choosing system at University of Electronic Science and Technology of China
since it was first used in early 2015.

Li Jiayue contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2017 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily - Africa Weekly

                                August 25, 2017

Sichuan universities make adapting to college life easier

LENGTH: 225  words


With the fall semester about to begin, universities in Sichuan province have
come up with innovative ways of welcoming freshmen that suit their needs and
will help them adapt to college life.

With the fall semester about to begin, universities in Sichuan province have
come up with innovative ways of welcoming freshmen to suit their needs and help
them adapt to college life.

The new methods include posting information guides on social networks like Weibo
and WeChat, gathering freshmen's personal details using smartphone apps and
allowing them to select a dormitory online.

Apps have gradually become a common and effective way for universities in
Sichuan to simplify admission procedures. Sichuan University's app enables new
students to check their payment status, while teachers at Xihua University
evaluate students' performance on an app to select class monitors.

The new university house-choosing system - which takes about 15 seconds - was
launched on Tuesday at Chengdu University, according to the school's student
affairs department.

Besides the orientation and location of the dormitory rooms, lengthened beds for
students over 1.9 meters have been specifically requested via the online house-
choosing system at University of Electronic Science and Technology of China
since it was first used in early 2015.

Li Jiayue contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1497


                    Copyright 2017 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                           December 6, 2007 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITION

Student leader to be voice on issues

BYLINE: By Tom Corwin< Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 526 words


Matthew Rudy is only a second-year medical student at the Medical College of
Georgia, but he will soon have quite a following - about 70,000 strong.

Mr. Rudy, 23, is the national chairman-elect of the Organization of Student
Representatives, which represents all 70,000 medical students before the
Association of American Medical Colleges. He will assume the position in
November during the annual meeting.

"It helps (the AAMC) stay abreast of what is occurring in the medical schools
from the medical student perspective," Ally Anderson, the manager of student and
community service programs, said of the student group. "What they do is they
provide more breadth of knowledge concerning those issues."

Mr. Rudy, an Augusta native, said he and another MCG student took their concerns
to a national meeting last month and found they were on familiar ground with
other students.

"Those were the same issues which people nationally were concerned about,
whether that's increasing the number of physicians, increasing the number of
medical school spots and opportunities," he said. "Tuition was one and help with
people choosing what they want to practice."

That's one reason why he wants to increase interaction with another AAMC group,
the Organization of Resident Repre-sentatives.

"Those are leaders that are in the next step of their education from where we
are," Mr. Rudy said. "Medical school is a tough time to figure out what you want
to do. It's a chance for us to talk to people who are doing the things we might
be potentially interested in, to learn from them both about choosing a specialty
and then about any changes in that specialty."

Medical student debt is another big issue, and fears of not being able to pay
off that burden could be driving future physicians away from choosing needed
primary care positions, he said.

"Even at a state-supported school, the federal government's assistance isn't
enough to take care of students," Mr. Rudy said. "And that's enough of a
deterrent for someone to want to practice something other than primary care
medicine."

Just making students aware of debt repayment options is another goal.

"There's just increasing options," Mr. Rudy said. "Students are so overwhelmed
with studying sometimes, they don't know those exist. And they would love to
practice primary care if they just knew they'd be taken care of."

The chairman position is a three-year commitment, serving as chairman-elect,
chairman and then past-chairman. Mr. Rudy said he will be relying on help from
fellow students, officers and MCG faculty to make it through.

"I'm not foolish enough to think that I can do all of this without help and
advice," he said.

MATTHEW RUDY

AGE: 23

POSITION: Chairman-elect of the Organization of Student Representatives for the
Association of American Medical Colleges, president of Medical College of
Georgia School of Medicine Class of 2010

EDUCATION: In second year at MCG School of Medicine; bachelor of science with
honors in biochemistry, University of Georgia; 2002 graduate of Lakeside High
School

FAMILY: Parents, Greg and Susan Rudy; brother, Mark

Reach Tom Corwin at (706) 823-3213

or tom.corwin@augustachronicle.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 17, 2015 Tuesday

New York: College of Mount Saint Vincent Hosts Impressive Turnout at Event for
Early Action Applicants

LENGTH: 396  words

DATELINE: Albany


College of Mount Saint Vincent, The State of New York has issued the following
News release:

More than 70 high school seniors who applied to the College of Mount Saint
Vincent through its Early Action program turned out last Sunday, February 8, for
the Mount's "Early Action Brunch," a day that enabled them to talk with faculty
and current students, explore programs and opportunities, and get a feel for
what it might be like to be a Mount student.
Daniel Gallagher, the Mount's Vice President for Enrollment, noted that choosing
early action allows students to declare strong interest in one school, while
allowing them time to really consider what may be their most important decision
to date. When the College announced its groundbreaking Tuition Reset and
National Measures of Quality initiatives last fall, he pointed out, what may
have been out of reach before is now more accessible for middle-income families.

At Sunday's event, the excitement was palpable as enthusiastic accepted students
and their families chatted with professors, learned about programs like the
First Year Experience and Oxley Career Education program, and enjoyed a catered
brunch with current students, who encouraged them to ask questions about college
life as a Mount Saint Vincent Dolphin.

According to Mr. Gallagher, the good turnout could be seen as an enthusiastic
response to the College's leadership in making tuition affordable while still
providing an exceptional education. With the tuition reset, he noted, more
families are driven by the spiraling costs of higher education to seek both high
quality and authentic value in choosing where to spend their hard-earned tuition
dollars.

About the College of Mount Saint Vincent
Founded in 1847 by the Sisters of Charity, the College of Mount Saint Vincent
offers nationally recognized liberal arts education and a select array of
professional fields of study on a landmark campus overlooking the Hudson River.
Committed to the education of the whole person, and enriched by the unparalleled
cultural, educational and career opportunities of New York City, the College
equips students with the knowledge, skills and experiences necessary for lives
of achievement, professional accomplishment and leadership in the 21st century.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 17, 2015 Tuesday

New York: College of Mount Saint Vincent Hosts Impressive Turnout at Event for
Early Action Applicants

LENGTH: 396  words

DATELINE: Albany


College of Mount Saint Vincent, The State of New York has issued the following
News release:

More than 70 high school seniors who applied to the College of Mount Saint
Vincent through its Early Action program turned out last Sunday, February 8, for
the Mount's "Early Action Brunch," a day that enabled them to talk with faculty
and current students, explore programs and opportunities, and get a feel for
what it might be like to be a Mount student.
Daniel Gallagher, the Mount's Vice President for Enrollment, noted that choosing
early action allows students to declare strong interest in one school, while
allowing them time to really consider what may be their most important decision
to date. When the College announced its groundbreaking Tuition Reset and
National Measures of Quality initiatives last fall, he pointed out, what may
have been out of reach before is now more accessible for middle-income families.

At Sunday's event, the excitement was palpable as enthusiastic accepted students
and their families chatted with professors, learned about programs like the
First Year Experience and Oxley Career Education program, and enjoyed a catered
brunch with current students, who encouraged them to ask questions about college
life as a Mount Saint Vincent Dolphin.

According to Mr. Gallagher, the good turnout could be seen as an enthusiastic
response to the College's leadership in making tuition affordable while still
providing an exceptional education. With the tuition reset, he noted, more
families are driven by the spiraling costs of higher education to seek both high
quality and authentic value in choosing where to spend their hard-earned tuition
dollars.

About the College of Mount Saint Vincent
Founded in 1847 by the Sisters of Charity, the College of Mount Saint Vincent
offers nationally recognized liberal arts education and a select array of
professional fields of study on a landmark campus overlooking the Hudson River.
Committed to the education of the whole person, and enriched by the unparalleled
cultural, educational and career opportunities of New York City, the College
equips students with the knowledge, skills and experiences necessary for lives
of achievement, professional accomplishment and leadership in the 21st century.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         Midhurst and Petworth Observer

                                October 24, 2009

Midhurst Rother College student Shannon has a recipe for success

LENGTH: 405 words



HIGHLIGHT: Midhurst Rother College student Shannon Hook cooked up a recipe for
success in the first round of the Rotary Young Chef of the Year competition.


Battling against five other  students, Shannon's chicken with apples and
shallots titivated the judges' tastebuds and won her  first prize, a place in
the next round and a chance to go through to the UK final.

One of the judges, Angel Hotel manager Maarten Hoffmann,  was so impressed with
her  culinary ability that he offered her the chance of work experience at the
hotel.

Food technology teacher Marion Short has 16 students taking a GCSE course at the
Midhurst Rother College and believes this challenge gives them a good start.

The seven boys and nine girls were given the task of choosing  a menu, buying
the ingredients  for a maximum of £7, preparing  the meal and serving two
covers. Heats were run to decide on the  six going through to this first  round
of Rotary Young Chef.

Scott Atkinson, curriculum leader for art, design and  technology at the
college, joined Marion Short to watch the students during their tension-filled
one-and-a-half-hour challenge.

Judges Jenny Nightingale,  food technologist, and Maarten Hoffmann said they
were impressed with the efficient way the meals were cooked and served and had a
difficult task choosing a winner.

Following Shannon's chicken with dessert of strawberry  shortcake was
second-placed Jemma Frankland with a chicken and sweetcorn chowder with chorizo
sausages and potato  which judges said was 'extremely well-flavoured'. She
followed this with chocolate apple betty.

In third place, Jonathon Bristow served stuffed free-range chicken breast with a
paprika and sun-blessed tomato and cream sauce  followed by strawberry
shortbread stacks with mascarpone and lemon.

Andrew Mitchell, president of the Rotary Club of Midhurst and Petworth,
presented certificates  to Charles Aitken, Jo Buckle, Jonathon Bristow, Shannon
Hook, Jemma Frankland and Jasmine Robey and thanked them for  putting so much
effort into their presentations.

Thanks also went to the staff  for their hard work preparing the pupils, to the
parents for their encouragement and to Rotarian Roger Poat for organising this
year's event.

The Rotary Club is providing a chef's outfit for Shannon to wear in the next
round when she competes against other schools in this  area, with one lucky
person going forward to the UK final.

What do you think? Send a letter to news@chiobserver.co.uk or leave a comment
below.

To tell us where in the world you are reading this story click here to add
yourself to our readers' map.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MAP


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                 June 22, 2016

He chooses passion over career

BYLINE: Shruti Choudhary

LENGTH: 304  words


INDORE: Choosing career over passion is routine one, but choosing passion over
career needs real guts. And Dhruv Bhan, 25, of Indore sure does have guts.
Dhruv, who is a singer, composer, lyricist and good with different instruments,
has a very interesting musical journey. He has seen a lot of ups and downs so
far, but his optimistic approach always leads him in the right direction.



Coming from a commerce background, his mind was working for finance; but his
heart was always into music. After graduating in commerce from a prestigious
college in India, he went to Holland to commence his higher education in
finance. Coming close to a prospect of a good job, he realized that his purpose
of living was only music and so he forgot about the dollars that he could have
earned.

"After I came back to Indore, there was so much to build for my music and so I
took different initiatives. I got a small setup and started creating and
producing music at home, along with learning the technical details of my work",
says Dhruv.

He received a lot of negative feedback from different people, but amazingly,
this motivated him even more. To avoid judgmental comments, he started creating
his own songs.

His devotion and efforts and his mother's support made his dream of being a part
of Berklee College of Music, in Boston, USA, come true.

It is the largest independent college of contemporary music in the world.

He will be starting a new chapter when he joins the college in January 2017.
Dhruv, who tried his hands on keyboard and guitar and went on to explore sarod,
says, "One of my aims after reaching Berklee would be showcasing the melody and
dignity of sarod, which is considered to be one of the toughest Indian
instruments and my idea of the fusion of Indian music with western music would
fulfill another purpose of my life".

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2016 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                 June 21, 2016

He chooses passion over his career

BYLINE: Shruti Choudhary

LENGTH: 303  words


INDORE: Choosing career over passion is routine one, but choosing passion over
career needs real guts. And Dhruv Bhan, 25, of Indore sure does have guts.

Dhruv, who is a singer, composer, lyricist and good with different instruments,
has a very interesting musical journey. He has seen a lot of ups and downs so
far, but his optimistic approach always leads him in the right direction.



Coming from a commerce background, his mind was working for finance; but his
heart was always into music. After graduating in commerce from a prestigious
college in India, he went to Holland to commence his higher education in
finance. Coming close to a prospect of a good job, he realized that his purpose
of living was only music and so he forgot about the dollars that he could have
earned.

"After I came back to Indore, there was so much to build for my music and so I
took different initiatives. I got a small setup and started creating and
producing music at home, along with learning the technical details of my work",
says Dhruv.

He received a lot of negative feedback from different people, but amazingly,
this motivated him even more. To avoid judgmental comments, he started creating
his own songs.

His devotion and efforts and his mother's support made his dream of being a part
of Berklee College of Music, in Boston, USA, come true.

It is the largest independent college of contemporary music in the world.

He will be starting a new chapter when he joins the college in January 2017.
Dhruv, who tried his hands on keyboard and guitar and went on to explore sarod,
says, "One of my aims after reaching Berklee would be showcasing the melody and
dignity of sarod, which is considered to be one of the toughest Indian
instruments and my idea of the fusion of Indian music with western music would
fulfill another purpose of my life".

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2016 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            November 17, 2014 Monday

More parents choosing to opt out of public school testing

BYLINE: Robert Nott, The Santa Fe New Mexican

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 736 words


Nov. 17--Mika Newey of Hobbs has had her children "opt out" of public school
testing since last year. Cynthia Allen of Santa Fe has done the same thing. The
two moms are among a growing number of parents nationwide who are trying to
decrease stress for their kids by having them take fewer tests.

Kris Nielsen, parent, educator and founder of NM-Refuse The Test
(www.nmoptout.org) said advocates are working to gain more parental support for
this movement. Parents who want to participate locally can download a test
refusal form from his website and give it to their child's teacher or principal.

But Nielsen does not recommend that students refuse to take tests at the high
school level, because it could impact their graduation requirements and prevent
them from earning a diploma, he said.

Monty Neill, executive director of Boston-based FairTest, a nonprofit advocacy
group working to ensure that assessment of students is both fair and
educationally sound, said during a phone interview that most "opt-out" movements
are centered on children in the K-8 grades. He said that's not an issue when it
comes to college admission requirements: "No one thinks that grade-school
testing impacts your college admission prospects."

Dianne Anderson, director of communication for The University of New Mexico,
echoed that thought and went a step further, noting that the college "focuses
primarily on the grade-point average and the ACT and SAT scores. ... Opting out
of standard testing in high school doesn't affect admission to UNM in any way."

While some states give parents explicit permission to sign their children out of
tests -- California, for instance -- others have equally clear mandates that do
not allow students to skip testing, Neill said. Most have no specific guidelines
at all, he said.

New Mexico's law on the issue is unclear -- a point both sides concede. "There
is no legal statute about it," Nielsen said. "The only law in place is that
schools have to administer tests, but it does not say that parents can or cannot
opt out."

Leighann Lenti, deputy secretary for policy and programs at the state Public
Education Department, said New Mexico statutes make it clear which schools and
grade levels must participate in Standards Based Assessments. "The law does not
go on to state, 'Here is how you opt out,' " she said. "But on the flip side, it
doesn't say, 'If you don't participate, this is what will happen to you.' "

She pointed out that the state's guidelines for the A-F school grading system
include a minimum testing participation threshold of 95 percent -- and failure
to meet that rate can impact a school's grade. For instance, three of Santa Fe's
schools -- E.J. Martinez Elementary School, Capital High School and Santa Fe
High School -- received D's this year, primarily because they had testing
participation levels of 92.4 percent to 94.6 percent. Statewide, Lenti said, 10
schools did not meet the participation threshold.

Neill said some school districts are putting pressure on parents to stop them
from opting out, but neither Newey nor Allen received any pushback from their
children's educators or districts. Both said some teachers supported their
actions.

Newey, a teacher, though not with Santa Fe Public Schools, said she gathered
children at her home who were not taking tests for some home-schooling on
testing days.

Allen said her child read a book in class during testing. "He's not being taught
during this time, which is unfortunate, but I much prefer he read a book than be
stressed out by a test," she said.

Neither woman is against in-class quizzes and tests to assess how students are
progressing.

A number of recent national surveys and reports note that students spend
somewhere between 15 and 20 hours testing per year, though students at some
schools have spent up to 50 hours taking tests. A recent report from Santa Fe
Public Schools indicates Santa Fe students take between six and 15.5 hours of
standardized tests every year, adding up to no more than 1.8 percent of
instructional time over the course of that year.

Nielsen, Allen and Newey say parents considering this route should let their
teachers and principals know early in the year.

Contact Robert Nott at 986-3021 or rnott@sfnewmexican.com

___ (c)2014 The Santa Fe New Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) Visit The Santa Fe New
Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) at www.santafenewmexican.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20141117-SF-More-parents-choosing
-to-opt-out-of-public-school-testing-1117-20141117

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SF


                    Copyright 2014 The Santa Fe New Mexican

                              273 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            January 23, 2017 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Choosing a school is one of the hardest things you can do

BYLINE: ABBIE WIGHTWICK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 844 words


IT's that time of year when parents will have chosen, or be choosing, primary,
secondary and school nursery places for their children.

Those who are further down the line will have watched, and perhaps helped, their
teenagers pick universities and colleges for higher education through Ucas.

Choosing somewhere to study is one of the hardest but most important things
anyone, or any parent, will do.

How do you know if the places you are looking at are right for you and your
child and how much attention should be paid to the myriad statistics out there?
A report out last week said education policymakers in Wales must stop obsessing
over performance indicators and school colour coding performance tables should
be ended.

It said teachers and schools are overloaded with statistics from our own
inspection body Estyn to the international Pisa tests and all the numbers and
figures collected in between that aim to measure performance.

The report "After Pisa: A way forward for education in Wales?" comes after
Wales' schools system was ranked the worst in the UK in the international Pisa
tests published in December.

But, as parents, we are bound to look at the data. It is there. It is easily
available and it does tell part, if not all, of the education story.

Who, after all, would want their children to go to a school, college or
university with poor exam results if they had a choice? As parents in Wales we
have three options on schools (more if you can afford to go private) - the local
school, Welsh-medium, or church school.

One of the first things we may do when choosing is ask friends their experiences
and scour inspection reports and data online.

Both may only tell part of the truth and every child and school is different -
but what else are we to do? Ask a child or parent their opinion about any school
and you are likely to get six different views for every six people you ask.

What suits one person may not suit another and peer groups as well as individual
teachers, head teachers and friends have a vast impact on anyone's performance
and experience in the classroom.

Data showing exam results are relatively low may not mean your, or anyone
else's, child will necessarily do badly. Equally shining results scores will not
turn every pupil into an A* student. Yet these statistics are an indicator and
are hugely compelling for families, especially when starting the school journey
when your last experience of the classroom and exams was years ago.

Visiting a school gives a wider perspective than data alone. You can usually get
a feel for a place from walking through the door and feeling the general
atmosphere. Talking to pupils, students, teachers and lecturers at open days is
a very good way of getting an impression about a school, college or university.

Visiting primary and high schools for my children many years ago I was shocked
at one high school, which ranked very highly, to hear a French teacher tell
another French teacher that she was tired and wished she was somewhere else.

It wasn't so much that the sentiment wasn't the most professional, given that
she was in a classroom with parents milling around, but more that she assumed
(wrongly) none would understand because she was speaking in French.

It wasn't a school I had been considering - I was accompanying a friend - but I
never quite got rid of the feeling that I didn't like it. Again, as with the
data and statistics that only tell one story, it was unfair to judge the entire
school on that one teacher's comment and attitude.

Last November hundreds of former pupils and colleagues paid glowing tributes to
a popular teacher from Pengam who had died.

Cyril Thomas, former assistant head teacher of Lewis Boys School in Pengam, was
described as "a legend and an inspiration" who never gave up on any pupil in
hundreds of comments posted to the school's Facebook site.

Four-hundred people attended the funeral of Mr Thomas, who trained as a teacher
after leaving the mines. He worked at Lewis Boys in the 1980s and 1990s and was
remembered fondly decades on as someone who had a positive impact on those he
taught and worked with.

One former pupil wrote on Facebook: "I wouldn't be the person I am today without
you sir. An absolute legend who gave everyone a fair crack of the whip, even the
boys constantly flirting with trouble like myself."

It is teachers like these, and schools which nurture them, that are impossible
to find in black and white in any of the data. They are faceless in those
numbers and figures but it is these type of teachers who make a difference to
education.

You may hear echoes of them in results which are A*s or Ds. There are pupils who
are not A* candidates who go on to be successful and A* candidates who do not.

We imagine, staring into the statistics, that we are looking into a crystal ball
that will accurately predict future results for our children.

Sadly no-one, not even number crunchers, can do that.

Data is an indicator. Data has a place and should be considered but it is not
everything when chooosing an education, or anything else in life.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Visiting a school gives a wider perspective than data alone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2017 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 31, 2016 Tuesday

Mission Admission: Experts tell students to keep up with the times

SECTION: HYDERABAD

LENGTH: 338 words


HYDERABAD: TOI's Mission Admission seminar drew a huge crowd on Sunday, with
more than 200 students and their parents thronging to seek advice from experts
on higher education opportunities. Educationalist Chukka Ramaiah spoke at length
about preparing for IIT and its advantages. "Preparation for IIT and state-level
competitive exams are different.

Questions in IIT tests have more than one concept. But in state-level exams,
questions are based on only one concept. Therefore, a majority of students find
state-level exams such as Eamcet easier than IIT-JEE," he said. Telangana has
the highest number of IIT aspirants in the country.To those who are looking to
find a seat in any of the private engineering colleges in the state, registrar
of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU), N Yadaiah, gave a
three-pronged strategy to choose the right college. "There are three parameters
for choosing the right college - accreditation, facilities and placements. One
must assess all these before seeking admission," he said. Elaborating on the
emerging trends in engineering, Anil Kumar, director for external relations,
Bennett University, spoke of the importance of keeping up with the changing
technology and computing practices. "Technology keeps changing. Therefore,
students should be very careful in choosing their career. For example, I
purchased a pager for Rs 21,000 two decades ago. Today, the device has no
relevance," said Kumar. Echoing similar views, director of CBIT, Chenakeshava
Rao, spoke on how studying nano-technology and biotechnology may widen career
prospects for students abroad. "Even today, there is very little awareness among
students about these two fields. Though there are very few jobs in
nano-technology and bio-technology in India, the scope is very high abroad,"
said Rao. Meanwhile, providing students a different career option, Ajita Reddy,
chairperson of Hamstech, a fashion designing institute spoke on prospects in
fashion and interior designing.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             May 29, 2014 Thursday

Considerations for Selecting a College Major

LENGTH: 1252  words

DATELINE: Hialeah


Florida National University has issued the following news release:

Just when you thought you had made it through all of the tough school-related
decisions, life throws another curveball at you: picking a college major.
Deciding on a major is a difficult process for young adults that can take
months, or even years to accomplish. The New York Times writes, "What's your
major? It's the defining question for college students -- and the cliché that's
launched a thousand friendships and romances. It's also a question that has
become harder for students to answer" (Simon). Understanding that students
everywhere are having difficulty claiming a major should bring solace to those
who remain undecided.

Surprise Yourself

Undecided students should begin with taking classes in subjects that they are
already excited about. However, they should also be open to exploring new
passions through attending classes that they never imagined taking! You might
not know about your love for analyzing the way the human brain works if you have
never studied it before. Go ahead -- embrace that psychology course!

The Easy Way Out

If something is easy for you, it probably means that it comes naturally. Being
talented in a particular subject does not necessarily mean that you want to
spend the rest of your life engulfed in it. While talent can play a part in your
interests and projected career path, it should never solely determine a major or
career choice.

Find Your Passions

When you are declaring a major, you need to consider the long-term implications
of this choice. Rather than immediately declaring a major in that subject that
comes easy, try something that you are passionate about, instead! U.S. News
states, "After students have had time as high school seniors and college
underclassmen to explore various fields of study, it's likely that they've found
one that greatly appeals to them. Follow that path, experts say, even if you're
unsure about where it might lead, and what starting salary it might yield. Those
factors won't matter in the long run, advisers say" (Burnsed). Of course,
students should direct themselves toward what appeals to them.

Determine Your Goals

Most students want to enter the job market after graduation (Hello, student
loans), so picking a major regardless of what salary or career options it may
provide can be intimidating. Some experts do not believe it is in a student's
best interest to pick a major yielding an unclear career path. Forbes argues
that "you must begin with a vision; a place you want to be four, ten, twenty
years down the road, and a service you want to provide to the business community
and to society, but make sure that there will be a sustained demand for these
services. Then, you must think of the educational degree that will provide you
the skills for this career; and the competition, the other people that pursue
the same degree at the same time as you" (Mourdoukoutas). This quote seems to
argue that the first step toward choosing a degree is to determine where you see
yourself, and whether or not this goal is practical and achievable in the long
run. Declaring a major should come after this discovery, serving as a portal to
this goal.

Make it Count

The key is to find a balance. Pinpoint your goals, but also make sure that you
enjoy what you will be doing. According to NBC News, "College students whose
majors don't reflect their interests are less likely to graduate on time and
more likely to drop out, said Steve Kappler, ACT assistant vice president and
head of postsecondary strategy" (Weston). This article goes on to reveal,
"Blindly pursuing a degree solely for financial reasons can backfire if a
student washes out because of lack of ability or switches majors, or schools,
because of a lack of interest" (Weston). Never pick a career or major because it
will lead to a higher paycheck. Do your best to get in touch with your inmost
life goals and desires that you can pursue a career within.

Take Your Time

Let relief wash over your sophomore soul as you realize that choosing your
college major is not the equivalent of marrying that major. There are no
contracts or messy divorces. It is OK if you wait until junior year to declare
your major! Understand, however, that delays and mistakes can be costly! Each
semester that a student goes undecided is another semester they are paying for,
which may not ultimately benefit their degree. NBC News goes on to inform,
"Picking the wrong major can be an expensive mistake" (Weston). Sure, change
your major in your senior year if you feel strongly about it. Just know that you
will be paying for it in years of your life and paychecks from your pocket.

Make Use of Your Advisors!

Their job title is self-explanatory. Advisors are there to advise students as
they pursue their degree! When students have concerns and difficulty zeroing in
on a major, or they want to know the requirements to gain a particular degree,
they should set up a meeting with an advisor in that department. If a student is
torn between studying criminal justice and nursing, they should meet with
advisors from each department and go over the expectations and requirements for
that degree, along with the career paths and job outlook for these options. The
Princeton Review claims advisors "know what it takes to tackle certain academic
disciplines. Tell them your strengths and your interests. They'll be able to
highlight courses that might excite you as well as classes that are popular with
other students" (Princeton Review).

Job Placement Center

We offer students and alumni access to our Job Placement Center. Students with
questions regarding career choices should utilize this center while determining
their major! If students want to declare a particular major but fear that they
will not find a job with their degree, touring our Job Placement Center can help
put students at ease, directing them toward career possibilities! Once you pick
your path, FNU's Job Placement Team is committed to assisting our currently
enrolled students look for and find employment in their chosen fields of study.
We make every effort possible for the graduate to transition from an exceptional
university education to a lifetime career!

If You Are Still Unsure

Try out this quiz created by a professor at the University of Nevada to help
students determine their strengths, weaknesses, and interests!

In All Reality

Picking out your major in college will take some honest self-analysis and a good
amount of time. If you need help or still have questions, be sure to check out
the programs that we offer, and contact a Florida National University (FNU)
advisor today! As you begin this journey, it is crucial to remember that "
choosing a major doesn't limit you to just one career; choosing a career doesn't
limit you to just one major" (Leonard).

Works Cited

Burnsed, Brian. "5 Ways to Pick the Right College Major." U.S. News. U.S. News &
World Report, 19 Sept. 2011. Web. 02 Apr. 2014.

"Choosing a Major | College Major Selection." Choosing a Major | College Major
Selection. The Princeton Review, n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2014.

Mourdoukoutas, Panos. "How To Choose The Right College Major." Forbes. Forbes
Magazine, 14 Jan. 2013. Web. 02 Apr. 2014.

Simon, Cecilia Capuzzi. "Major Decisions." The New York Times. The New York
Times, 03 Nov. 2012. Web. 02 Apr. 2014.

Weston, Liz. "Picking the Wrong College Major Can Be an Expensive Error." NBC
News. NBC News, 27 Nov. 2013. Web. 02 Apr. 2014.

For more information please visit: http://www.fnu.edu

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                            December 4, 2015 Friday

CCC of GCW organizes awareness lecture on Career Opportunities

LENGTH: 226 words

DATELINE: Jammu


Jammu, Dec. 4 -- Career Counseling Cell of GCW, Udhampur organized an awareness
lecture on "Career Opportunities in Business Management". The programme started
with welcome address by Dr. Ashok Kumar, Convener, Career Counseling Cell of the
college. On this occasion, Prof. K.S Koushal Principal of the college was the
chief guest who stressed upon the students to be careful and well awared while
choosing their career in life. He also apprised the students to participate in
such type of awareness programme at large. The lecture was delivered by
Paramjeet Singh Marketing Officer, ICFAI Business School Hydrabad. In his
presentation, he enlightened the students about the right steps required to be
taken for choosing career in Business Management such as complete knowledge
about the field of career, willpower and proper counseling etc. The lecture was
followed by interactive session where the students actively resolved their
queries. At the end Prof. Sudhir Singh also encourage the students to take part
in the activities of Career Counseling Cell from time to time. Dr Mool Raj, Dr
Parveen Kumar and Prof. Sanjay Kumar were also present in the occasion.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Early Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             April 16, 2010 Friday

India: Students get smart on career options

LENGTH: 707  words

DATELINE: Bangalore


Bangalore, April 16 -- It was hard to distinguish students from parents as a
packed audience, numbering in excess of 2000 hung on to each word spoken by the
counselling experts at 'Career Counselling -2010' at Shikshakara Bhavan herre on
Wednesday.

According to our correspondent, the event organised by this newspaper and
Prajavani in association with Sambhram Institutions was an overwhelming success
as impressionable Class 10 and pre-college students went back home knowing that
the possibilities were endless.

The day's proceedings were kicked off by reknowned Career Counsellor Ali Khwaja.
The extensive session by Khwaja featured vital tips on choosing courses,
preparation for careers and an exhaustive list of career options for the
students of today. But the big message for students taking their baby steps into
the realm of higher education was to identify their strengths via
self-evaluation.

"Identify what you are good at before choosing a career path. Do not choose
courses in haste out of peer pressure or because Plan A does not work out," he
said. In complete contrast to Khwaja's clinical approach, the session from P V
Indaresan, former Director of IIT, Chennai, was both practical and philosophical
at the same time. He urged students to learn to enjoy whatever course they chose
as career choices were not always controllable.

Giving his own example and the dissonance between his dreams and the eventual
career path he took, Indaresan said "Absolutely enjoy whatever you choose to do.
Have fun with whatever you do because you are at least a happy person." In
between extolling the virtues of research and giving a philosophical twist to
careers, he urged students never to stop learning.

He was critical of software jobs and IT as they are more or less like
techno-coolie jobs. He advised the students to measure their skills with the
knowledge of what they do not know.

Prof Anil Rao, Dean of Welingkar Instutute of Management, gave an enlightning
account of management studies in India and abroad and shared his experiences
with the students.

Eager students and parents seeking guidance had the opportunity to interact with
the experts. The interaction was particularly gratifying for those students who
had their fears and anxieties dispelled. Questions such as 'Am I eligible for a
course in commerce or arts after science at the pre-university level?' or 'If
not IIT then what else?' were met with reassuring replies.

The second half of the event was an eye opener for those present as T R
Subramanya, Dean, Faculty of Law, Bangalore University and career expert Ameen
Mudassar opened up a world of possibilities. Subramanya's talk was an inside out
description and analysis of legal education, its importance and the endless
avenues for lawyers in a globalised world.

The last presentation, simply titled 'After SSLC what?' by Ameen Mudassar was
both entertaining and expansive. Mudassar immediately struck a chord with the
youngsters as he took them through slide after slide of possibilities ranging
from courses in tool and dye making to carpentry.

Suggestions have given us hope

"The counselling session was very educative and helpful. I want to be a
Chartered Accountant but am doing a science course at the PU level, therefore it
is big relief to be told that I can still pursue commerce at degree level."

Keerthana, 1st PUC

Science student, Kumaran's

"I am currently doing a Diploma in Electronics and intend to pursue an
engineering degree. The details provided at the session was very helpful."

Divya

"Things are a lot clearer now. I am science student and want to pursue
architecture and was completely unaware about the diploma courses in
architecture till today."

Shruti, 1st PUC student

"I was very confused about what my son should pursue. He is expecting only
average marks in his SSLC but now the innumerable options that were listed have
given us hope."

S Narasimhamurthy,

Parent of an SSLC student

"This session has been a process of discovery for me. The courses and the
opportunities available after Class 10 have given me immense hope."

Srinag Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For
more information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            March 24, 2004 Wednesday
                            Lake Edition; C4 Edition

College Night gives students head start in search process

BYLINE: Gwen H. Jader, Daily Herald Correspondent

SECTION: NEIGHBOR; CLC scene; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 413 words


While a search for the right college can include a series of on- site visits,
high school juniors and seniors, as well as transfer students, can save time and
legwork by attending the College of Lake County's College Night.

The event is from 6 to 8:30 p.m. Thursday on the Grayslake campus, 19351 W.
Washington St.

About 140 representatives from four-year colleges, universities and the military
will be on hand at the college's physical education center, building seven, says
Liliana Ware, student recruitment specialist.

"There will be a lot of good information for anyone looking to go to college,"
Ware says.

Admissions representatives from state schools in Illinois and Wisconsin will be
on hand to speak with students, including Indiana University and Northwestern
University. Representatives will come from as far as Hawaii Pacific University
and Pennsylvania State University.

About 2,200 people are expected to attend. The event targets juniors and seniors
and their parents, as well as students who wish to transfer to a four-year
school after CLC. Parking may be a challenge, so come early, Ware advises.

The different colleges and universities will exhibit in alphabetical order.
Representatives will answer questions about choosing a college and will provide
information about admission requirements, academic programs and campus
activities. Representatives of military schools will be on hand, as well.

The college's financial aid office will present a financial aid information
session at 7 p.m. in Room 706. The financial aid application process and the
various forms of assistance will be reviewed.

For information, call (847) 543-2090.

Landscaping classes: Spring is here, and the college is offering a series of
workshops to help gardeners.

Landscape designer and builder Tibor Gomory will present Landscape Fundamentals
I from 9 a.m. to noon Saturday, followed by Landscape Fundamentals II: Hands on
Design from 12:30 to 3:30 p.m. These will be repeated from 9 a.m. to noon and
12:30 to 3:30 p.m. Sunday on the Grayslake campus.

In the introductory class, students will learn about basic garden designs and
plans and choosing proper plant materials, paving materials, wood products, soil
amendments, trees, shrubs, annuals and perennials. The fee is $29.

In the advanced class, students will sketch a blueprint landscaping plan for
their gardens which will be reviewed by the instructor. The fee is $49.

For information, call the continuing education office at (847) 543-2022.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              279 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Campbelltown-Macarthur Advertiser

                           February 5, 2014 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Learning curve continues

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 64

LENGTH: 369 words


LEAVING high school is a daunting experience and after 13 years of schooling
your life will change dramatically. The good news is that there are many options
available for school leavers, but it is important to make the right choice. Here
are some suggestions which you may find helpful in deciding what path to follow.
" Visit careerfaqs.com.au for more information and advice

" University:

Many people choose to attend university. For many careers a university degree is
now a necessity. University can help you increase learning in your chosen field,
be it law, medicine, communications/media, graphic design, theatre or history.

It can be difficult to choose a course, but once the choosing is out of the way,
more studies in the topic of your choice should be an enjoyable experience.

But university is not just about learning; it also offers a great social
adventure with many opportunities to join clubs, attend events and even take up
a new hobby.

" TAFE:

TAFE courses often offer a more industry based education program and can provide
a stepping stone into university.

If you are interested in various trades, such as hospitality, hairdressing,
carpentry or beauty therapy, then choosing a TAFE course may be your best
option. Sometimes qualifications for TAFE and university overlap, so it is up to
you to choose what suits best - this may be based on the course duration, or
even costs.

" Private College:

For courses in IT, community services, design, beauty, tourism and much more,
there are many private colleges in Australia that may suit your needs. Some
private colleges can offer more flexible class options, or even a step towards
university.

" Getting a job:

Often jumping straight into the workforce after school is a good option.
Building experience is a great career starter and can help you eventually land
that dream job.

Keeping an eye on job advertisements and putting together a good resume is very
important.

" A gap year:

Whether you're jet-setting across the world, or earning money to help out with
uni fees you may choose to take a gap year after high school. A well-earned
break will offer great opportunities to gain life experience and time to decide
what you would like to do in the future.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Camden Advertiser

                           February 5, 2014 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Learning curve continues

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 66

LENGTH: 369 words


LEAVING high school is a daunting experience and after 13 years of schooling
your life will change dramatically. The good news is that there are many options
available for school leavers, but it is important to make the right choice. Here
are some suggestions which you may find helpful in deciding what path to follow.
" Visit careerfaqs.com.au for more information and advice

" University:

Many people choose to attend university. For many careers a university degree is
now a necessity. University can help you increase learning in your chosen field,
be it law, medicine, communications/media, graphic design, theatre or history.

It can be difficult to choose a course, but once the choosing is out of the way,
more studies in the topic of your choice should be an enjoyable experience.

But university is not just about learning; it also offers a great social
adventure with many opportunities to join clubs, attend events and even take up
a new hobby.

" TAFE:

TAFE courses often offer a more industry based education program and can provide
a stepping stone into university.

If you are interested in various trades, such as hospitality, hairdressing,
carpentry or beauty therapy, then choosing a TAFE course may be your best
option. Sometimes qualifications for TAFE and university overlap, so it is up to
you to choose what suits best - this may be based on the course duration, or
even costs.

" Private College:

For courses in IT, community services, design, beauty, tourism and much more,
there are many private colleges in Australia that may suit your needs. Some
private colleges can offer more flexible class options, or even a step towards
university.

" Getting a job:

Often jumping straight into the workforce after school is a good option.
Building experience is a great career starter and can help you eventually land
that dream job.

Keeping an eye on job advertisements and putting together a good resume is very
important.

" A gap year:

Whether you're jet-setting across the world, or earning money to help out with
uni fees you may choose to take a gap year after high school. A well-earned
break will offer great opportunities to gain life experience and time to decide
what you would like to do in the future.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Wollondilly Advertiser

                           February 5, 2014 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Learning curve continues

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 369 words


LEAVING high school is a daunting experience and after 13 years of schooling
your life will change dramatically. The good news is that there are many options
available for school leavers, but it is important to make the right choice. Here
are some suggestions which you may find helpful in deciding what path to follow.
" Visit careerfaqs.com.au for more information and advice

" University:

Many people choose to attend university. For many careers a university degree is
now a necessity. University can help you increase learning in your chosen field,
be it law, medicine, communications/media, graphic design, theatre or history.

It can be difficult to choose a course, but once the choosing is out of the way,
more studies in the topic of your choice should be an enjoyable experience.

But university is not just about learning; it also offers a great social
adventure with many opportunities to join clubs, attend events and even take up
a new hobby.

" TAFE:

TAFE courses often offer a more industry based education program and can provide
a stepping stone into university.

If you are interested in various trades, such as hospitality, hairdressing,
carpentry or beauty therapy, then choosing a TAFE course may be your best
option. Sometimes qualifications for TAFE and university overlap, so it is up to
you to choose what suits best - this may be based on the course duration, or
even costs.

" Private College:

For courses in IT, community services, design, beauty, tourism and much more,
there are many private colleges in Australia that may suit your needs. Some
private colleges can offer more flexible class options, or even a step towards
university.

" Getting a job:

Often jumping straight into the workforce after school is a good option.
Building experience is a great career starter and can help you eventually land
that dream job.

Keeping an eye on job advertisements and putting together a good resume is very
important.

" A gap year:

Whether you're jet-setting across the world, or earning money to help out with
uni fees you may choose to take a gap year after high school. A well-earned
break will offer great opportunities to gain life experience and time to decide
what you would like to do in the future.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                   Hills News

                            February 4, 2014 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Learning curve continues

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 369 words


LEAVING high school is a daunting experience and after 13 years of schooling
your life will change dramatically. The good news is that there are many options
available for school leavers, but it is important to make the right choice. Here
are some suggestions which you may find helpful in deciding what path to follow.
" Visit careerfaqs.com.au for more information and advice

" University:

Many people choose to attend university. For many careers a university degree is
now a necessity. University can help you increase learning in your chosen field,
be it law, medicine, communications/media, graphic design, theatre or history.

It can be difficult to choose a course, but once the choosing is out of the way,
more studies in the topic of your choice should be an enjoyable experience.

But university is not just about learning; it also offers a great social
adventure with many opportunities to join clubs, attend events and even take up
a new hobby.

" TAFE:

TAFE courses often offer a more industry based education program and can provide
a stepping stone into university.

If you are interested in various trades, such as hospitality, hairdressing,
carpentry or beauty therapy, then choosing a TAFE course may be your best
option. Sometimes qualifications for TAFE and university overlap, so it is up to
you to choose what suits best - this may be based on the course duration, or
even costs.

" Private College:

For courses in IT, community services, design, beauty, tourism and much more,
there are many private colleges in Australia that may suit your needs. Some
private colleges can offer more flexible class options, or even a step towards
university.

" Getting a job:

Often jumping straight into the workforce after school is a good option.
Building experience is a great career starter and can help you eventually land
that dream job.

Keeping an eye on job advertisements and putting together a good resume is very
important.

" A gap year:

Whether you're jet-setting across the world, or earning money to help out with
uni fees you may choose to take a gap year after high school. A well-earned
break will offer great opportunities to gain life experience and time to decide
what you would like to do in the future.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  Northern News (Rouse Hill-Stanhope Gardens)

                            February 4, 2014 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Learning curve continues

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 369 words


LEAVING high school is a daunting experience and after 13 years of schooling
your life will change dramatically. The good news is that there are many options
available for school leavers, but it is important to make the right choice. Here
are some suggestions which you may find helpful in deciding what path to follow.
" Visit careerfaqs.com.au for more information and advice

" University:

Many people choose to attend university. For many careers a university degree is
now a necessity. University can help you increase learning in your chosen field,
be it law, medicine, communications/media, graphic design, theatre or history.

It can be difficult to choose a course, but once the choosing is out of the way,
more studies in the topic of your choice should be an enjoyable experience.

But university is not just about learning; it also offers a great social
adventure with many opportunities to join clubs, attend events and even take up
a new hobby.

" TAFE:

TAFE courses often offer a more industry based education program and can provide
a stepping stone into university.

If you are interested in various trades, such as hospitality, hairdressing,
carpentry or beauty therapy, then choosing a TAFE course may be your best
option. Sometimes qualifications for TAFE and university overlap, so it is up to
you to choose what suits best - this may be based on the course duration, or
even costs.

" Private College:

For courses in IT, community services, design, beauty, tourism and much more,
there are many private colleges in Australia that may suit your needs. Some
private colleges can offer more flexible class options, or even a step towards
university.

" Getting a job:

Often jumping straight into the workforce after school is a good option.
Building experience is a great career starter and can help you eventually land
that dream job.

Keeping an eye on job advertisements and putting together a good resume is very
important.

" A gap year:

Whether you're jet-setting across the world, or earning money to help out with
uni fees you may choose to take a gap year after high school. A well-earned
break will offer great opportunities to gain life experience and time to decide
what you would like to do in the future.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Chester Chronicle

                               September 1, 2016
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Record number confirm their place online

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 293 words


THOUSANDS of students due to start Coleg Cambria in September chose to confirm
their college place online after receiving their GCSE results last Thursday.

For many, the traditional method of coming into college on results day to enrol
is no more, with the majority choosing to confirm their places at home, online.

The college had over 5,000 confirmed places last week, with almost 4,000
students choosing to enrol via the online system.

The impressive new Deeside 6th form, jointly developed with Flintshire Council
has already had over 200 confirmed places. The data shows that some enrolments
came from as far away as the USA as many chose to confirm their place whilst on
holiday.

Head of Learner Information, Felicity Williams, said: ''This is the third year
that we have enabled students to confirm their college place in this way and
this year has seen a record number of students using this system.

"Over recent years, we've seen a change in traditional methods of admissions;
students receive their exam results by email and many prefer to communicate with
us online.

"We've seen an increase in the use of our live chat facility and queries via
social media so we have adapted our processes to be more flexible.'' Following
on from GCSE results week, staff at Coleg Cambria are available to provide
individual advice and guidance on career options, training and further education
routes, as well as finance and other support alternatives available.

Those who didn't gain the grades that they had hoped for are also urged to
contact the college to gain full support in making decisions about their future.

. ? For further information about courses, visit the website at
www.cambria.ac.uk, use the live chat facility or contact the college on 0300 30
30 007.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CHC


                           Copyright 2016 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                 Republican & Herald (Pottsville, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 24, 2009 Monday

New students, many from urban areas, move into Penn State Schuylkill over
weekend

BYLINE: Ben Wolfgang, Republican & Herald, Pottsville, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 445 words


Aug. 24--SCHUYLKILL HAVEN -- Many students have left the big city behind, coming
to Penn State Schuylkill to begin their college careers.

"I'm a little nervous. Not really sure what to expect," Tiquanna Jamison, 18, of
Philadelphia, said Sunday afternoon as orientation activities for new students
wrapped up.

Like many others, Jamison said he visited Penn State's main campus before
choosing the Schuylkill Haven location.

"There was just too much, too many people," Jamison, who plans to study biology
and medicine, said of the University Park campus.

Jamison and about 400 other students arrived in Schuylkill Haven over the
weekend, pushing enrollment at Penn State Schuylkill to about 1,000, according
to campus Chancellor Dr. R. Keith Hillkirk.

Hillkirk said this year's enrollment saw an increase in the number of adult
students, including some age 60 and older.

Another 15 students still in high school will take advantage of Penn State's
dual-enrollment program this year, getting a head start on college while
finishing high school.

The only decrease in enrollment, Hillkirk said, is among out-of-state students.

"I think that's because of the (economic) recession," Hillkirk said, adding more
students nationwide are choosing to stick closer to home for their college
educations.

New student orientation programs began Friday, but many students were still
moving into their dorms Sunday afternoon.

At 3 p.m., the campus gymnasium was packed with students getting last bits of
instruction from Hillkirk and other college officials before beginning classes
today.

"Some of the most important choices of your life will be made here at Penn State
Schuylkill," Dr. Stephen R. Couch, director of academic affairs, told the crowd.

Hillkirk and other faculty members reminded new students that one of Penn
State's greatest virtues is its diverse student body.

"How bland we would be if we were not diverse," he said.

Like Jamison, other students wanted the Penn State education without the main
campus crowds.

Amar Ali, 18, of Philadelphia, said he plans to eventually move on to the main
campus, but for now, he's getting his feet wet at a smaller campus.

"I just want to get used to the process," Ali, an engineering major, said Sunday
afternoon.

To see more of the Republican & Herald or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.republicanherald.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Republican & Herald,
Pottsville, Pa. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20090824-RN-New-students-many-from-urban-areas-move-into-Penn-State-Schuylkill-o
ver-weekend-0824

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RN


                                 Copyright 2009

                              286 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                              July 2, 2017 Sunday

Record cut-off fails to woo students

BYLINE: Fareeha Iftikhar

LENGTH: 326  words


Despite a drop of 3% in the second cut-off list, no student took admission in
some courses of Khalsa

The Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur (SGTB) Khalsa College, which had surprised everyone
after setting a record cut-off in the first list, has remained deserted in the
first leg of the admission process. In fact, the college witnessed a drop of
2.5-3 per cent in the second cut-off list, announced on Friday.

The college had put forth the highest cut-off in the first list in all streams -
BSc (Electronics) at 99.6 per cent, BCom (H) at 98 per cent, and Political
Science (H) at 99 per cent.

Several courses being offered at the college had no takers till Saturday. "Even
after reducing the cut-off in every course, not even a single student took
admission in some courses, including BSc (Zoology) and BSc (Botany)," a college
official said.

"In courses including BSc (Physical Science), BSc (Chemistry), BSc
(Electronics), and Political Science (H), no student has taken admission under
the general category as of now," he said, adding that only two-three minority
quota students have opted for these courses in Khalsa.

PS Jassal, Officiating Principal, Khalsa, said: "The cut-off in the first list
was decided based on the number of applications we had received for these
courses. We reduced the cut-off in the second list as we did not receive the
desired turnout in the first phase."

According to the college officials, the cut-off for BSc (Electronics) is
expected to further reduce by 2-3 per cent. "The course offers more than 100
seats and only two-three students have taken admissions as of now," a senior
official said.

On being queried about this low turn-out, the official said: "Students are
choosing colleges over courses."

...& ANALYSIS

Almost all colleges are receiving a lower footfall this year as the cut-offs
have gone really high. Also, students are choosing popular colleges instead of
the desired courses.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2017 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                            January 13, 2013 Sunday

Do not regret your choices

BYLINE: Audrey Chew Ernern

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 482 words


PLANNING takes place at every stage of our lives. For couples in love,
organising a wedding is the next big step. For newly-weds, family planning takes
priority. For soon-to-be secondary school-leavers like me, choosing the right
university programme tops the list.

Posters of open days at different colleges are pasted all over my school in
Ireland. Teachers frequently ask: "So, what do you intend to pursue after
school?" Parents sit you down and ask the dreaded question: "What are you going
to do with your life?"

I visited three universities in Ireland - Trinity College Dublin, University of
Cork and University of Limerick. Each tertiary institution has its advantages
and disadvantages with regard to location, programme content and duration.

I attended talks on courses that I was interested in - a mix of Business,
Psychology and Sociology. Some speakers were passionate, whereas others had
disinterest written all over their faces.

I walked through the halls, gardens and campus grounds, and wondered if I would
enjoy spending four years there.

Trinity College Dublin stood out among the rest.

Attending university seemed a far-off pursuit till my teacher told me that I had
to submit my applications soon.

Selecting a tertiary course is an extremely intricate matter. Many people do not
realise the importance of choosing their future path. Some opt for a course that
sounds relatively interesting without fully scrutinising it.

On the other hand, there are those who are forced by their parents to pursue a
programme which they are not keen on but brings in the money.

My sister, who completed her degree in Medicine a few years ago, told me several
of her classmates did not have a say in their choice of a career. That resulted
in a number of dropouts throughout the course due to lack of interest or the
inability to cope with its demands.

After hearing such tales, it is rather daunting to pick one from the many
courses available. What if you detest the modules once you begin your freshman
year? Or you love your studies but job opportunities do not come easy? And what
if your examination results do not meet the requirements of your intended
course?

Also, there are many factors to take into account. For instance, money is always
an issue. University fees escalate every year and the cost of accommodation,
travel and food is also on the rise.

Scholarships are highly sought-after. I was raised to study hard to win a
scholarship, be it full or partial. In Ireland, there is an array of study aid
for those who excel in sport or who are from underprivileged families. But there
is only a handful of scholarships based solely on academic excellence and tied
to household income.

So, do research, select your course wisely and, most importantly, do not regret
your choices.

The writer is studying at a high school in Ireland. She loves to try all things
but is a Malaysian at heart

( END )

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: You

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2013 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 2, 2011 Tuesday

ON COLLEGE: College fit just as important as grades

BYLINE: By Purvi S. Mody Daily News Columnist

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 383 words


A: You might be surprised to read this, but this is not an uncommon question.
The most important thing is that your son has been improving and is motivated to
attend college. If he has D's or F's on his transcript, have him redo those
courses as soon as possible. That will be the fastest way to bring his GPA up
and show colleges that he wants to do what it takes to get in.

Make sure that your son also takes the necessary standardized tests. Most, but
not all, schools will require at least the SAT or ACT. If he hasn't taken these
exams, he has until December to do so. I would encourage your son to put great
effort into these tests -- he has a chance to demonstrate his reasoning skills
and, to a degree, counteract his GPA.

Now let's get to the heart of your question. There are more than 2,000 four-year
colleges in the U.S., and 400 were accepting applications as late as June. The
most important thing is to be flexible when thinking about schools. You want to
find schools that are going to appreciate your son's improving GPA and
potential. There are even schools that will accept art, music or writing
portfolios for students with less-than-ideal grades. This can be a great option
for your son to show his interests. Look beyond brand name and focus on what
each school can offer your son.

You definitely want to avoid a repeat of his early high school years. Pay close
attention to the academic environments of colleges. Your son could benefit from
smaller class sizes offered by some private schools. Also look for schools that
will offer academic programs that interest him.

It's OK if your son has not picked a major. Colleges are aware that students
often explore their options before choosing a path.

I would also recommend looking at schools that don't require standardized
testing. These schools tend to emphasize more than academics in the admissions
process.

Choosing a college can be one of the most complex decisions a family ever makes,
especially when it involves schools that are not commonly discussed. Remember,
however, that the goal is to find the right fit for your son.

Purvi S. Mody is co-owner of Insight Education, an educational consulting firm
that helps students throughout the Bay Area to achieve their educational goals.
Email her at purvi@insight-education.net .

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                           January 13, 2016 Wednesday

Naperville districts paying to stick with ACT exams

BYLINE: By Marie Wilson mwilson@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 289 words


The ACT has been the king of college entrance exams in the suburbs for years --
and it's staying that way this year in Naperville.

Naperville Unit District 203 and Indian Prairie Unit District 204 will pay to
give juniors the ACT this spring, despite the state leaning toward choosing the
SAT.

District 203 will spend about $80,000 to give the test to roughly 1,400 juniors
at $56.50 for each test, while District 204 will spend about $130,000 to
administer it to 2,300 students, assessment officials said. Both districts will
offer a version of the exam with a writing component.

Moving forward with the test for which students and parents have been preparing
makes sense, even in a period of uncertainty about state action on choosing and
paying for a college-entrance exam, said Patrick Nolten, executive director of
assessment, research and evaluation in District 204.

Nolten said the state has not yet signed a contract with the SAT but officials
are leaning toward doing so despite an appeal from the ACT. If the state doesn't
pay for college entrance testing for juniors, it can't force districts to choose
a specific exam, officials said.

So many districts are sticking with consistency.

"It's prudent to give the ACT this year because parents and students have been
preparing for months, maybe even a year," District 204 school board member
Michael Raczak said.

The Naperville and Indian Prairie districts will give the ACT during a school
day in the spring, while picking up the new expense.

"We could choose to let the parents pay for it, but we're so late in the game.
That's a $55 expense the state is shifting to us, per student," District 204
school board member Justin Karubas said. "I'm comfortable with the district
paying that."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              290 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 3, 2013 Tuesday

Washington: September and October are peak months for fires in college housing

LENGTH: 422  words

DATELINE: Washington


The National Fire Protection Association has issued the following news release:

In a report released today by National Fire Protection Association (NFPA),
September and October were identified as peak months for fires in college
housing. According to the report "Structure Fires in Dormitories, Fraternities,
Sororities, and Barracks," in 2007-2011, U.S. fire departments responded to an
estimated annual average of 3,810 structure fires in dormitories, fraternities,
sororities, and barracks. "As college students settle into housing at school or
off-campus, reviewing safety tips is a valuable way for them to remember what
actions can be taken to prevent fire and how they can prepare to escape if one
occurs," said Lorraine Carli, NFPA's vice president of communications. "Being
sure that smoke alarms are working, and having and practicing a fire escape plan
is vital."

Roughly 70 percent of fires in dormitories, fraternities, sororities, and
barracks began in the kitchen or cooking area. Seven percent of fires started in
the bedroom, but these fires were responsible for 27 percent of injuries and 21
percent of property damage. The report also noted that fires are most common in
the evening hours, between 5 p.m. and 11 p.m. and on weekends.

"Most cooking fires happen when cooking is left unattended. By choosing to stay
in the kitchen while cooking, students can reduce their risk of having a cooking
fire," added Carli.

NFPA offers safety tips for college students living in on- or off-campus
housing:

Look for fully sprinklered housing when choosing a dorm or off-campus housing.
 Make sure your dormitory or apartment has smoke alarms inside each bedroom,
outside every sleeping area and on each level. For the best protection, all
smoke alarms should be interconnected so that when one sounds they all sound.
 Test all smoke alarms at least monthly.
 Never remove batteries or disable smoke alarms.
 Learn your building's evacuation plan and practice all drills as if they were
the real thing.
 If you live off campus, have a fire escape plan with two ways out of every
room.
 When the smoke alarm or fire alarm sounds, get out of the building quickly and
stay out.
 Cook only where it is permitted.
 Stay in the kitchen when cooking.
 Cook only when you are alert, not sleepy or drowsy from medicine or alcohol.
 Check your school's rules before using electrical appliances in your room.
 Use a surge protector for your computer and plug the protector directly into an
outlet.

For more information please visit: http://www.nfpa.org

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           January 16, 2014 Thursday

Speaking your languages;
Science and engineering courses at NUI no longer insist on a third language but
for most disciplines the requirement remains

SECTION: SPECIAL REPORTS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 602 words


Do I need a third language, other than English and Irish?Different colleges and
courses have different requirements when it comes to languages. Make sure to
research your preferred courses and meet the language requirements for them. We
recommend that all students take up a third language. Not only is it desirable
for future travels and careers, but by dropping a language early on, you are
making yourself ineligible for hundreds of courses on the CAO which you may
regret later on in the year. A third language is also necessary for entry into
the cadetship in the army or the air corps.

Do I need a third language for NUI  entry?The NUI represents University College
Dublin (UCD), University College Cork (UCC), National University of Ireland
Galway (NUIG) and National University of Ireland Maynooth (NUIM). For entry into
any of these universities, English, Irish and a third language is necessary.
Recent exceptions have been made however. The faculties of science, agriculture
and  engineering and courses in nursing, no longer require a third language for
entry. Students entering the National College of Art and Design (NCAD) can
select art instead of a third language.Can I get away with not choosing a third
language?Outside of the NUI colleges, two languages are most often demanded.
Trinity College Dublin (TCD), University of Limerick (UL) and Dublin College
University (DCU) each accept Irish as a second language and therefore students
can get away with not choosing a third. A third language is also not required
for  any of the institutes of technology. Be aware however that a language must
be studied and practised over time. If you change your mind and wish to take one
up later on in the year, you are far less likely to achieve a good grade in it.
Most schools have made a third language compulsory for students so that they are
not limited when it comes to the CAO.How do I decide which third language to
choose?Most students tend to continue   with a language they studied for the
Junior Cert. A strong base has been achieved at this stage. If you are
interested in studying languages, there has been a huge increase in the number
of courses offering a language option such as journalism, business and commerce.
It is important to look at the specific requirements needed for  these courses.
Usually a C3 in higher level is necessary for entry. For example French is
required for studying law and French in TCD and UCC, for business and French in
TCD, and for law with French law or BCL ma^ytrise in UCD. Also take into
consideration whether or not your desired course has an Erasmus programme. Your
chances of being sent to a country you prefer are increased when you can speak
the language.Which language is the most popular?French is the most popular
choice for a third language in the Leaving Cert. Over 25,500 students sat the
French exam in 2013.

German is the second most popular choice of languages in the Leaving Cert.
Germany has become one of the strongest economies in Europe and therefore
grasping the language will greatly benefit students in the future.

Spanish is becoming increasingly popular as a Leaving Cert subject. It is the
second most spoken language in the world today - some 400 million speakers and
almost 5,000 Leaving Cert students sat this paper in 2013.

Although the number of students choosing Italian remains smaller (just over 350
students in 2013), that's  still significantly higher than the remaining 11
languages. Although not required to study for any third degree course, it is
strongly advised to take Italian if you wish to study it further in college.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 18, 2013 Wednesday

State website teaches lessons on student loans

BYLINE: Dan Kelly, Reading Eagle, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 304 words


Sept. 18--The amount they'll be required to shell out for student loans often is
the last thing prospective college freshmen are thinking about.

But it ought to be the first thing on the minds of these students and their
parents, officials at the Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Agency said
Tuesday.

PHEAA, the agency that distributes student loans to thousands of college-bound
students every year, has launched MySmartBorrowing.org.

The website's purpose is to get students and their parents thinking seriously
about taking on loans for college from the start, and not afterward, when it's
too late.

Christine Saadie, director of student financial planning at Alvernia University,
said high school freshmen, rather than seniors, are the ones who will benefit
most from the new website.

"I was saying just the other day that in a perfect world I would be talking to
eighth-, ninth- and 10th-graders, and not seniors in high school," Saadie said.

MySmartBorrowing.org should be put to use in high school guidance offices, where
students usually make their first inquiries into college, she explained.

MySmartBorrowing.org is not a light and breezy look at campus life.

"When you log onto it, you have to answer questions before you can continue,"
Saadie said. "Some of the questions are complex, not hard, but complex, like
choosing a career and then choosing a major."

Saadie acknowledged that asking a high school freshman to choose a career, a
major and a university is a complex and difficult thing to do. Nevertheless, she
said, MySmartBorrowing.org can be a valuable tool for students, parents and
guidance counselors.

Contact Dan Kelly: 610-371-5040 or dkelly@readingeagle.com

___ (c)2013 the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) Visit the Reading Eagle (Reading,
Pa.) at readingeagle.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130918-RE-State-website-teaches-lessons-on-student-loans-0918-20130918

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RE


                          Copyright 2013 Reading Eagle

                              293 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                           October 15, 2014 Wednesday
                               Australian Edition

Accommodate need for greater detail

BYLINE: BERNARD LANE

SECTION: HIGHEREDUCATION; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 295  words


CHOOSING a university? Imagine you're hotel-hunting.

"I sometimes think that we should look at universities a little bit more like we
look at hotels," said Peter Shergold, whose many higher education hats include a
velvet trencher cap as chancellor at the University of Western -Sydney.

Last week, Professor Shergold told the Senate committee on higher education
reforms that he considered the market to be "immature", with not very well
informed students and parents choosing the institution closest to home or being
seduced by a "brand image" such as the Group of Eight.

"(But) when you decide which hotel you are going to visit, you look at prices,
you look at loca-tion, you look at service, you look at what is offered and you
look for value for money," he said.

"It is crucial - if people are going to make a choice about (institutions) - to
have more (information) than what the fees are going to be." Professor Shergold
said his expert group had advised the government that public universities and
private colleges should release the same information, including annual reports,
audited finances, governance set-up and strategic plans.

As well, they should report results on measures of student satisfaction,
graduate outcomes and employer satisfaction.

"(The idea is) that if you are looking to get a higher degree, a higher
education, you can compare all the different providers and you can do so in an
informed way," he said.

And these graduate and employer ratings would help future students decide
whether it made sense "to pay more or less -between one institution and
-another", he said."I would expect that as the market opens there would be
-additional (competition to public universities) that would want to participate,
including overseas universities," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian


                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                            December 15, 2013 Sunday

A scholar's gift suggestions

BYLINE: By Thomas Sowell

LENGTH: 449 words


Books are ideal Christmas presents. There are the traditional coffee-table
books, featuring marvelous photographs by Ansel Adams or the moving human scenes
in the paintings of Norman Rockwell, both very appropriate for the season. But
there are also more serious, even grim, books that some readers will appreciate.

Among those latter kinds of books is &quote;Why We Won't Talk Honestly About
Race&quote; by Harry Stein (Encounter Books). A bracing dose of truth on a
subject where sugarcoated lies have become the norm, this book says publicly
what many people say only privately, whether about affirmative action, Barack
Obama or the ongoing obscenity of gross television shows about paternity tests.
Hopeful signs past and present are also covered, along with honest and
insightful people like Bill Cosby and Shelby Steele. But the abuse to which such
people have been subjected is a sobering reminder that it is still a struggle to
confront racial issues.

A very different book, but one with the same goal of getting at reality despite
society's prevailing fog of rhetoric, is &quote;Choosing the Right College
2014-15: The Inside Scoop on Elite Schools and Outstanding Lesser-Known
Institutions&quote; by John Zmirak (Intercollegiate Studies Institute).
Enormously valuable for both students and parents, it is by far the best college
guide, for both its honesty and its insights. Unlike other college guides, it is
judgmental, saying, for example, that Boston College has a &quote;(t)errific
political science department&quote; and its graduates in &quote;finance have a
fast track to jobs in big Boston firms&quote; but its &quote;(e)ducation and
sociology departments are mediocre hotbeds of radical activism.&quote; That kind
of information helps not only when deciding which college to attend, but when
choosing courses.

With so many people already speculating as to who might be the
&quote;frontrunner&quote; for the Republican nomination for president in 2016,
Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker's new book, &quote;Unintimidated: A Governor's Story
and a Nation's Challenge&quote; (Sentinel), written with Marc Thiessen, may be
especially worth reading. It shows a man of real depth, and with an impressive
track record that ought to overshadow the rhetoric of others, especially among
Washington Republicans. Unlike them, Gov. Walker has been tested and has come
through with flying colors. His ending of labor unions' sacred-cow status in
Wisconsin, in spite of union thuggery in the capital and death threats to
himself, his wife and his children, tells us what kind of man he is.

Merry Christmas to all.

Thomas Sowell is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                           November 10, 2007 Saturday
                          First with the news Edition

Strategy for entry into workforce

SECTION: CAREERONE; Pg. E55

LENGTH: 395  words


Career Choices for School Leavers

OFFERING fast tracked diplomas in business, graphic design and multi-media
technology, Martin College gives students the opportunity to kick start their
career sooner.

Martin College courses include a Career Advancement Strategy, which involves
equipping students with job-ready skills for quick entry into the workforce.

Martin College career consultant Bradford Power said the college assisted
students in getting full-time jobs when they completed their industry-based
courses.

''By choosing a qualified fast track course with a job placement service, your
early entry into the marketplace gains you the competitive edge,'' Mr Power
said.

''Employers always indicate a strong interest in employing our graduates because
they are workplace ready.''

According to Mr Power, Generation Y school leavers are choosing more strategic
study options to advance their career more quickly than their predecessors,
Generation X.

''Generation X was convinced that to get ahead after leaving school you had to
start with a university degree.

''Generation Y are more hungry for success than any previous generation before,
and understand that investing their first three years post high school on
completing a university degree is not always the best option,'' Mr Power said.

Martin College offers six-month diplomas of business, specialising in marketing,
event management, travel and tourism, international business, human resources,
management, accounting and legal services.

Students can unleash their creative talents by studying the Diploma of Graphic
Design (Multimedia & Advertising) or the Diploma of Information Technology
(Multimedia Integration). The college also offers an Advanced Diploma of
Business Management and Advanced Diploma of Business Marketing, with no OP
required for entry into any of the courses.

Mr Power said many graduates chose to use their credit packages to gain entry to
university and study a degree part time.

''Most high school students who go straight to university are 21 when they
experience their first career job interview,'' he said.

''Comparatively, by the age of 21, our graduates have an industry recognised
diploma, have two-and-a-half years full time industry experience and have almost
completed upgrading from a diploma to a degree part time.''

For further information visit www.martincollege.edu.au or call 131 671.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CML


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                          December 30, 2015 Wednesday

A revealing and refreshing counselling session for students taking up higher
education

LENGTH: 410  words

DATELINE: KALABURAGI


KALABURAGI, Dec. 30 -- It was a revealing and refreshing experience on Tuesday
for students on the verge of entering higher education at the career counselling
conference jointly organised by The Hindu in School and GITAM University with
human resource experts providing information about a wide range of opportunities
available.


 Students at the jam-packed Sri Doddappa Appa Auditorium here were spellbound by
an inspiring address by human rights expert and motivator G.V.N. Raju who kept
them glued to their seats during his hour-long power-packed speech interspersed
with witty jokes and valuable information about the process of admission.
 Dr. Raju, who is also vice-president of ICON Human Resource Development Company
in Hyderabad, said that although opportunities in higher education were wide
ranging, students, before choosing their course, which would ultimately shape
their career, should introspect and take inventory of their strength, potential,
qualities, advantages and disadvantages. He said that for achieving success in
life and excelling in the chosen career, one should have passion for the path
one has chosen, plan to achieve perfection and progress in a planned manner.
Career counselling sessions would only show different paths for students in
which they can excel; finally, it was the students who should take the final
decision on the path they want to tread.
 In a word of advice, Dr. Raju said that while students choosing a college or a
university should be aware of the academic excellence of that particular
institution, faculty strength and the general ranking the institution has in the
academic field. The strength of the institution, particularly the quality of the
faculty, is very important for the student to succeed in his career.
 He said that students while choosing their course subject should have a clear
picture about their chosen profession and its demand in future.
 Principal and Dean of the School of Technology, GITAM University (Hyderabad
Campus), C.H. Sanjay, in his brief address, gave insight about the rise of GITAM
university to fame and claimed that GITAM University holds the fourth position
among all deemed universities in all-India ranking. He also gave details of
courses offered in the three campuses of the university at Visakhapatnam,
Bengaluru and Hyderabad.
 Professor Venkatnath of GITAM University spoke. Principal of Sharanabasaveshwar
Residential Composite PU College N.S. Devarkal was present.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                            January 20, 2008 Sunday
                                 First Edition

Hands up for hands-on;
Vocational Education

BYLINE: Carolyn Boyd

SECTION: SUPPLEMENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 731 words


Training on the job is a fast track to the top, writes Carolyn Boyd.

IN A climate where employers are desperately seeking skilled workers, vocational
education and training is giving many job applicants the edge.

"There's a lot more focus on short, quick skills that businesses need these
days, so you can jump in and out of training throughout your life, and
vocational education is a great way of doing that," says Juliana Stackpool,
acting national executive officer of the Australian Council for Private
Education and Training.

While vocational education still offers study in traditional trades such as
carpentry and plumbing, there's courses in everything from community services
and tourism, to accounting and graphic design.

The two fields that attract the most students are management and commerce; and
engineering and related technologies.

Why go vocational?

Vocational education can make you job-ready, help you gain a new skill, or can
open up further study opportunities. Stackpool says the great thing about
vocational education is that it caters to everyone from school leavers to mature
workers.

In 2006, 88 per cent of VET students were satisfied with the quality of the
training they received, and nearly nine out of 10 students either gained a job
or enrolled in further study after they finished, according to the National
Council for Vocational Education Research.

Choosing a course

There are more than 2000 vocational education providers including TAFEs,
community colleges and private colleges. If you're not sure what you would like
to do, visit www.jobjuice.gov.au, which has tips about choosing a direction. To
find out who offers what courses, try www.myfuture.edu.au where you can search
by course and location.

TAFE NSW is one of the biggest VET organisations with more than 1200 courses.
Some HSC courses gain you credit towards TAFE modules, and if you are a school
leaver who has achieved units of competency as part of a VET course, you can
apply for advanced standing for those units.

How to apply

You'll need to contact your preferred course provider to find out how and when
to enrol or visit their website for more information.

At TAFE, there are two intakes each year, one for each semester. You can enrol
in most courses in person. For people in the Sydney area, new enrolments are
being taken on February 1 and 4. If you are applying for TAFE in a country area,
contact your local institute to find out the dates for enrolling.

A handful of TAFE courses require an application to be submitted. However, if
you are hoping to get into one of those courses, you'll need to wait until April
28 to apply for semester two. First semester applications have already closed.
To find out which courses require applications, visit www.tafensw.edu.au.

Time taken

Study options range from half-day single subjects to certificates, which take
four to six months to finish, and associate degrees, which can take two to three
years to complete.

Some courses are accredited, which means they have been registered with the
Vocational Education and Training Accreditation Board and meet a certain
standard. These range from certificates I to IV, to graduate diplomas.

To meet specialist or local needs, TAFE and other VET providers also offer
non-accredited courses.

Getting experience

Combining your studies with on-the-job experience will boost your employment
prospects. One option is to secure an apprenticeship or traineeship that lets
you work and study. To find out more visit
www.australian-apprenticeships.gov.au.

Sometimes it can be difficult to land a paid role if you don't have any
experience in a particular job or sector. In that case it might be possible to
find paid work at a lower level. Many jobs are not advertised and unpaid work
experience can also lead to a job offer.

DID YOU KNOW?

The largest number of occupations which have good job prospects to 2012 require
skills you can only get through post school education and training. The
likelihood of being unemployed falls with increasing levels of educational
attainment.

STUDENT LOANS

The Federal Government plans to introduce loans later this year to help VET
students studying diplomas, advanced diplomas, graduate certificates and
graduate diplomas. Called VET FEE-HELP, the loan will be similar to that
available to university students. For further information visit www.dest.gov.au
and search for VET fee help.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SEVEN PHOTOS: On the go ... career savvy people never stop learning.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2008 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                            April 24, 2013 Wednesday

Charter to reform OJEE process

BYLINE: OUR CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 280  words


Bhubaneswar, April 24: A two-day interactive workshop titled "The Road Ahead -
for speedy reforms in OJEE 2013" organised by around 50 private engineering
colleges concluded today.

The Odisha Technical Colleges' Association presented a 10-point charter of
recommendations to the department of technical education for consideration.

The association sought a fixed OJEE calendar and timely declaration of results
(along with other states and private universities) so that students don't have
to suffer and have the flexibility of choosing colleges and streams of their
choice.

To make the entire procedure more convenient, the association proposed for
payment of admission fee, installation of CCTV cameras, surprise visits by OJEE
officials at nodal centres, physical verification of certificates, updating of
the seat matrix and flexibility in choosing the nodal centres.

L.N. Panda, chairman of OJEE, made the delegates go through the detailed process
of OJEE in his presentation and challenges faced in the exercise.

Priyabrata Sahu, secretary of OJEE said there should be transparency in OJEE.

For the past three years, OJEE has come under severe criticism from various
communities, especially from students appearing from OJEE and their parents, for
tedious application process, delay in results, malpractices in counselling and
various other procedures that had severely affected careers of students.

This has also resulted in migration of students to other states for technical
education, resulting in a large number of seats going vacant in various colleges
in the state. The damages are so high that some colleges have either closed down
entirely or scrapped some of their courses.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2013 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Ottumwa Courier (Iowa)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           November 6, 2013 Wednesday

Former Warrior McKay chooses Cyclones after transferring from Marquette

BYLINE: Scott Jackson, Ottumwa Courier, Iowa

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 761 words


Nov. 06--AMES -- For Indian Hills basketball fans that were waiting to see
Jameel McKay playing major four-year college basketball, there's good news and
bad news.

The bad news is that McKay won't be playing at a four-year school this year.

The good news, however, is that when McKay returns to the floor, he will do so
back in Iowa in Cyclone red and gold.

Despite a choice that will require him to miss the upcoming college basketball
season, McKay made the announcement Tuesday night that he has chosen Iowa State
as his new home to continue her career. The two-time NJCAA All-American former
IHCC star announced over Twitter and officially to the Ames Tribune that he has
verbally committed to join the Cyclones.

In a phone interview with the Tribune, McKay cited a long-standing relationship
with Iowa State head men's basketball coach Fred Hoiberg and his coaching staff,
and the Cyclones' up-tempo style of play as the reasons for choosing to attend
ISU. McKay plans on enrolling at the school starting this spring, when the
Cyclones will have a scholarship available to offer.

"The relationship I have with the coaching staff," McKay told the Tribune was
his reason for choosing Iowa State, which will mean that McKay won't be eligible
to play until after the 2014 fall semester.

McKay, a forward, had been recruited by Hoiberg during his time at Indian Hills.
McKay instead opted for a return to his hometown of Milwaukee by choosing to
attend Marquette last summer at the time McKay's IHCC teammates Dustin Hogue and
Richard Amardi signed with Hoiberg and the Cyclones.

McKay was at Marquette only a couple of months before a difference with Golden
Eagles' head coach Buzz Williams made McKay decide to transfer from the school.

"Just disagreements on things is as simple as I can put it," McKay said about
his decision to transfer, which was also based on where Williams envisioned the
6-8 power forward playing on the floor. "Playing out of position was a part of
it. I wasn't comfortable."

Transfer rules mean that McKay will have to sit out a full year after he enrolls
for the spring semester. That would make McKay eligible to play after the 2014
fall semester, leaving McKay eligible to play the final half of his junior
season at Iowa State next year before playing a full senior year in 2015-16.
Iowa State can also apply to the NCAA for a waiver to have McKay eligible
earlier, however.

McKay was a major part of 59 wins in 67 games over two years at Indian Hills,
earning a first-team NJCAA All-American honor while averaging a double-double
for his Warrior career. McKay finished with 18.1 points, 10.6 rebounds, 1.6
assists and 2 blocks per game during his sophomore season.

Illinois, Indiana and Memphis also were on McKay's radar before choosing to
return to the state he called home for the past two years. Known for an up-tempo
style that can produce points both by pushing the ball up court and creating
extra opportunities on defense, Iowa State's style of play under Hoiberg is
similar to the system McKay thrived in under Barret Peery over his two years at
IHCC, allowing McKay extra opportunities to crash the glass up court several
times and produce easy baskets in the post.

Ironically, however, McKay choice to come to Iowa State comes after the school
ran out of scholarships after bringing in another major transfer from a Division
I school in Marshall transfer DeAndre Kane. That transfer took away a
scholarship from McKay's former IHCC teammate Amardi, who has since moved on to
the University of Oregon. McKay will have pay his own way for the upcoming
spring semester and plans on using the federal Pell grant as well as student
loans to help with that cost.

McKay told the Ames Tribune that the ISU coaching staff envisions using him
similarly to Royce White and Georges Niang, an inside-out athletic threat
capable of "creating a mismatch problem."

McKay joins Kane and former Northern Illinois standout Abdel Nader as players to
transfer to Iowa State. Kane will look to become an immediate force this season
while Nader and McKay both will have to sit out this season. Transfers have been
a big help to Hoiberg, who has guided Iowa State to the third round of the NCAA
Tournament each of the past two years thanks in large part to transfer players
like White (Minnesota), Korie Lucious (Michigan State) and Will Clyburn (Utah).

To follow Scott Jackson's Twitter feed, go to @stjack423

___ (c)2013 the Ottumwa Courier (Ottumwa, Iowa) Visit the Ottumwa Courier
(Ottumwa, Iowa) at www.ottumwacourier.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20131106-OT-Former-Warrior-McKay-chooses-Cyclones-after-transferring-from-Marque
tte-1106-20131106

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OT


                         Copyright 2013 Ottumwa Courier

                              300 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Grand Forks Herald (North Dakota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            February 20, 2015 Friday

EDITORIAL: Higher-ed board needs Hoffert's experience

BYLINE: Grand Forks Herald

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 587 words


Feb. 20--When choosing a person to serve on the North Dakota Board of Higher
Education, it helps if the candidate has experience. Alice Hoffert's experience
in both higher education and on high-level boards is exceptional.

Hoffert is one of three finalists for an open seat. Here is what Gov. Jack
Dalrymple -- who'll make the selection -- should know:

Hoffert worked at UND for 37 years, serving in a variety of administrative and
executive roles. The jobs gave her insight into key higher ed concerns. As UND's
director of financial aid, for example, she saw and responded to the challenges
families face in paying for college. As associate vice president for enrollment
management, she helped UND recover from the 1997 flood, overseeing an enrollment
growth from about 11,800 in 2001 to a then-record 14,700 in 2011.

Moreover, Hoffert not only holds bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees from
UND, but also an associate's degree from Lake Region Junior College. As
supporters have noted, she'd be the board's only community-college graduate -- a
vital constituency that also deserves representation on the board.

As for her board service, here is how Bruce Gjovig, CEO of the UND Center for
Innovation Foundation, describes her work in his nominating letter to the
selection committee:

"I serve on a foundation board that Dr. Hoffert chairs," Gjovig writes. "In my
40 years of being on scores of boards, she is easily one of the best board
chairs I have encountered -- ever."

Gjovig's endorsement brings up another point: When choosing a person to serve on
the board, it helps if the candidate has the support of his or her community.

The letters sent on Hoffert's behalf to the selection committee speak for
themselves:

"Alice is unselfish in being dedicated to making her life count for the benefit
of others," writes Earl Strinden, CEO emeritus of the UND Alumni Association.

Bob Boyd, UND vice president emeritus for student and outreach services, agrees:
"Her commitment to students is legendary," Boyd writes.

"During my tenure as vice president, I was always proud and amazed at her
advocacy for students. ... I especially appreciated and admired that her
advocacy for students was balanced with having high expectations of them. ...

"It should be obvious by now that I strongly endorse Dr. Hoffert for a position
on the North Dakota State Board of Higher Education."

Others who wrote to endorse Hoffert's candidacy include Grand Forks city and
nonprofit leaders, Chamber of Commerce executives and even the city's four
Republican Party district chairs.

Of course, Grand Forks' support of Hoffert's candidacy is important for another
reason. That's because when choosing a person to serve on the board in 2015, it
helps if the candidate is, in fact, from Grand Forks.

For if Hoffert is not selected, then the board could wind up lacking a member
with a Grand Forks tie for the first time in 64 years. That shouldn't happen on
a board that's meant to be broadly representative and geographically diverse.

"After Grant Shaft and Terry Hjelmstad retire on June 30, the other board
members have all been appointed since 2012," Gjovig points out in his letter.

"This is a young board that could utilize the seasoned higher education
knowledge of Dr. Hoffert." Here's hoping Gov. Dalrymple agrees and appoints
Hoffert to the board.

-- Tom Dennis for the Herald

___ (c)2015 the Grand Forks Herald (Grand Forks, N.D.) Visit the Grand Forks
Herald (Grand Forks, N.D.) at www.grandforksherald.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20150220-GF-EDITORIAL-Higher-ed-board-needs-Hoffert-s-experience-0220-20150220

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GF


                       Copyright 2015 Grand Forks Herald

                              301 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             August 25, 2017 Friday

Sichuan universities make adapting to college life easier

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 193 words


With the fall semester about to begin, universities in Sichuan province have
come up with innovative waysof welcoming freshmento suit their needs andhelp
them adapt to college life.

The new methods include posting information guides on social networks like Weibo
and WeChat, gathering freshmen's personal details using smartphone apps and
allowing them to select a dormitory online.

Apps have gradually become a common and effective way for universities in
Sichuan to simplify admission procedures. Sichuan University's app enables new
students to check their payment status, while teachers at Xihua University
evaluate students' performance on an app to select class monitors.

The new university house-choosing system -which takes about 15 seconds - was
launched on Tuesday at Chengdu University, according to the school's student
affairs department.

Besides the orientation and location of the dormitory rooms, lengthened beds for
students over 1.9 meters have been specifically requested via the online house-
choosing system at University of Electronic Science and Technology of China
since it was first used in early 2015.

Li Jiayue contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             April 15, 2014 Tuesday

Choosing a College Major: Some Things to Consider

LENGTH: 476  words

DATELINE: Washington


University of Potomac has issued the following news release:

Some people are born knowing what they want to be -- what they're meant to be --
when they grow up. For these people, choosing college major doesn't require a
second thought.

For others the choice is very difficult and often confusing. If you're not sure
what kind of career you'll enjoy and be successful in, deciding what course of
study to invest your time and money in won't be such a simple prospect.

When deciding on a major there are several factors you'll want to consider:

What you're passionate about and what you're good at. Frequently these two are
the same, but not always. Since your college major is expected to lead to your
life's work, you'll want to study something you enjoy and something you do well
at.

Career options. Sometimes a bachelor's degree in a particular subject doesn't
lead to an obvious career; this is especially true with liberal arts degrees.
When selecting a major, think about potential careers you may want to pursue and
how the degree may be useful--or not useful--in that pursuit.

Which schools offer the degree, their location and cost. If an online option is
available, the location of the school will not be an issue; however, you'll
still need to consider the cost of obtaining a degree, as well as the reputation
of the school as compared to other options.

Earning potential. The days when having any kind of bachelor's degree ensured a
well-paying job are long gone. We've all heard stories about Tier 1 University
graduates who can't find a job, despite an unblemished academic record and
extensive participation in extracurricular and volunteer activities. When you're
choosing a major, you'll need to consider what kind of career it will lead to
and if that career will support your future lifestyle.

Several surveys have recently been conducted to determine which college majors
rendered graduates most employable and most of these studies have obtained
similar results. According to a study released in May, 2013 by the Georgetown
University Center on Education and the Workforce, the following five majors have
the lowest unemployment rate:

Actuarial science
    Pharmacology
    Educational administration and supervision
    School student counseling
    Geological and Geophysics Engineering

The five majors with the highest unemployment are:

Linguistics and Comparative Language and Literature
    Psychology
    Architecture
    Educational Psychology
    Military Technologies

You can see the entire report here, and you also may want to check out
University of the Potomac, which offers both online and on-campus Bachelor's
degrees that lead to well-paying jobs, including accounting, government contract
management and digital forensics. If you'd like to find out more, please contact
us.

For more information please visit: http://www.potomac.edu

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Kokomo Tribune (Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 13, 2012 Saturday

More Howard County residents choosing WGU Indiana

BYLINE: Lindsey Ziliak, Kokomo Tribune, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 478 words


Oct. 13--Sixty-two percent more Howard County adults enrolled in the online
Western Governors University Indiana this year, according to data provided by
the institution.

From September 2011 to September 2012, the WGU student population in Howard
County grew from 21 to 34 students.

In that same time frame, total student enrollment grew by about 50 percent,
officials said.

Enrollment was just above 1,000 students in May 2011. At that time, 13 students
from Howard County attended the school.

The university enrolled 3,000 students this year, a milestone for WGU.

"The overwhelming success of WGU Indiana over such a short period shows that
many adult Hoosiers are searching for a way to complete their college education
while balancing family life and careers," Gov. Mitch Daniels said in a press
release.

Daniels established WGU Indiana by executive order June 11, 2010, with a mission
of expanding access to affordable higher education.

According to the Lumina Foundation, Indiana has 740,000 adults who have some
college education but no degree.

"As I have traveled to every corner of this state, I have been reminded of the
challenges working adults have in pursuing an affordable college degree," WGU
Indiana Chancellor Allison Barber said. "The need is great... So, the good news
is that 3,000 students have already discovered that we're here to help them
finish what they started years ago."

Barber said WGU has become a leading educator of science, technology,
engineering and math teachers in rural communities across the state.

The college is attractive because adults can get their degree online from the
comfort of their home, Barber said.

"So many working adults just can't make the drive to a campus," she said.

Barber said the university also ranks in the top five in the state for number of
students enrolled in its master of business administration program.

The chancellor said WGU has grown faster than she expected.

"It's exciting," she said. "It means there's a need we're meeting."

She attributed the growth mostly to word-of-mouth recommendations from other
students.

Students share their success stories with friends and family members, and soon
those people become interested in the school, she said.

Barber talked about one student who gets up at 4 a.m. every day to do school
work from home because she's a single parent and doesn't want to miss her son's
after-school activities.

Staff members share those success stories when they travel the state spreading
the word about the online university.

Barber said they travel 1,000 miles per month speaking at schools, hospitals and
rotary clubs.

They tell the story of WGU, and people are hearing it, she said.

"It's an option so many adults need and want," she said.

___ (c)2012 the Kokomo Tribune (Kokomo, Ind.) Visit the Kokomo Tribune (Kokomo,
Ind.) at www.kokomotribune.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121013-KO-More-Howard-County-residents-choosing
-WGU-Indiana-1013-20121013

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KO


                         Copyright 2012 Kokomo Tribune

                              304 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             July 24, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Six tips to choose the best sixth form

BYLINE: DAVID WHINYATES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 595 words


HERE are so many factors to consider when choosing a sixth form.

T[#x201a]e courses, the location, the teachers and, of course, the college
itself. You will be spending two years of your life at sixth form and each
choice may be just as important as the other. So, if you want some help deciding
which sixth form is right for you, take a look at six tips from Cadbury College:
1. MAKE A "PROS & CONS" LIST GET a piece of paper and write down the pros and
cons of each place you've applied to. [#x201a]is will help you think about the
positives and negatives associated with di+erent sixth forms and colleges.

2. VISIT DIFFERENT SIXTH FORMS AND COLLEGES WE can't stress how important this
is! Make sure you visit the di+erent sixth forms and colleges you have applied
to and get a feel for the environment, meet some of the teachers and talk to
current students.

Here are some factors to consider during your visit: Is it somewhere you will
feel ¦comfortable and enjoy spending time? Is it easy for you to get to, or ¦are
you prepared to travel? Is it a college just for people of ¦your own age? Are
there older or younger students, or both? Do you want a smaller,
¦community-based sixth form college where everyone knows each other (like
Cadbury College), or a bigger place with lots of di+erent sites? 3. DO YOUR
RESEAR CH WHILE choosing a place to study A-levels you will probably have done
some research into the background of the sixth form, such as where it ranks in
league tables, its Ofsted report or its pass rates. But also remember to
research: [#x201a]e sort of support available ¦to students, including any
nancial support, student services and careers advice.

Where students progress to - universities, degree courses and employers.

[#x201a]e library, IT facilities and ¦the range of learning resources available.

[#x201a]e di+erent sports, clubs and ¦societies you can join.

Finally, make sure you get the combination of courses that you want to study. If
you are going to spend two years taking a subject at A-level, it's so important
to pick subjects you will enjoy - and not because they are the only ones
available on the timetable.

4. ASK AROUND YOU may take a look at di+erent review sites online to see what
people are saying about the college you want to go to. But there really is only
one way to nd out what a sixth form is like, and that is to ask the students.

Talk to people who go to the sixth form and also talk to students on open days
Check out the di+erent reasons our students choose to study with us here:
http://www.cadcol.ac.uk/index.php/applying/why-choose-cadbury.

5? ARE YOU READY FOR A CHANGE? DECIDE if you are ready to make a change, and
what the benets will be for you.

If you stay at your school sixth form, you will know everyone and everyone will
know you (including the teachers). Going to a new place provides a fresh start,
the chance to be di+erent and try something new.

cadbury. College is a specialist sixth form college, which means we are bigger
than a school sixth form and can o+er a wider variety of courses at AS and A2 as
well as advanced vocational courses that will take you to university.

6? GO WITH YOUR GUT FEELING YOU may feel that this tip contradicts a lot of what
we've said, but it's important.

[#x201a]is is when you base your decision on how you feel right from the very
start.

If you feel happy, enthusiastic and energised.... we needn't say any more!

Choosing a sixth form is a big decision, so hopefully our tips will help you
make the right one.

If you want to speak to anyone ¦at Cadbury College, we're available on twitter
@cadburycollege or on facebook.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2014 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             India Investment News

                       October 7, 2013 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Knowledge First Financial: A Generational Divide: New Research Shows Parents and
Young Adults Differ on the Importance of Affordability when it Comes to Choosing
a University or College.

LENGTH: 474  words


New Delhi, Oct. 7 -- Affordability is a top decision maker for 34 per cent of
parents surveyed, in contrast to only 13 per cent of students, when it comes to
choosing a post-secondary education path for their children. This is one
conclusion found by a new study commissioned by Knowledge First Financial and
conducted by Ipsos Reid of Canadian high school/post-secondary school students
and parents. Forty-three per cent of students disagree with parents, placing
high emphasis on a program's ability to fit their academic interests.



The generational divide is also evident when it comes to environment. Students
say campus experience is one of their top three reasons for choosing their dream
school, whereas parents rank campus experience as the least important.

Out of six possible choices, a large majority of parents opted for
affordability, best programs (29 per cent) and quality teaching staff (17 per
cent), over other choices like campus experience and extracurricular offerings -
suggesting that top value for dollar is significant.

"For parents, affordability is certainly top of mind given that many of today's
students rely on their families for support through post-secondary education,
and even after," said George Hopkinson, president and CEO at Knowledge First
Financial. "One way that parents can ease the burden of post-secondary education
costs is by starting an RESP for their children as early as possible."

"We understand that parents want the best for their children, whether it is
quality teachers, a top-notch program, or financial stability upon graduation,"
continued Hopkinson. "A registered education savings plan gives students and
parents that extra boost to make these opportunities a reality."

Post-graduate student in University of Toronto's Aerospace Studies program,
Christopher Lee agrees. "The best programs can really set you apart from the
norm: the core program content and teaching staff helps prepare students for the
workforce and hopefully gives them an edge above other new grads once they start
their careers. There's also a sense of pride in studying alongside top students,
not to mention a certain competitiveness that pushes one to excel."

Lee also explained that a top program provides a better opportunity to connect
with a solid alumni network, which can help to develop a graduate's career and
maybe even result in landing ones first job.

According to the survey, 53 per cent of high school students, 56 per cent of
post-secondary students and 60 per cent of parents agree that the key benefit to
having personal savings or an RESP is that the added funds allow them to study
full-time, instead of part-time.

Even with cost as a concern, a large majority of parents and students alike
agree that post-secondary education is worth the investment, citing it as a
requirement for today's job market.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                          September 14, 2016 Wednesday

Choosing an NS vocation - with help from dad and uncles;
New enlistment initiative provides new way for dads to share experiences with
their sons

BYLINE: Fabian Koh

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 580 words


Fathers have found an unprecedented role in the new initiative to let future
national servicemen indicate their vocational interests, as the move gives fresh
impetus to share their knowledge and experiences with their sons.

Starting November, pre-enlistees can make their vocational interests known
during their medical check-up - choosing from 33 vocations.

On Sunday, the Central Manpower Base (CMPB) released on its website 19 videos
and a handbook with detailed write-ups on these vocations.

The initiative presents "an opportunity" for more conversation about NS between
fathers and sons, said defence analyst Ho Shu Huang from the S. Rajaratnam
School of International Studies.

"While it does come down to each family's dynamics, there might be more to talk
about as vocational choices now need to be indicated and decisions therefore
made."

FATHERS AND SONS

All sons look up to their dads, and I look up to mine, too. My dad was in
Guards. I heard it is quite tough.

JORDAN LOW, first-year Anderson Junior College student.

While a father's NS vocation experience might be different and outdated, such a
conversation might lead to others about NS in general, he said.

Some sons are looking to their fathers in other ways to make the decision about
vocations.

First-year Anderson Junior College student Jordan Low, 17, who will be going for
his medical screening on Nov 11, hopes to follow in his father's footsteps.

"All sons look up to their dads, and I look up to mine, too. My dad was in
Guards. I heard it is quite tough."

While he says he does not have much knowledge about the various vocations, he
intends to go online to find out.

"I'll ask my seniors who are already in the army, as their information will be
the most raw and current.

" But I'll also speak to my dad and uncles for advice."

His father Thomas Low, 47, said that while he tells his son about his own NS
days, he does not know what has changed since.

The regional service director, who did his 21/2-year stint from 1990, said: "I
can share my experiences with him, and it could have an impact on his vocational
choices."

Real estate salesman Bernard Wu, 45, also believes the new initiative is "worth
exploring".

He entered NS in 1993 and tells his son, first-year Hwa Chong Junior College
student Brandon, about his experiences.

Seventeen-year-old Brandon said: "I would prefer to go to a vocation which is
more physical. I don't want to be a clerk."

Puay Sam Yu, 17, a first-year student at Hwa Chong Junior College, knows what he
wants to avoid choosing for his NS stint.

"Just steer clear of the waters can already," he said with a laugh.

He would prefer either the air force, or the infantry, which he has heard is
where most people go.

"I will ask my dad and uncles for their opinion. But I think it would have
changed quite a bit from their time. Nonetheless, it's good to have their
advice."

His father, regional sales director Puay Eng Chuan, 49, thinks NS was very
different in his days.

"It is different now with more welfare and professional training."

Mr Puay, who entered NS in 1986 and later became an infantry officer, agreed
that sharing his experiences with his son is a bonding opportunity.

His son, who has not yet received the call-up letter for his medical screening,
said: "His stories would affect my decision, as the general job scope for most
vocations shouldn't have changed too much."

The videos and the handbook on the CMPB website can be found at
www.cmpb.gov.sg/ns-vocations.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: It may have been two to three decades since many dads did their stint,
and many things may have changed since, but the general consensus is that their
experiences will still be useful for their sons who are to be enlisted.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2016 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 997 DOCUMENTS


             Journal Record Legislative Report (Oklahoma City, OK)

                              July 9, 2007 Monday

Report shows more college graduates staying in Oklahoma

BYLINE: Marie Price

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 367  words


About 90 percent of Oklahoma resident college graduates who earned bachelor's
degrees in 2004-2005 had in-state jobs a year later, according to a new report
from the Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education.

This compares with only 72 percent of those who earned bachelor's degrees in
2000-2001 who were employed within Oklahoma five years later.

More students who earn doctoral and professional degrees are also choosing to
stay in Oklahoma.

"These results reflect our efforts to combine our thriving economy, cutting-edge
science and technology and academic institutions to keep Oklahoma's best
resource, its people, in the state," said higher education Chancellor Glen
Johnson.

Among Oklahoma resident graduates of 1999-2000 and 1998-1999, only 65 percent
worked in Oklahoma five years later.

About 72 percent of resident graduates who earned doctoral degrees in 2000-2001
had jobs in Oklahoma five years later, compared with 67 percent of 1999-2000
graduates and 56 percent of those who earned doctorates in 1998-1999.

Graduates from out of state are also choosing jobs in Oklahoma.

Among 2004-2005 graduates who earned bachelor's degrees at Oklahoma colleges and
universities, 62 percent remained in Oklahoma a year later, with 39 percent of
2000-2001 graduates still in the state five years later.

When it comes to all bachelor's degree recipients, resident and nonresidents, 66
percent of 2000-2001 graduates were still in Oklahoma five years later.

More of those who earned certificates (81 percent) and associate degrees (78
percent) remained in Oklahoma after five years than those who earned master's
degrees (62 percent), professional degrees (61 percent) and doctoral degrees (53
percent).

Oklahoma graduates who received bachelor's degrees in 2000-2001 earned an
average of $37,747 annually five years later. This was an increase of more than
$2,100 over last year's report.

Oklahoma graduates with computer science, engineering and other technical
degrees earned the highest average salaries.

The graduate employment data came from the latest Employment Outcomes Report,
compiled through research conducted by the state regents, Oklahoma Employment
Security Commission and Oklahoma Tax Commission.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Gold Coast Bulletin (Australia)

                             March 25, 2011 Friday
                                B - Main Edition

MySchool site ignored

BYLINE: MELINDA SIEGMEIER

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 409  words


PARENTS are not using the controversial MySchool website for guidance when it
comes to choosing their child's new school, a survey has found.

The survey of more than 2000 Queensland parents, including Gold Coasters,
released yesterday found that parents were more interested in what other
families had to say than using the site to dig up dirt on potential schools.

It's the first What Parents Want survey commissioned by Independent Schools
Queensland since 2006.

Queensland Teachers Union president Steve Ryan said it was pleasing to hear
parents were not paying attention to the MySchool website.

``The last site parents should rely on for accurate information is MySchool as
it is full of glaring inaccuracies,'' he said.

``We've known for some time parents weren't using it.

``MySchool is one of those things that seems like a good idea but need a lot of
work.''

The survey conducted at 84 schools, 11 of which were on the Gold Coast, said
that comparison by friends and colleagues, speaking with parents with children
at a school and school open days were the top methods of choosing schools.

Accessing the MySchool website ranked 8th out of 14 also behind pamphlets,
church groups and schools' individual websites.

Cameron Scott, a spokesman for Minister for School Education, Early Childhood
and Youth Peter Garrett, said the Federal Government expected parents to use a
variety of sources to make a well-rounded decision about education and the
MySchool's website was a wonderful addition to give them information they had
not previously had access to.

He said it should be noted the survey was only undertaken a few months after the
original MySchool website was introduced.

``People want more information and transparency on education and the
467,000-plus site visits to MySchool 2.0 shows that they are using the website
to help inform debates and conversations with teachers and principals about
education,'' Mr Scott said.

Executive director of Independent Schools Queensland David Robertson said school
choice was one of the most important decisions any parent had to make.

Gold Coast schools that took part in the survey include AB Paterson College,
Silkwood School, Australian Industry Trade College, Somerset College, Hillcrest
Christian College, St Hilda's College, Kings Christian College, The Southport
School, Queensland Independent College, Trinity Lutheran College, Saint
Stephen's College.

Factors in school choices explained in goldcoast.com.au

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GCB


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 5, 2012 Wednesday

Wave of U.S. students studying in China

BYLINE: By Jason Sweeney jsweeney@bayareanewsgroup.com

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 733 words


When classes begin at Peking University this month, Alamo resident Melissa
Kidson will be there, ready to learn.

The California girl may not have a lot of cultural heritage in common with the
other students, but she speaks their language.

For the past year, Kidson and 130 other international students have attended the
school's Chinese language immersion program, preparing to begin college.

The Contra Costa teen is part of a trend of more Americans studying abroad, with
a growing number choosing China. And, with more scholarships being offered by
China and the U.S., the figures are expected to rise fast.

"I think it will be a challenge" taking college courses there, said Kidson, 18.
"But I'm really excited to be pursuing something I'm passionate about."

The number of Americans going to foreign colleges tripled in the past two
decades, according to a 2011 report by the Institute of International Education.
In 2009-10, there were 270,604 Americans in foreign colleges. China was the
fifth-most-popular destination, with 5.1 percent of the Americans choosing
schools there.

Educators say students like Kidson are on the crest of a wave.

"U.S. students are increasingly aware of the need to obtain more practical
skills, foreign language skills and cultural experiences that ... help them be
more competitive for their careers. China provides the perfect opportunity for
that," said Rajika Bhandari, the Institute of International Education's deputy
vice president for research and evaluation.

Unlike Kidson, who will attend Peking University full time, most Americans study
abroad for a semester or less. Only 3.9 percent of the total stay a year or
more.

But Kidson is dedicated to the language and committed to doing all her college
work in China. She discovered her love for the language as a freshman at
Dougherty Valley High School in San Ramon. Bored after one month of French, she
begged Mandarin teacher Jennifer Shuen to let her switch.

"I thought it was too late," Shuen said. "I told her that she needed to work
hard and make up for lost time."

Kidson did work hard, meeting Shuen during lunch to get caught up. Shuen said
Kidson also impressed her by writing her characters over and over 250 times to
get them down.

Although there are far more Chinese students in the U.S. than American students
in China, more Americans every year are choosing China as a study abroad
destination. There were 157,558 Chinese students in American colleges last year
and 13,910 Americans studying in China in the 2009-10 school year. Only about
1,400 Americans were studying in China in 1995.

With the aid of scholarships, the numbers are expect to jump.

Both the Chinese and U.S. governments are pushing for more Americans to study in
China, Bhandari said. The China Scholarship Council is offering 25,000
scholarships to foreign students, to increase to 50,000 in 2015. And the Obama
administration is trying to increase the number of Americans in China through
its "100,000 Strong" initiative. The Chinese government has committed to 10,000
"Bridge Scholarships" for U.S. students to study in China through that
initiative.

And, "with higher education becoming more expensive in the Western world,
affordability is a big factor," Bhandari added.

Tuition at Peking University is a relative bargain at $3,900 a year, said
Melissa's father, Dan Kidson. Plus, Melissa will live for free with a Chinese
family in exchange for helping their daughter learn English.

But Melissa's choice of China wasn't about the bargain. She plans to major in
film and hopes to work in the growing Chinese film industry, and perhaps serve
as a go-between to filmmakers in Hollywood.

"She's pursuing her passion," Dan Kidson said. "She loves the language."

Chinese can be difficult for students who have only been exposed to Western
languages. They must be good listeners, said Shuen, Melissa's former Mandarin
teacher. Unlike Western languages, Chinese is tonal and word meanings change
with changes in tone.

Also, the language doesn't use a phonetic alphabet. Characters are memorized
instead of sounded out. To read a Chinese newspaper requires knowledge of about
3,000 characters.

Despite the challenges, Shuen is confident Kidson will be successful.

"She has a very bright future," Shuen said. "We need people who speak Chinese.
It's a critical language."

Contact Jason Sweeney at 925-847-2123. Follow him atTwitter.com/jason_sweeney .

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Melissa Kidson of Pleasanton on a hike in the city of ShiJiaZhuang in
the HeBei province, China, while she was attending an immersion language class
at Peking University in Beijing this past school year. (Photo courtesy of
Melissa Kidson)
Melissa Kidson, 18, of Alamo, is photographed in the Dougherty Valley High
School classroom where she learned to speak Mandarin Chinese, in San Ramon,
Calif., on Wednesday, Aug. 22, 2012. She is now going to college in Beijing,
China, where she plans to study film. (Jim Stevens/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             June 16, 2015 Tuesday

West Virginia: Davis & Elkins Awards Highlands Scholarships to Harman Students

LENGTH: 209  words

DATELINE: Charleston


Davis & Elkins College, The state of West Virginia has issued the following news
release:

Harman High School seniors Casey Elza and Alisa Snyder received Highlands
Scholarships to Davis & Elkins College during graduation ceremonies at the high
school on Saturday. Initiated with the start of the 2008-2009 academic year, the
Highlands Scholar program offers a significant tuition discount to full-time
freshman students attending Davis & Elkins College from the seven counties
surrounding the campus. This year the program was expanded to include all 55
West Virginia counties. Students must earn a cumulative GPA of 2.5 or higher
upon high school graduation. Those students receive $14,000 if choosing to live
on campus or $11,000 if choosing to commute for a total four-year scholarship of
$56,000 for on campus or $44,000 for commuters. For more information about the
Highlands Scholar program, contact the Office of Admission at 304-637-1230. The
fall 2015 semester begins August 21 with the arrival of new students and the
kickoff of Orientation Weekend. Fall classes begin August 24. For more
information, please visit www.dewv.edu.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Mercury (South Africa)

                          February 26, 2014 Wednesday
                                   E1 Edition

Mapping your future outside the classroom

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 897 words


You might think choosing a career is simple. Wrong. It's a multi-step process
that involves learning about yourself and the occupation you're considering -
and preparing yourself for what's out there in the world.

There are other misconceptions, including that "a career counsellor can tell me
what occupation to pick", or that "once I choose a career I'll be stuck with
it", or even "if I change careers, my skills will go to waste".

In 10 Myths About Choosing a Career, Dawn McKay says various factors should be
considered before you make this all-important choice. Many people, she writes,
also believe they can't make a living from their hobby.

"Says who? It makes perfect sense to choose a career related to what you enjoy
doing in your spare time. In addition, people tend to become very skilled in
their hobbies, even though most of the skill is gained informally."

As you head towards the end of your school years, there's plenty of groundwork
to lay as you decide on your future after the classroom. Obviously, doing well
in your exams is crucial. If you're planning on some form of tertiary education,
excellent marks will help with admission to whatever university or college
you're applying to. If you're still uncertain, and in a panic about what path to
follow, do serious research.

Decide what your interests are, where your skills and strengths lie. What makes
you happiest? Is there any possible interest that can be explored and turned
into a career?

It's important to remember that while salary is important, it isn't the only
factor you should look at when choosing your occupation.

"Countless surveys have shown that money doesn't necessarily lead to job
satisfaction. For many people, enjoying what they do at work is much more
important," says McKay.

It's also vital that before any career choice is made, you first learn about
yourself. Your values, interests and skills, combined with certain personality
traits, will make some careers especially suitable for you and others
inappropriate. You can use self-assessment tools, or career tests, to gather
this information and generate a list of jobs that would suit you.

Career guidance counsellors are usually available at high schools and many other
institutions, including Varsity College, which offers a free career advisory
service to all prospective students. Alternatively, the University of
KwaZulu-Natal's student counselling centre can administer these tests, or you
can also do aptitude tests available on the internet, eg, www.questcareer.com
/career-assessment-research.

Look over the lists of occupations generated through these tests, and whittle
them down to between five and 10 choices. Circle occupations you may have
considered previously, and that you find appealing. Write these down on a
separate list titled "Occupations to Explore". For each, check out the job
description, educational and other requirements, job outlook, advancement
opportunities, and earnings.

As you've progressed through high school, so you've been slowly but steadily
developing as an individual, gaining new insights, talents, abilities, and
self-awareness. You've also being expanding your social skills, your own brand:
through the technology of digital media, you should already have put in place
your personality and psyche stamp, garnered a network of contacts, delved into
university courses and other career options.

Reassess these when you're looking at your list of potential occupations, and
try to marry the two. Read avidly about your specific fields of interest,
generate as much knowledge and information as possible on the subjects.

Careerguidance.com says future job decisions are not one-off affairs.

"Good career choices are made as you mature personally and develop career
maturity - they do not necessarily happen simultaneously. Some people have a
level of career maturity and insight allowing them to make sound career choices
in their mid-teens, while others might make them some time later. Many people
try out various options before finding out their real career niche in midlife."

Look at South Africa's Raymond Ackerman: after being fired from Checkers, he
started the retail chain Pick n Pay.

Under Ackerman's leadership, Pick n Pay has grown from four stores in Cape Town
to one of the largest retail chains in Africa, and has a turnover of R37
billion. He stepped down from his directorship in 2010. Then there's Herman
Mashaba, who created the cosmetics brand Black Like Me.

He started by selling his products from his car boot, and his business
mushroomed into the multimillion-rand enterprise it is today. Recently he also
started operations in the UK.

And our own Mark Shuttleworth: he did his BSc degree in finance and information
systems at UCT, became involved in the installation of the first residential
internet connections at the university, and made history by becoming only the
second self-funded space tourist, and the first South African in space. This
entrepreneur is now a billionaire.

Making the right choice requires knowledge of yourself (your aptitudes,
personality, interests, and values), of the world of work and what's marketable,
and an ability to weigh up the options and to make an optimum decision.

And finally, here's some inspiration from American author Shelly Branch: "Be
true to what naturally interests you - and be brave enough to turn an obsession
into a profession."

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NM


                Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 20, 2009 Friday

ON COLLEGE: Picking a major is personal preference

BYLINE: By Jason Katz Daily News columnist

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 431 words


Q: I am going to begin college next fall and my parents think I should major in
the liberal arts such as English or history. However, I am more interested in
something like accounting. What do you think I should do?

A: Choosing a major depends on personal preference. Almost any college major can
be stimulating and lead to good career/graduate school options.

So, if you are choosing between something in the liberal arts such as English or
history or something more specialized such as accounting, there really is no
right or wrong major; it simply depends on where your interests lie and what
your post-college plans are. In other words, there are pros and cons to both
types of majors.

If you major in accounting, you may have a more obvious career path than if you
major in English or history   you will most likely become an accountant. If you
already know that you really want to be an accountant, then majoring in
accounting may be a good choice for you. However, career choices other than
becoming an accountant may be somewhat limited, unless you attend graduate
school.

If you major in English or history, you may not have such an obvious career path
(unless you want to teach English or history) as you would if you major in
accounting. However, you will learn valuable critical thinking skills that are
important in many lines of work.

Additionally, many college students end up changing their major during the
course of their college careers because it is hard to know exactly what you are
interested in academically when you are 17 or 18 years old.

Many college students take courses in different disciplines during the beginning
of their college careers to help them sample what is out there. You will
probably be able to make a much wiser choice regarding your major after you have
taken an accounting course, an English course, a history course and whatever
other courses sound interesting to you. Otherwise you are just making judgments
based on reading course descriptions, which, of course, barely scratch the
surface.

Therefore, my best advice is to major in what interests you the most and will
lead to the type of career or graduate school you are interested in upon
graduation. However, try to take a wide variety of courses your freshman year
and don't be afraid to switch majors if you discover that you are actually much
more fascinated by anthropology than accounting.

Jason Katz is an independent college counselor and is founder of JKatz College
Counseling. He works with students throughout the Bay Area and beyond. E-mail
Katz at jkatz@ jkatzcollegecounseling.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Journal Record (Oklahoma City, OK)

                              July 9, 2007 Monday

Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education report: More college grads stay in
state

BYLINE: Marie Price

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 367  words


About 90 percent of Oklahoma resident college graduates who earned bachelor's
degrees in 2004-2005 had in-state jobs a year later, according to a new report
from the Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education.

This compares with only 72 percent of those who earned bachelor's degrees in
2000-2001 who were employed within Oklahoma five years later.

More students who earn doctoral and professional degrees are also choosing to
stay in Oklahoma.

"These results reflect our efforts to combine our thriving economy, cutting-edge
science and technology and academic institutions to keep Oklahoma's best
resource, its people, in the state," said higher education Chancellor Glen
Johnson.

Among Oklahoma resident graduates of 1999-2000 and 1998-1999, only 65 percent
worked in Oklahoma five years later.

About 72 percent of resident graduates who earned doctoral degrees in 2000-2001
had jobs in Oklahoma five years later, compared with 67 percent of 1999-2000
graduates and 56 percent of those who earned doctorates in 1998-1999.

Graduates from out of state are also choosing jobs in Oklahoma.

Among 2004-2005 graduates who earned bachelor's degrees at Oklahoma colleges and
universities, 62 percent remained in Oklahoma a year later, with 39 percent of
2000-2001 graduates still in the state five years later.

When it comes to all bachelor's degree recipients, resident and nonresidents, 66
percent of 2000-2001 graduates were still in Oklahoma five years later.

More of those who earned certificates (81 percent) and associate degrees (78
percent) remained in Oklahoma after five years than those who earned master's
degrees (62 percent), professional degrees (61 percent) and doctoral degrees (53
percent).

Oklahoma graduates who received bachelor's degrees in 2000-2001 earned an
average of $37,747 annually five years later. This was an increase of more than
$2,100 over last year's report.

Oklahoma graduates with computer science, engineering and other technical
degrees earned the highest average salaries.

The graduate employment data came from the latest Employment Outcomes Report,
compiled through research conducted by the state regents, Oklahoma Employment
Security Commission and Oklahoma Tax Commission.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 17, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Don't invade student privacy

BYLINE: David Shi

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 378 words


The most difficult choices in public policy mimic the most difficult choices in
life. Choosing between good and evil is easy; choosing one good over another is
not.

This is the real issue behind the intense debate over the Education Department's
proposal to require colleges to report individual student record data rather
than aggregated totals, as is now done.

Opponents, including most private colleges and universities, agree that greater
transparency is a good thing. However, the proposed database would put at risk
fundamental privacy rights, especially the right of students to control their
academic records -- a federally protected right since 1972.

Most of the nation agrees with us: 62% in a recent national survey opposed
requiring colleges to report individual student data to the government. Last
spring, the House voted to prohibit the Education Department from creating such
a database because of privacy concerns. That vote occurred before startling
revelations that several federal databases had been compromised, including the
department's own student loan system.

Advocates of a new database ignore the wealth of data already available online
from colleges, such as Furman University, and from the government. Prospective
students have access to graduation and retention rates, financial aid data,
estimated student expenses, degrees awarded and much more. Yet the department
has done little to make this data user-friendly. In 2004, the National
Association of Independent Colleges and Universities proposed a better way to do
that, but the plan was met with silence.

We oppose a new individual tracking system because we fear a larger, more
intrusive government bureaucracy. Greater transparency and accountability in
higher education can be achieved without threatening privacy. To their credit,
some proponents of a student unit-record system are willing to try to address
our concerns. Yet more needs to be done. My colleagues and I are eager to work
with the department to find ways for colleges to provide more useful and
accessible data for applicants while protecting parents' and students'
fundamental privacy rights.

---

David Shi is president of Furman University and chairman of the National
Association of Independent Colleges and Universities.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 20, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Home birthing versus the maternity ward;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 773 words


Sir, It is important to debunk some of the myths that Melanie Reid perpetuates
about home births and the "sandal-wearing" women who, she says, choose them
(Opinion, April 16). In areas of the UK where home birth is properly resourced
and where midwives can offer a genuine choice of home birth, it then starts to
become less of an exception. Indeed, women from all walks of life are positively
choosing to have their baby at home.

The Royal College of Midwives knows of one deprived inner-city area, Southwark,
where home birth is now the rule rather than the exception among a group of
women accessing their local service. These women are not turning their backs on
modern medicine but are choosing home birth in the knowledge that their midwife
is more than competent to support them to give birth in familiar surroundings,
is trained and equipped to cope with any problems that should arise, and can
ensure rapid access to those services only available in hospital, if these are
required.

In Bridgend, the home birth rate is 24 per cent; in Torbay it is 12 per cent;
and St Mary's NHS Trust, London, has a 27 per cent home birth rate. These areas
show the potential for ensuring that this safe option for birth is much more
widely available.

PROFESSOR CATHY WARWICK General Secretary Royal College of Midwives

Sir, In my experience, modern home birth mothers are not doing it for fashion or
some need to get back to nature. I was unfortunate enough to have pre-eclampsia
for both my children, born in different hospitals in the past two years, and for
obvious reasons was not offered - nor wanted - a home birth due to the
complications. However, as a result, I was placed in hospital for many weeks,
doing nothing but watch the chaos that is today's maternity unit. In both
hospitals the doctors and nurses were excellent and caring, but were simply
inundated with too many mothers and not enough space to cope with them. Mothers
were not able to be given any space during early labour and were lucky to have a
private room at the point of birth. There was no room for partners, and
therefore early labour women were often left by themselves and occasionally
checked during the night.

First-time mothers were often terrified; I had to spend much of my strength
trying to remain silent during labour as only a thin curtain separated me from
five other mothers trying to get to sleep. The home birth mothers I know had
experienced this situation, often having to argue with midwives that they were
about to give birth in the next five minutes (correctly, on the part of the
patient). However, at home they could walk around, give themselves gas and air
when they needed it rather than when a nurse had time, get privacy, and above
all feel like they had someone there they could talk to if they needed it.

To label all women who give birth at home as "spoilt and complacent" is
insulting for those women who have had to think long and hard over what they
want and the reality of today's overstretched hospitals.

JO PERRIDGE Thatcham, Berks

Sir, Rather than try to turn childbirth into a medically safe but often
emotionally void process we should, in low-risk mothers and particularly second
and subsequent births, promote the benefits of a gentle birth in a relaxed
environment with constant support.

In most straightforward cases women can manage without the wonderful things that
a hospital offers, such as isolation instead of family warmth, inadequate
nutrition instead of home cooking, unhygienic wards and infection rather than
the mother's own bed and bath.

Assisted deliveries and c-section rates (now 30 per cent in some parts of the
country) are halved with a planned home birth. We should give women the
confidence in their ability to give birth naturally rather than stigmatise and
standardise the role that we are put on this Earth to do best.

LUCY JACKSON Latimer, Bucks Sir, That home births are not mainstream
demonstrates just how far pregnancy and birth have been medicalised. I am all
for intervention when it is warranted but to demand hospital care when there is
no need seems to be the "spoilt and complacent attitude". It is about knowing
the difference between gratuitous and lifesaving medical intervention.

CATE VARNON London SE1 Sir, As the mother of a baby who died aged two days some
years ago, I am only thankful that this occurred in a modern maternity hospital,
where my daughter had the best chance of survival when things had gone
disastrously wrong during the final stages of childbirth.

How would I have coped with the guilt if this quite unexpected tragedy had
happened at home? STEPHANIE ROBBINS Cirencester, Glos

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                             March 02, 2009 Monday

2-year trend leads to healthy Heartland gains Spring enrollment just short of
5,000

BYLINE: By Michele Steinbacher;msteinbacher@pantagraph.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 398 words


NORMAL - Heartland Community College's record spring enrollment, just shy of
5,000 students, reflects a broader trend: More students are choosing two-year
campuses.

Some higher education leaders say a tight economy is a factor, and the continued
recession could add fuel to that growth.

Heartland trustees recently learned the 4,906 students enrolled for credit
courses this spring at the Normal campus represent a nearly 8 percent increase
over last year's 4,556. That's a significant figure, given the last two spring
semesters saw 0.5 and 3 percent increases, and just three years ago spring
enrollment decreased 2 percent.

And last week, the Illinois Community College Board released statewide figures
showing 362,500 students are enrolled in Illinois community colleges this
spring, an overall 3 percent increase.

State board spokesman Steve Morse said some enrollment jumps were as high as 20
to 30 percent, such as at Prairie State College in Cook County and Southeastern
College in Harrisburg.

"When the economy is tanking, we do see a significant increase in people
attending community college," he said. In some cases, people have lost jobs and
are enrolling; others are employed but want more job security so take classes to
improve skills, he said.

Meanwhile another trend continues across the state, and even more so at
Heartland.

Morse said as enrollment grows, so does the fact that even more students are
choosing full-time schedules. The Illinois community colleges'
full-time-equivalent figure <\ determined by dividing the number of courses
enrolled by 15 - went up more than 4 percent this spring, beating a previous
record set in 2004, he said.

It's very much on the rise at Heartland as well, said Kathleen Collins,
Heartland's student services dean.

"Our enrollment reflects we have a traditional age group that continues to take
full-time loads," she said.

Heartland's full-time equivalent number this spring jumped 9 percent from spring
2008. And among its students, 17- to 20-year-olds now represent more than 40
percent of enrollment.

Heartland's and the Illinois Community College Board's figures are based on head
counts made on the 10th day of classes.

On the Net: www.iccb.org

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2009 The Pantagraph

                              317 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                           February 23, 2013 Saturday

Local officials: Scorecard offers hits, errors

BYLINE: STACEY BECKER TH staff writer * sbecker@wcinet.com

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 549 words


A new online tool will help people compare colleges by affordability and value.

In his State of the Union address, President Barack Obama said the "College
Scorecard" is based on simple criteria to determine "where you can get the most
bang for your educational buck."

Scorecards, designed by the U.S. Department of Education, will have data updated
periodically.

Local officials shared their thoughts with the TH on the College Scorecard:

"¢ "We respect what the federal government is attempting to do here with
simplifying the process of choosing college. Families have to be absolutely
careful when using the College Scorecard" since the data is old. - Tim Kremer,
dean of student financial planning at the University of Dubuque.

"¢ "By far, the greatest strength is easy access to useful comparative
information about graduation rates, loan default rates and average borrowing.
The College Scorecard has some weaknesses such as the data may be dated. In
addition, some of the data is based on averages. Many students will experience
financial situations that are better than average and some will experience those
that are worse than average. By working directly with a school, prospective
students can understand the reality of their individual financial situation and
how financial aid can assist them with college costs." - Steve Seeman, financial
aid director at Emmaus Bible College.

"¢ "While we appreciate the transparency that the administration is attempting
to convey, the College Scorecard does not capture the whole college experience.
Choosing a college cannot be based solely on the simple criteria that the
scorecard uses." - Amy Norton, director of financial aid at Clarke University.

"¢ "One of the benefits of the College Scorecard is that the information is
taken from (the U.S. Department of Education's Integrated Postsecondary
Education Data System) reports so the information is reliable and accurate. One
can compare similar institutions and know that they are comparing apples to
apples. Students and their families are provided important information for
consideration in the college search process. A drawback from an institutional
perspective is some of the information is several years old." - Julie Dunn,
director of financial planning at Loras College.

"¢ "The good thing is it allows the people to make the comparison, but it also
limits. You need to be very careful when you try to compare one college with the
next." For instance, graduation rate on the scorecard is the percentage of
full-time students; however, 60 percent of NICC's students are part time. -
Liang Chee Wee, president at Northeast Iowa Community College.

"¢ "The College Scorecard provides students and families with a way to find out
information on colleges and universities in one Web location. The site is easy
to use and it compares a uniform set of data for all institutions that is pulled
from a common set of data sources. Some of the information is pulled from
federal reporting that each institution does and while I don't think a school
would purposely report inaccurate information, there is a possibility that some
information could be reported incorrectly. Some of the data is already a few
years old." - Tracey Mingo, director of financial aid at the University of
Wisconsin-Platteville.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Eastwood Advertiser

                            September 4, 2015 Friday

Hucknall New College Nottingham campus to close

BYLINE: By Tim Cunningham Tim.cunningham@jpress.co.uk @dispatchdaily

LENGTH: 471  words


New College Nottingham's Hucknall campus in Portland Road is shutting its doors,
the Dispatch can exclusively reveal.

A college source blames "government funding cuts" and a "sharp decline in
student numbers" for the closure, but the college has failed to confirm further
details about job losses or the number of students affected.

Hucknall councillors and Sherwood MP Mark Spencer say the college faces tough
questions about the reasons for its "unviability", amid fears of the economic
impact on Hucknall town centre.

Mr Spencer said: "It's a shame for Hucknall, but ultimately you have to question
why the student numbers have been falling when there are other local examples,
like West Notts College for one, where student numbers are rising fast.

"More students are off to university than ever before and the trend for
educational establishments like this is upward, not downward.

"It seems our young people are becoming more discerning, looking at their
futures and their careers and choosing the places with the courses and
programmes that they need. They aren't choosing to go to NCN and the college
will have to look closely at the reasons."

Councillor Ben Bradley, Ashfield District Council member for Hucknall North,
said: "It's a shame another business is leaving - it will have an impact on the
high street. We can only hope the redevelopment will boost those numbers and
provide another opportunity to bring more people in the future. Young people
bring vibrancy to the town and it will be shame to lose that."

Councillor John Wilmott, county councillor for Hucknall, said: "It's disturbing
that a facility like this is leaving Hucknall. I am honestly unhappy about it.
It seems Hucknall is always the fall-guy in these situations."

On the NCN website, the college is described as " a smaller, but significant
centre offering vocational access and progression, mainly for the local
community's young people and adults".

In January 2013, New College Nottingham was told it "requires improvement" by
inspectors from government education watchdog Ofsted.

NCN said: "Full-time courses delivered at Hucknall during the last academic year
were floristry, hair and beauty, teacher training and supported learning.

"The college has removed floristry due to lack of demand, hair and beauty and
teacher training learners have moved to its Clarendon campus and supported
learning students have moved to its new  £27 million campus in Basford.

"NCN is now reaching out to key stakeholders including Nottinghamshire County
Council, Ashfield District Council and local councillors to ensure the future of
the building contributes to the overall regeneration of Hucknall.

"We are confident the building can go on to play a major role in the
revitalisation of the town, and will complement the Hucknall Town Centre
Improvement Scheme."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEAA


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Hucknall Dispatch

                            September 4, 2015 Friday

Hucknall New College Nottingham campus to close

BYLINE: By Tim Cunningham Tim.cunningham@jpress.co.uk @dispatchdaily

LENGTH: 471  words


New College Nottingham's Hucknall campus in Portland Road is shutting its doors,
the Dispatch can exclusively reveal.

A college source blames "government funding cuts" and a "sharp decline in
student numbers" for the closure, but the college has failed to confirm further
details about job losses or the number of students affected.

Hucknall councillors and Sherwood MP Mark Spencer say the college faces tough
questions about the reasons for its "unviability", amid fears of the economic
impact on Hucknall town centre.

Mr Spencer said: "It's a shame for Hucknall, but ultimately you have to question
why the student numbers have been falling when there are other local examples,
like West Notts College for one, where student numbers are rising fast.

"More students are off to university than ever before and the trend for
educational establishments like this is upward, not downward.

"It seems our young people are becoming more discerning, looking at their
futures and their careers and choosing the places with the courses and
programmes that they need. They aren't choosing to go to NCN and the college
will have to look closely at the reasons."

Councillor Ben Bradley, Ashfield District Council member for Hucknall North,
said: "It's a shame another business is leaving - it will have an impact on the
high street. We can only hope the redevelopment will boost those numbers and
provide another opportunity to bring more people in the future. Young people
bring vibrancy to the town and it will be shame to lose that."

Councillor John Wilmott, county councillor for Hucknall, said: "It's disturbing
that a facility like this is leaving Hucknall. I am honestly unhappy about it.
It seems Hucknall is always the fall-guy in these situations."

On the NCN website, the college is described as " a smaller, but significant
centre offering vocational access and progression, mainly for the local
community's young people and adults".

In January 2013, New College Nottingham was told it "requires improvement" by
inspectors from government education watchdog Ofsted.

NCN said: "Full-time courses delivered at Hucknall during the last academic year
were floristry, hair and beauty, teacher training and supported learning.

"The college has removed floristry due to lack of demand, hair and beauty and
teacher training learners have moved to its Clarendon campus and supported
learning students have moved to its new  £27 million campus in Basford.

"NCN is now reaching out to key stakeholders including Nottinghamshire County
Council, Ashfield District Council and local councillors to ensure the future of
the building contributes to the overall regeneration of Hucknall.

"We are confident the building can go on to play a major role in the
revitalisation of the town, and will complement the Hucknall Town Centre
Improvement Scheme."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NHUD


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          Mansfield and Ashfield Chad

                            September 4, 2015 Friday

Hucknall New College Nottingham campus to close

BYLINE: By Tim Cunningham Tim.cunningham@jpress.co.uk @dispatchdaily

LENGTH: 471  words


New College Nottingham's Hucknall campus in Portland Road is shutting its doors,
the Dispatch can exclusively reveal.

A college source blames "government funding cuts" and a "sharp decline in
student numbers" for the closure, but the college has failed to confirm further
details about job losses or the number of students affected.

Hucknall councillors and Sherwood MP Mark Spencer say the college faces tough
questions about the reasons for its "unviability", amid fears of the economic
impact on Hucknall town centre.

Mr Spencer said: "It's a shame for Hucknall, but ultimately you have to question
why the student numbers have been falling when there are other local examples,
like West Notts College for one, where student numbers are rising fast.

"More students are off to university than ever before and the trend for
educational establishments like this is upward, not downward.

"It seems our young people are becoming more discerning, looking at their
futures and their careers and choosing the places with the courses and
programmes that they need. They aren't choosing to go to NCN and the college
will have to look closely at the reasons."

Councillor Ben Bradley, Ashfield District Council member for Hucknall North,
said: "It's a shame another business is leaving - it will have an impact on the
high street. We can only hope the redevelopment will boost those numbers and
provide another opportunity to bring more people in the future. Young people
bring vibrancy to the town and it will be shame to lose that."

Councillor John Wilmott, county councillor for Hucknall, said: "It's disturbing
that a facility like this is leaving Hucknall. I am honestly unhappy about it.
It seems Hucknall is always the fall-guy in these situations."

On the NCN website, the college is described as " a smaller, but significant
centre offering vocational access and progression, mainly for the local
community's young people and adults".

In January 2013, New College Nottingham was told it "requires improvement" by
inspectors from government education watchdog Ofsted.

NCN said: "Full-time courses delivered at Hucknall during the last academic year
were floristry, hair and beauty, teacher training and supported learning.

"The college has removed floristry due to lack of demand, hair and beauty and
teacher training learners have moved to its Clarendon campus and supported
learning students have moved to its new  £27 million campus in Basford.

"NCN is now reaching out to key stakeholders including Nottinghamshire County
Council, Ashfield District Council and local councillors to ensure the future of
the building contributes to the overall regeneration of Hucknall.

"We are confident the building can go on to play a major role in the
revitalisation of the town, and will complement the Hucknall Town Centre
Improvement Scheme."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NMAC


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Cambridge Evening News

                            January 4, 2014 Saturday

Hills Road Sixth Form College in Cambridge named among the best state schools in
the country by upmarket Tatler magazine

BYLINE: GARETH MCPHERSON

LENGTH: 432  words


Students from Hills Road celebrating their exam success last year.

A sixth form college in Cambridge has been named among the "creme de la creme"
of state schools in the country - by upmarket magazine Tatler.

Hills Road is hailed as one of the top 30 schools in the country in the high
society must-read, which normally produces guides for private schools for its
moneyed readers.

But this year it decided to profile the best fee-free schools because of the
"£1.2 million before tax" cost of putting two children through a private system
that is not necessarily better than what the state offers.

The guide in February's issue described Hills Road, which has 2,000 students, as
a "university in microcosm".

It said: "One mum says that 'it's hard to find a bad school in Cambridge', given
its gene pool, but Hills Road is a very, very good one. The sheer size is quite
daunting and pupils are expected to organise their own time and be
self-motivated."

One ex-pupil told the magazine that there are "long hours, a lot of homework, no
hand-holding - and that sense of being a little fish in a big pond." It quoted
the Sutton Trust report that found the top five feeders for Oxbridge included -
"shock horror" - a state school.

Isaac Turner, the former chair of the college's student council who left last
summer to study at Durham University, said the recognition is "flattering".

The 18-year-old added: "However, while it is important for the college to
maintain high standards and a fair admissions policy, I hope this news will not
affect the college's current acceptance of those from low-income economic
backgrounds."

A spokeswoman for the college said about 80 per cent of its places are given to
students from its 18 state partner schools. She added they are "increasingly
oversubscribed" and have experienced increases in demand from both state and
independent sectors.

Some 92 per cent of its A-level grades were A*-C and more than half were A* or A
last year.

Simon Armitage, of Stephen Perse Foundation, a group of private schools in
Cambridge, said he does not recognise the trend outlined by Tatler adding the
£600,000 calculation is more than 50 per cent higher than the cost of educating
a child through the foundation between the ages of 3-18.

He said: "Our admissions office are having a record year with total numbers
applying to our schools rising by well over 30 per cent."

He added: "What we are seeing is that some families are choosing more carefully
when to send their children through the private system - perhaps only choosing
the sixth form or only choosing the 11-16 years."

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CambridgeNews


                    Copyright 2014 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Cambridge Evening News

                            January 4, 2014 Saturday

Hills Road Sixth Form College in Cambridge named among the best state schools in
the country by upmarket Tatler magazine

BYLINE: GARETH MCPHERSON

LENGTH: 432  words


Students from Hills Road celebrating their exam success last year.

A sixth form college in Cambridge has been named among the "creme de la creme"
of state schools in the country - by upmarket magazine Tatler.

Hills Road is hailed as one of the top 30 schools in the country in the high
society must-read, which normally produces guides for private schools for its
moneyed readers.

But this year it decided to profile the best fee-free schools because of the
"£1.2 million before tax" cost of putting two children through a private system
that is not necessarily better than what the state offers.

The guide in February's issue described Hills Road, which has 2,000 students, as
a "university in microcosm".

It said: "One mum says that 'it's hard to find a bad school in Cambridge', given
its gene pool, but Hills Road is a very, very good one. The sheer size is quite
daunting and pupils are expected to organise their own time and be
self-motivated."

One ex-pupil told the magazine that there are "long hours, a lot of homework, no
hand-holding - and that sense of being a little fish in a big pond." It quoted
the Sutton Trust report that found the top five feeders for Oxbridge included -
"shock horror" - a state school.

Isaac Turner, the former chair of the college's student council who left last
summer to study at Durham University, said the recognition is "flattering".

The 18-year-old added: "However, while it is important for the college to
maintain high standards and a fair admissions policy, I hope this news will not
affect the college's current acceptance of those from low-income economic
backgrounds."

A spokeswoman for the college said about 80 per cent of its places are given to
students from its 18 state partner schools. She added they are "increasingly
oversubscribed" and have experienced increases in demand from both state and
independent sectors.

Some 92 per cent of its A-level grades were A*-C and more than half were A* or A
last year.

Simon Armitage, of Stephen Perse Foundation, a group of private schools in
Cambridge, said he does not recognise the trend outlined by Tatler adding the
£600,000 calculation is more than 50 per cent higher than the cost of educating
a child through the foundation between the ages of 3-18.

He said: "Our admissions office are having a record year with total numbers
applying to our schools rising by well over 30 per cent."

He added: "What we are seeing is that some families are choosing more carefully
when to send their children through the private system - perhaps only choosing
the sixth form or only choosing the 11-16 years."

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CambridgeNews


                    Copyright 2014 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The Daily Yomiuri

                             March 11, 1994, Friday

Shrinking population a boon to students

BYLINE: Shinichi Katsukata; Yomiuri Shimbun Staff Writer

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 515 words


Eased competition in university entrance examinations, attributed to Japan's
declining college-age population, is expected to give students more leeway in
choosing universities, allowing them to choose based on preference rather than
test scores, education experts say.

This year, the total number of 18-year-olds, the average age of college
freshman, is about 1.86 million, according to statistics. This indicates that
the population in that group has declined by about 70,000 since the 1992 school
year. That figure is expected to nearly double, dropping an estimated 120,000,
by the end of the current school year.

Estimates project that segment will reach 1.77 million by 1995 and 1.62 million
by 1998.

As the student-base shrinks, private universities that were traditionally
regarded as difficult to enter, have been particularly hard-hit.

The number of applicants for Waseda University is down by about 15,000 from last
year. Two other well-known private institutions, Chuo and Meiji universities,
lost 16,000 and 12,000 applicants, respectively.

As for public universities, those at the national level lost about 8,000
applicants. Local government universities, on the other hand, gained 11,000
applicants.

The statistics indicate that the average high school graduate is applying to
fewer universities, choosing to avoid the more competitive universities
altogether.

The statistics also show that university departments where students learn
specific skills, such as medicine, dentistry and pharmacy, have retained high
popularity even at private universities.

According to experts, students enrolling in private universities are shying away
from general subjects, such as the humanities--down a staggering 88 percent from
last year. Instead they are choosing more practical courses like international
relations, medicine, dentistry, agriculture and fishery science.

According to statistics compiled by textbook publisher Fukutake Shoten Co., the
number of students wanting to major in economics is down 92 percent; law 93
percent; and science and technology 93 percent.

As a result one university official predicts that Japan's universities will
eventually fall into three main categories: research-oriented, vocational and
continuing education.

Some leading national institutions are already preparing to reinforce
post-graduate education courses. Other private universities are considering the
establishment of vocational schools to give students practical and specific
skills such as a foreign language proficiency.

One yardstick used to measure the decline in Japan's university-age population
is the ratio of university freshman compared to total candidates.

The figure was 62.1 percent in 1990, peaking last year at 66.3 percent,
according to officials. The figure for 1994 is expected to be about 67 percent,
increasing to 71 percent in 1995 and up to 76 percent in 1998.

The recent popularity of local public universities is probably due to cautious
applicants who opt to remain in their hometowns because of the prolonged
recession.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 1994 The Daily Yomiuri

                              324 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 1, 2013 Thursday

Washington: 'Good debt' can bolster earning potential, official says

LENGTH: 607  words

DATELINE: Washington


US Marine Corps, The Government of USA has issued the following news release:

Establishing "good debt" can be valuable for future earning potential,
particularly in today's challenging economy, a Defense Department official
advised here recently.

Obtaining a student loan for a college education or a higher degree to pursue a
professional career is an example of good debt for service members and their
families when they make the right choices, Barbara Thompson, director of the
Defense Department's office of family policy, children and youth, said in an
interview with American Forces Press Service and the Pentagon Channel.

"You want to make sure you analyze the return on your education investment so
you will have a higher earning potential," Thompson said. Education is an
investment in a service member's future, because those with a higher-education
degree usually have better earning potential and less unemployment, she said, so
it is important for service members to have a plan for their career
opportunities when they transition out of the military.

Taking out student loan, Thompson added, could be part of that strategy, but she
cautioned that those who choose this option should do their homework.

"Whether for a service member or a family member, it's important to think about
[which] student loan would be the right fit, and how much debt [one] should
incur," she said.

Thompson advised seeking practical counseling advice to pursue the best
education choices in schools and in funding.

Military members and their families have numerous resources at their fingertips,
she noted, with installation education offices among them.

"They have people who can help go through the pros and cons of what would be a
smart decision," Thompson said. "Debt is something that [can] take on a life of
its own if you're not careful."

Education office counselors can provide service members and families advice on
applying for student loans that suit individual needs, in addition to choosing
the best college for their chosen studies.

In addition to seeking counselors' advice, Thompson encouraged service members
and families to use the Post-9/11 GI Bill and other resources that are available
to help in paying for an education at a school that's within their financial
means. Scholarships and other resources are available to reduce the cost of a
college education, she noted.

Thompson pointed out that the Military OneSource website has a wealth of
information for people seeking higher education.

"MilitaryOneSource.mil is a really good tool for our service members and
families, not only to seek out a career choice, but also to find information
about financial assistance and choosing the right college," she said.

Military OneSource has "wonderful career counseling," especially for spouses,
Thompson said.

"It helps you define what you want to do and study. It helps you figure out the
best path to take," she added.

The Bureau of Labor Statistics also can help with choosing fields of study,
Thompson said. The bureau offers a website that shows the earning potential in a
variety of professions.

The varying costs of an education are a major factor to weigh, Thompson said,
adding that a popular way to cut expenses for a bachelor's degree is to attend a
community college for two years and transfer to a university to finish.

"There [also] are a lot of wonderful opportunities to have your loan waived for
certain professions for advanced degrees," she said. "It's important to match
your aspirations with your opportunities ... [and] to offset the cost of getting
an advanced degree."

For more information please visit: http://www.marines.mil

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 1, 2013 Thursday

Washington: 'Good debt' can bolster earning potential, official says

LENGTH: 607  words

DATELINE: Washington


US Marine Corps, The Government of USA has issued the following news release:

Establishing "good debt" can be valuable for future earning potential,
particularly in today's challenging economy, a Defense Department official
advised here recently.

Obtaining a student loan for a college education or a higher degree to pursue a
professional career is an example of good debt for service members and their
families when they make the right choices, Barbara Thompson, director of the
Defense Department's office of family policy, children and youth, said in an
interview with American Forces Press Service and the Pentagon Channel.

"You want to make sure you analyze the return on your education investment so
you will have a higher earning potential," Thompson said. Education is an
investment in a service member's future, because those with a higher-education
degree usually have better earning potential and less unemployment, she said, so
it is important for service members to have a plan for their career
opportunities when they transition out of the military.

Taking out student loan, Thompson added, could be part of that strategy, but she
cautioned that those who choose this option should do their homework.

"Whether for a service member or a family member, it's important to think about
[which] student loan would be the right fit, and how much debt [one] should
incur," she said.

Thompson advised seeking practical counseling advice to pursue the best
education choices in schools and in funding.

Military members and their families have numerous resources at their fingertips,
she noted, with installation education offices among them.

"They have people who can help go through the pros and cons of what would be a
smart decision," Thompson said. "Debt is something that [can] take on a life of
its own if you're not careful."

Education office counselors can provide service members and families advice on
applying for student loans that suit individual needs, in addition to choosing
the best college for their chosen studies.

In addition to seeking counselors' advice, Thompson encouraged service members
and families to use the Post-9/11 GI Bill and other resources that are available
to help in paying for an education at a school that's within their financial
means. Scholarships and other resources are available to reduce the cost of a
college education, she noted.

Thompson pointed out that the Military OneSource website has a wealth of
information for people seeking higher education.

"MilitaryOneSource.mil is a really good tool for our service members and
families, not only to seek out a career choice, but also to find information
about financial assistance and choosing the right college," she said.

Military OneSource has "wonderful career counseling," especially for spouses,
Thompson said.

"It helps you define what you want to do and study. It helps you figure out the
best path to take," she added.

The Bureau of Labor Statistics also can help with choosing fields of study,
Thompson said. The bureau offers a website that shows the earning potential in a
variety of professions.

The varying costs of an education are a major factor to weigh, Thompson said,
adding that a popular way to cut expenses for a bachelor's degree is to attend a
community college for two years and transfer to a university to finish.

"There [also] are a lot of wonderful opportunities to have your loan waived for
certain professions for advanced degrees," she said. "It's important to match
your aspirations with your opportunities ... [and] to offset the cost of getting
an advanced degree."

For more information please visit: http://www.marines.mil

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             March 1, 2012 Thursday

Almost 25% of pupils attending Protestant schools are Catholic

BYLINE: GENEVIEVE CARBERY

SECTION: IRELAND; Other stories; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 365 words


ALMOST A quarter of pupils attending Protestant primary schools are from Roman
Catholic backgrounds, a survey has found.

The research showed that pupils attending Protestant schools are from a wide
variety of religious backgrounds, with just over a third (38 per cent) from the
main Protestant groupings.

Parents of  no religion  made up 7.4 per cent of those surveyed, 20 per cent
came from unspecified Christian backgrounds, while 5.6 per cent came from other
Protestant groups such as Pentecostalists.

The Our School Community questionnaire of parents with junior infant and
sixth-class pupils covered 85 per cent of Protestant schools in the State and
received responses from more than 2,000 families in April 2011.

The unique characteristics of religious education in Protestant schools allow it
to be inclusive and its religious education was more broadly Christian-based,
secretary of the Church of Ireland Secondary Education Committee Dr Ken Fennelly
said.

The  teaching of faith formation is recognised to lie with the parish rather
than with the school,  Dr Fennelly said.

This allowed schools to have  an open Christian ethos and facilitates
inclusivity, allowing the child to engage with the broader Christian faith
within the context of the Church of Ireland school ethos .

Academic success was the most important reason for almost half of parents when
choosing a Protestant school.

Less than a fifth of parents ranked faith issues as the most important reason
for choosing the school, but more than half of parents thought it was  important
.

Almost 40 per cent of the Roman Catholic parents gave the faith community of the
school a positive rating. A quarter of Protestant parents said the school s
ethos was the most important reason for choosing the school.

The survey gave a sense of the  complex picture of why a school s ethos is
important , principal of the Church of Ireland College of Education Dr Anne
Lodge said.

Ethos was  not a simple issue  and was one that needed to be explored further,
she added.

The research was sponsored by the Church of Ireland College of Education, the
General Synod Board of Education and the Church of Ireland Primary Schools
Managers  Association.

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                The Week (Oman)

                                 July 28, 2016

Course choices

LENGTH: 724 words


If you are not sure of what you want to study at university, choose subjects
which will leave as many options open as possible, say educational experts.

Universities around the world are always looking for the right candidates who
can excel in their studies and make them proud. At the same time, students scour
the globe to choose the right colleges and universities whose degrees are
considered prestigious. In the bargain, many end up selecting streams they do
not have their heart in.

Social compulsions, parental pressure, lack of vocational guidance and peer
influence often compel students to take up study options that are not best
suited to their individual aptitude. While some persevere and move on, often a
large number end up dropping out midway, thereby losing valuable time and money.

Students in Oman, too, often find themselves at the crossroads when it comes to
choosing the right stream of study, whether at home or abroad. While some simply
hop onto the bandwagon of popular choices, some keep trying out what suits them
best every academic term.

Experts say if you're not sure of what you want to study at university, it's
important to choose subjects which will leave as many options open as possible.
Some courses at university build on knowledge and skills gained at school.
Hence, for engineering degrees, mathematics and physics are typically essential
entry qualifications. There are other subjects which are more frequently
required for entry to degree courses, known as 'facilitating subjects'
(sciences, humanities and languages) because they provide a wide range of
options for university study. Gaining good grades in these subjects help in
keeping a array of options open while choosing the best course for higher
studies. Here are some key factors to consider while making a career choice:

Goals and missions

Always stay focused of your goals or missions in life before taking up a stream
of study. If you have not set any goals, it is good to find an institution or
mentor who can offer career guidance and a clear picture of your future options.
If you aspire to take up higher studies in a particular stream, it is important
to begin with a course that would facilitate your future study, on completion.
For example, if you plan to get into business or have a family business that you
hope to take on, choosing business studies would be a good choice.

College requirements

Most schools require all students to take a set of core courses that span
several areas. This set of courses may be called general education requirements,
all-college requirements, liberal arts requirements or something similar. It is
often not necessary to complete all of these requirements before taking courses
for a major, but you need to complete at least one of these in the first year.

If you have chosen a major, you should look closely at the requirements to
complete the major. Taking a course or two in the chosen major early in college
career makes sense.

Course load

You should consider carefully what the normal load of courses or credits per
semester is. You need to be careful to take enough credits to be making
significant progress towards graduation but not more than you can actually
handle.

Pre-requisites

You need to look ahead to see whether certain courses have pre-requisites, or
other courses (like English language tests) that need to be completed prior to
taking the course. You need to complete these well in advance to be able to
apply for the required course.

Class timings

Some students prefer morning classes to be able to do their own study later in
the day while some prefer afternoons, if they are doing a part time job in the
morning. Others prefer evening classes if they need the whole day off for a job.
There are others who are tuned to weekend classes. It is, therefore important to
choose the college which offers a course timing that suits your own preference.
But remember, you may not always get what suits you best.

External factors

Remember your other engagements which may come in the way of your study hours,
like sports practice sessions or jobs which have been already taken up. Also,
the commuting time required to reach the campus is very important when choosing
a course. This might need you to plan in advance, to have the right transport
available.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/1/1/37/146997331754.jpg



LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1


              Copyright 2016 The Week - Apex Press and Publishing.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Geelong Advertiser (Australia)

                            March 16, 2016 Wednesday
                                Geelong Edition

Medicine you don't need

BYLINE: Sue Dunlevy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 499 words


CHILDREN with ear infections will be refused antibiotics and parents are being
told they shouldn't give pain relievers to reduce a fever under a crackdown on
unnecessary medical treatment.

Everything you thought you knew about treating common ailments is being turned
on its head after doctors rev-iewed the medical evidence for 61 of the most
commonly sought medical treatments.

Fourteen prestigious medical colleges have nominated areas of waste and
inappropriate treatment as part of the NPS Choosing Wisely campaign in a bid to
rein in health costs and improve medical practice.

In a decision that will be confronting for mothers whose children are screaming
with pain from an ear infection, they recommend against routine use of
antibiotics for ear pain in children aged 2-12.

"Regardless of whether one or both eardrums are red or bulging, antibiotics do
not red-uce pain at 24 hours," the Royal Australian College of General
Practitioners says.

Instead, parents should use paracetamol or ibuprofen to control the pain,
antibiotics should only be given if the child has a fever, is vomiting or
lethargic says the president of the Royal Australian College of General
Practitioners Dr Frank Jones. Parents are also likely to baulk at a
recommendation by the Australian College of Nursing not to give kids paracetamol
or ibuprofen to bring down their temperature when they are ill. "The benefits of
fever in slowing the growth and replication of bacteria and viruses are well
documented," says the Australian College of Nursing.

Medicine should only be used to reduce fever if the child is uncomfortable or
distressed the college says.

The Choosing Wisely campaign also calls for the practice of prescribing
antibiotics to inf-ants with a fever to stop bec-ause it is not only "low value"
but "can be dangerous, in del-aying presentation to hospital by inappropriately
reassuring patients".

One-in-14 children have side effects from antibiotics and their overuse is
fuelling the rise of antibiotic resistant infections.

Medical colleges are also calling for a stop to X-rays of most foot and ankle
injuries as part of the campaign.

The review has found routine CT scans for some cancers and appendicitis can be
dangerous delivering unnecessary radiation.

And they warn some people can die from the complications of routine
colonoscopies saying faecal testing for bowel cancer is less costly and safer.

Doctors are also being told to stop prescribing antibiotics for upper
respiratory infections and to refuse chest -X-rays for uncomplicated bronchitis
cases.

UNNECESSARY TREATMENT Test, scans and medicines doctors say you don't need:
ANTIBIOTICS for ear infections PARACETAMOL or aspirin to control fever X-RAYS of
ankle or foot trauma CHEST X-rays for uncomplicated bronchitis ROUTINE
colonoscopies ANTIBIOTICS for upper respiratory tract infections LONG-TERM use
of anti-inflammatories in the elderly X-RAYS for lower back pain REPEATED blood
tests for people with fatigueCT scan to check for appendicitis

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Geelong Advertiser


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                              May 30, 2016 Monday
                               hyderabad Edition

Mission Admission: Experts tell students to keep up with the times

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 301 words


TOI's Mission Admission seminar drew a huge crowd on Sunday , with more than 200
students and their parents thronging to seek advice from experts on higher
education opportunities.

Educationalist Chukka Ramaiah spoke at length about preparing for IIT and its
advantages. "Preparation for IIT and state-level competitive exams are
different. Questions in IIT tests have more than one concept.But in state-level
exams, questions are based on only one concept.Therefore, a majority of students
find state-level exams such as Eamcet easier than IIT-JEE," he

said. Telangana has the highest number of IIT aspi rants in the co untry .

To those who are looking to find a seat in any of the private engineering
colleges in the state, registrar of Jawaharlal Nehru Tech

nological University (JNTU), N Yadaiah, gave a three-pronged strategy to choose
the right college."There are three parameters for choosing the right college
\xAD accreditation, facilities and placements. One must assess all these before
seeking admission," he said.

Elaborating on the emer

ging trends in engineering, Anil Kumar, director for external relations, Bennett
University , spoke of the importance of keeping up with the changing technology
and computing practices."Technology keeps changing. Therefore, students should
be very careful in choosing their career. For example, I purchased a pager for
Rs 21,000 two decades ago. Today , the device has no relevance," said Kumar.

Echoing similar views, director of CBIT, Chenakeshava Rao, spoke on how studying
nano-technology and biotechnology may widen career prospects for students
abroad. "Even today , there is very little awareness among students about these
two fields. Though there are very few jobs in nanotechnology and bio-technology
in India, the scope is very high abroad," said Rao.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 997 DOCUMENTS

              St. Charles County Business Record (St. Charles, MO)

                            November 19, 2001 Monday

St. Peters Chamber of Commerce seminar offers tips on choosing Internet
providers

BYLINE: Kathleen Brady

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 982 words


"Connect Me," the first of a trilogy of seminars on technology hosted by the St.
Peters Chamber of Commerce, reviewed information businesspeople need to know
when choosing an Internet connection and an Internet service provider.

On Friday, Nov. 9, the St. Peters Chamber of Commerce hosted the latest seminar
in a series offered through its Success Express Business Series program at the
St. Charles Community College.

Three representatives from WorldCom in Weldon Spring took turns during the
Connect Me seminar to relay the basics about the Internet connection speeds,
connection options, provider options, costs and what to consider when choosing
an ISP.

The speakers included Frank Fleming, an account executive for WorldCom; Susan
Tranchilla, data global applications representative; and Colleen Sosbey, a sales
and account representative.

There are two components to the cost of Internet access: the price of the
connection speed and the price of the provider. Cost for both connection speed
and provider, referred to as "access" and "port," increases as the quality for
both increases. In other words, the saying, "you get what you pay for" was used
frequently throughout the seminar.

Fleming said that when a business shops for a connection to the Internet and an
Internet provider, it needs to consider several factors: How often does the
company use the Internet, and how vital is the Internet connection to the
business? The more important Internet access is to a business, the more
justifiable it is to spend more money to get a higher-quality provider and line.

A business that uses the Internet very little, for example, may not depend on
the connection and provider being reliable or top-notch. But a business that may
lose, for example, thousands of dollars if its Internet connection goes down for
a few days may require a high-quality connection and provider.

Tranchilla spent some time reviewing the different types of Internet
connections, speeds and costs. She described four options for connecting to the
Internet. The first was described as a "dial-up" connection. Without getting too
technical, Tranchilla explained that dial-up connection uses copper lines of a
phone line, that it is offered at a low cost, that it has a slow download speed
and that it is not a reliable connection.

She explained the term "not reliable" to mean a connection that often
disconnects from the Internet in miduse or one that is down for days at a time.

An integrated services digital network is the next connection Tranchilla
described. She mentioned that this connection is fairly reliable and is offered
at a medium cost. ISDN lines and dial-up connections are commonly used by
consumers at home, not in a business setting. ISDN also uses copper wiring.

A digital subscriber line has been a popular option for businesses in recent
history because of its low cost, but the speakers described this connection as
not reliable. In fact, the speakers went so far as to say that a DSL connection
is really not suitable for a business and that businesses should think twice
before investing in a DSL. A DSL also uses copper wiring.

The most reliable connection to the Internet for a business is a dedicated 128K
(kilobytes) connection or T1 line (154K). These lines are highly reliable and
cost more. Businesses that are very dependent on the Internet for business
should invest in a T1 line.

Although there are several other connections to the Internet above a T1, these
four are the most often offered to businesses because of their price range.
Higher-quality connections above a T1 line are extremely expensive and are sold
to very large companies.

Just as a business needs to evaluate what connection would suit it the best, it
also needs to evaluate to what degree it depends on its Internet connection when
searching for a provider. Like connection options, not all ISPs are the same.

Internet providers are divided into tiers. A Tier 1 provider is an Internet
provider that has its own Internet, or "backbone." WorldCom is a Tier 1
provider, for example, and its Internet backbone is provided by UUNet.

The cost to purchase access through a Tier 1 provider is extremely high, but the
connection is also 100 percent guaranteed, not to mention extremely fast.

Tier 1 providers usually sell connections to other large companies. Tier 2 ISPs
are providers that buy their Internet connection from Tier 1 providers. The cost
to purchase a connection from a Tier 2 provider is still usually high-end and is
sold to large companies, organizations or municipalities.

As the tier numbers become higher, the cost to purchase access becomes lower,
but the reliability also decreases. The WorldCom reps explained the reason why
reliability decreased the higher the tier becomes by using the example of cars
on a highway.

If a Tier 1 provider sells one dedicated "highway" to a Tier 2 company, that
Tier 2 company and all its subscribers hop on the road. When that Tier 2 company
sells access to a Tier 3 company, all of the Tier 3 subscribers cram on the
highway and the more congested the highway becomes -- thus the slower and
less-reliable the Internet access.

Tier 3 and 4 providers are able to sell access at lower costs because of their
volume of customers.

Some Tier 3 companies have recently been going out of business, explained the
WorldCom reps, and in turn a lot of subscribers are losing their connections.

To safeguard from losing access from a provider, companies were encouraged to
ask a few questions of potential providers. Questions to ask potential ISPs are:
"Are you making any money?" "How long have you been around?" and "Who is your
provider?"

The St. Peters' chamber Success Express Business Series program will run two
more seminars on technology at SCCC on Jan. 11 and March 8. To register, call
the chamber at (636) 447-3336.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: General news

                      Copyright 2001 Dolan Media Newswires

                              331 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             May 8, 2008, Thursday
                                 First Edition

Women build up a career

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 215 words


CONSTRUCTION has long been a male dominated industry, with few females choosing
to study in areas such as brickwork, painting and decorating, carpentry and the
built environment.

However, over the past few years Walsall College has seen a marked increase in
the number of females choosing to enrol on construction courses, perhaps
signalling an end to the industry shortage of women.

Curriculum manager for construction, Barry Hill, said: "There has been a
definite increase in females choosing to enrol on construction courses here,
from Saturday to May 19.

"This is a trend we hope will continue in the coming years to even up the gender
gaps in the industry.

"We welcome and positively encourage females into construction.

"It's all about thoroughly explaining the requirements to candidates, breaking
down the stereotypical ideas and allowing them to see classes taking place so
they can see the environment they will be working in before they start.

"We also have a female tutor on our team, so we are leading by example."

Walsall College painting and decorating apprentice Sarah Barrett said: "I'm
treated no differently because I'm a girl and I've made a lot of mates on the
course.

"I like to be active and do practical work so the painting and decorating
apprenticeship has been ideal for me."

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Patriot Ledger (Quincy, MA)

                            March 19, 2009 Thursday
                                  ROP Edition

HARD TIMES;
With few jobs, more students choosing public service programs;
MAKING THE BEST OF A BAD SITUATION

BYLINE: ALLISON MANNING, The Patriot Ledger.

Allison Manning may be reached at amanning@ledger.com

SECTION: Business; pg. 17

LENGTH: 622 words


The graduating class of 2009 is entering the work force in the midst of the
worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. In the past, the work force
and graduate school have been the top two choices for seniors. But a third
option is growing in popularity: public service programs, like the Peace Corps,
AmeriCorps and Teach for America.

"Now (public service) is holding equal weight with the job market and grad
school, if not a tier below," said John Paganelli, Bridgewater State College's
acting director of career services. "These are three viable options."

By committing to a year or two of service, students are hoping to weather the
economic storm, Paganelli said.

Teach for America received more than 35,000 applications this year, a 42 percent
increase over 2008.

Teach for America spokesman Trevor Stutz said that while the economy has reduced
competition from the private sector job market, he credits President Obama's
call to public service for the increase in applications.

"Service is growing," said Diane Bell, director of Bridgewater State College's
community service center.

"A lot of us aren't fortunate to land a job that we love," Bell said. "If you
love to serve and want to do a little bit of travel, the Peace Corps and
AmeriCorps are perfect for that."

While AmeriCorps is something Bridgewater State College senior Katie Costello
has always considered, the unstable economy factored into her decision.

"I've always been involved with community service," said Costello, a business
major. "It seemed like good timing for it, with the economy where it is. Going
into the job force is a little shaky."

Stonehill College senior Chris Tirrell applied to Teach for America and 15 law
schools, but expected financial aid for graduate school would be hard to come by
this year.

The Plymouth native was surprised when several of his top schools, including
Notre Dame and Duke, gave him aid, making his decision between service and grad
school much harder.

"When the job market looks so bleak, you want to turn to alternatives," he said.
"Service is becoming a lot more attractive."

Current AmeriCorps member Sarah Buckley works at Bridgewater State College,
coordinating volunteer opportunities for students.

After graduating last year from Massachusetts College of Liberal Arts, she
didn't want to rush into a job or grad school.

After a year with the program, she's choosing between renewing her commitment
for a year, or going to grad school. She's applied to Emerson College's
publishing and writing program, and is waiting to hear back.

"I know I have a job next year if grad school doesn't work out," she said. "A
lot of people can't say that."

Applications climb

35,000Teach for America applications this year, a 42 percent increase over last
year.

13,011 Peace Corps applications this year, a 16 percent increase from last year.

171,085 applications to AmeriCorps programs this year, an increase of 7.8
percent, over last year.

Choosing public service

Here's what you get by signing on with one of these service organizations:

Teach for America

Same salary and health benefits as other beginning teachers, paid by school
district.

Eligible for education award of $4,725 at the end of each year of service.

Student loan forbearance.

AmeriCorps

Some members receive a "modest living allowance" during the term of service.

Education award of $4,725 for full-time members.

Eligible for student loan forbearance.

Peace Corps

Living allowance providing similar standard of living to people in the
community.

$6,000 for transition back to life in the U.S.

Assistance finding a job upon returning home. Two-year volunteers given
"noncompetitive eligibility" for government jobs.

Deferment of student loans.

Source: Organization Web sites.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AmeriCorps volunteer Sarah Buckley, 22, of North Attleboro, gets ready
to help serve dinner at MainSpring House in Brockton. Buckley works at
Bridgewater State College, coordinating volunteer opportunities for students.,
AMELIA KUNHARDT/The Patriot Ledger

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Patriot Ledger

                              333 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 7, 2016 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Audits of the claims colleges make about quality could help students, parents

BYLINE: Jeffrey J. Selingo

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 815 words


A college degree has long promised a better job, a better career and a better
life. The anxiety that students and parents have about college is typically
limited to the front end of the process: getting into school, figuring out how
to pay the tuition bill and choosing the right major.

But there is a lot of noise around the degree as a recognizable signal of job
readiness. As more and more people are earning a bachelor's degree, employers
seem to be trusting it less and less.

Yet every college claims in its admissions materials that its "unique" style of
education prepares its students for the job market. Trying to separate the
marketing rhetoric from reality is nearly impossible for parents and students.
It's why college rankings play an outsized role in determining the quality of
higher education, even though none of them actually evaluate what happens in the
classroom or even outside it during an undergraduate's career.

Recently I wrote about efforts by employers to better assess the claims colleges
and universities make about their quality. Employers, for instance, are
increasingly choosing specific campuses where workers can use tuition benefits
instead of giving them a blank check to use anywhere. Meanwhile, federal
regulators are weighing rules about whether graduates can get their loans
forgiven if they were misled by institutions about their job prospects.

But neither solution is very helpful to students and parents at this time of
year as they attempt to compare colleges during the application process. That's
why another approach under discussion by higher-education officials may prove
helpful to students and parents trying to assess the quality of colleges: an
audit of the assertions that colleges make about their quality.

Colleges have their financial statements audited, of course. But colleges make
plenty of other claims to prospective students that no one ever really checks
out - from the percentage of students who land a job after graduation to the
quality of classroom instruction.

"There are parents and students who are interested in knowing whether the
college they're considering is worth it and they want an independent third party
to answer that question," Brendan LeBlanc, a partner at Ernst & Young in Boston,
told me recently.

Such nonfinancial audits are now commonplace in the corporate world, especially
around cybersecurity and sustainability. LeBlanc said that almost any claim made
by an organization can be audited as long as there is some sort of objective,
suitable criteria by which to measure it. As an example, he cited McDonald's,
which several years ago promised that its popular Happy Meals would include
water, milk and juice, as well as a side salad, fruit or vegetable in place of
fries.

Critics saw the announcement as little more than a marketing ploy and questioned
the sincerity of the promise. After all, how would McDonald's, with more than
35,000 restaurants around the world, ensure that every Happy Meal included
healthy options? It ended up that the auditors couldn't verify that statement
was true in every outlet for every Happy Meal, so McDonald's had to revise its
promise that healthy options would be the "default configuration" of the meal.

"For an audit to work there has to be trust and confidence that the same rules
and standards are being applied so that someone can make a judgment," LeBlanc
said. "It's providing some credibility to a process."

Ernst & Young and other large auditing firms aren't the only organizations
trying to figure out a better way to measure the quality of a college.

As Goldie Blumenstyk recently reported in the Chronicle of Higher Education, the
Center for American Progress has proposed a new approach to evaluate a college's
financial health and students' ability to get jobs and pay off their loans, with
the Department of Education acting as the auditor under such a system. Entangled
Solutions, a higher-education consultancy, is asking for input on creating an
independent organization to oversee quality, much the same way that the
Financial Accounting Standards Board monitors corporate-accounting standards.

All these proposals are aimed at fixing the broken self-regulated accreditation
system of higher education that continues to let colleges operate with low
graduation rates or that produces graduates deep in debt without job prospects.
Quality control that relies on accreditation doesn't help students and their
families make good choices up front when they are choosing colleges.

Higher education is an "experience good," meaning students don't know what they
are buying until after they experience it. The result is a college search
process in which students and their families make important decisions based on
haphazard or incomplete information. Any effort to bring better consumer
information to the market should be encouraged.

jeff.selingo@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            Blackmore Vale Magazine

                               May 1, 2015 Friday

SECTION: FEATURES:OTHER; Pg. 100

LENGTH: 336  words


What to think about when choosing A-levels

When you are choosing A-levels think carefully about which subjects you enjoy
and are good at. High grades will increase your options afterwards. Also think
about what you might need for your next steps. If you are clear about a
university course or career path, check the requirements - even if you think you
know what they are.

Consider how the A-level subjects work together. Some subjects support each
other for example: maths and physics, biology and PE, or biology and psychology.

At university, for traditional academic subjects like chemistry, English or
history, you will need that subject at A-level.  Scientific and technical
subjects like marine biology or engineering also have specific requirements. So
do most vocational courses, areas like medicine, nursing and teaching.

If you have a language at A-level you can start a new language at university.

There are also a huge number of courses that will accept a range of A-level
subjects. Examples are sociology, accountancy and law.

A-levels for a profession

If you are going into a profession straight after A-levels, if you plan to go
into a science or technology field like engineering then you will probably need
maths and science. If you want a career in finance or business, then business
studies, ICT (information and communications technology) or economics would be
relevant. Many A-level entry jobs will accept a range of different subjects, be
sure to check before you choose.

If you're not sure about your future, keep your options open by trying to choose
subjects to give you a range of different skills, for example: history will give
you research and essay writing skills; religious education will teach you to
think through abstract problems; computer science, maths and languages will give
you practical skills.

Find details of university courses at www.ucas.com and get careers information
from the Job Profiles on the National Careers Service website at
https://nationalcareersservice.direct.gov.uk.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                             March 2, 2006 Thursday

District alters proof-of-residency policy

BYLINE: Sarah Jane Tribble, CONTRA COSTA TIMES

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. F4

LENGTH: 381 words


Cautioning that it will take time to work out the kinks, the Mt. Diablo Unified
School District board late Tuesday unanimously approved plans to implement a
districtwide proof-of-residency program.

Complaints from parents and students at College Park High School sparked the
proposed district policy, which demands driver's licenses, passports and other
government-issued documentation as valid proof of residency. Utility bills, long
considered ample proof, will no longer be accepted.

"It's not our intent to give students a hard time in terms of attending school,"
Superintendent Gary McHenry said. "We just want to make sure they are attending
the right school."

Officials said the district's overall enrollment is shrinking slightly each
year. But, it seems, students and parents are selectively choosing which schools
to fill up and that trend is most acute at the high school level.

College Park's capacity is 1,800 -- and yet 2,138 students are enrolled.
Northgate also is slightly over capacity. Clayton Valley and Concord high
schools have reached capacity, according to district data.

Although the policy will be districtwide, officials said they plan to roll it
out first at College Park and follow suit at schools impacted by capacity
problems.

"This is going to put an incredible burden on district employees," said board
member Gary Eberhart.

The district is forming teams of employees who will process the additional
paperwork, McHenry said. The district has staff members who already check
residency, he said.

Student board representative Alysoun Bonde, who attends College Park, encouraged
the board not to balk at the additional work.

"We're overcrowded, there aren't enough resources and there's just too many
students," Bonde said.

District research shows that families moving into new or resold houses are not
driving the increased enrollment at College Park. Rather, students and parents
in the so-called "gray area," which is a small geographic area where residents
can choose between College Park and Ygnacio Valley, are increasingly picking
College Park.

Families living in the gray area will be able to continue choosing between the
schools under the new district policy, officials said.

Sarah Jane Tribble covers education. Reach her at 925-977-8418 or
stribble@cctimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 17, 2015 Tuesday

New York: College of Mount Saint Vincent Hosts Impressive Turnout at Event for
Early Action Applicants

LENGTH: 396  words

DATELINE: Albany


College of Mount Saint Vincent, The State of New York has issued the following
News release:

More than 70 high school seniors who applied to the College of Mount Saint
Vincent through its Early Action program turned out last Sunday, February 8, for
the Mount's "Early Action Brunch," a day that enabled them to talk with faculty
and current students, explore programs and opportunities, and get a feel for
what it might be like to be a Mount student.
Daniel Gallagher, the Mount's Vice President for Enrollment, noted that choosing
early action allows students to declare strong interest in one school, while
allowing them time to really consider what may be their most important decision
to date. When the College announced its groundbreaking Tuition Reset and
National Measures of Quality initiatives last fall, he pointed out, what may
have been out of reach before is now more accessible for middle-income families.

At Sunday's event, the excitement was palpable as enthusiastic accepted students
and their families chatted with professors, learned about programs like the
First Year Experience and Oxley Career Education program, and enjoyed a catered
brunch with current students, who encouraged them to ask questions about college
life as a Mount Saint Vincent Dolphin.

According to Mr. Gallagher, the good turnout could be seen as an enthusiastic
response to the College's leadership in making tuition affordable while still
providing an exceptional education. With the tuition reset, he noted, more
families are driven by the spiraling costs of higher education to seek both high
quality and authentic value in choosing where to spend their hard-earned tuition
dollars.

About the College of Mount Saint Vincent
Founded in 1847 by the Sisters of Charity, the College of Mount Saint Vincent
offers nationally recognized liberal arts education and a select array of
professional fields of study on a landmark campus overlooking the Hudson River.
Committed to the education of the whole person, and enriched by the unparalleled
cultural, educational and career opportunities of New York City, the College
equips students with the knowledge, skills and experiences necessary for lives
of achievement, professional accomplishment and leadership in the 21st century.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                           August 17, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Dream futures;
ADVERTISING FEATURE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 326 words


Right grades, plenty of career choice but which way now for your dream future?
Whether you think you have aced those exams or you are worried you did not quite
make the mark, there are a heap of options ahead and choosing your career
direction can be an exciting process.

You can examine what kind of person you are, the kind of life you want and how
you can achieve your goals in the real world.

Narrow down the options so that it becomes clearer what you really want to do.

If you are waiting to receive your GCSE results this summer, want to progress on
to a new full-time course or apprenticeship or you are an adult looking to
return to learning, North Warwickshire & Hinckley College still has places on a
wide range of fulltime programmes and apprenticeships that will allow you to
progress on to further study, university or employment.

The college is continuing to invest in its estate to ensure it provides an
inspirational learning experience for students.

New Construction Centre, Creative Arts Campus and Engineering Centres all open
this September.

To find out more, visit the website, call 024 7624 3366, text NWHC to 88020 or
e-mail: the.college@nwhc.ac.uk www.nwhc.ac.uk IF LIFE has taken a different
path, then doing a full-time course can be difficult, especially if you are
working or have family commitments.

At Brooksby Melton College (BMC), you can study from as little as half a day
through to one year at just a day a week.

Courses run throughout the year in all areas of the college.

At BMC its all about careers, not just courses. That is why more people choose
to change their career prospects with BMC.

For more information, call 01664 855444 or visit the college's website at:
www.brooksbymelton.ac.uk

"There are a heap of options ahead and choosing your career direction can be an
exciting process"

"Examine what kind of person you are, the kind of life you want. Narrow down the
options so that it becomes clearer what you really want to do"

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAPPING OUT YOUR FUTURE: College courses can point out the right
direction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2011 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                              July 31, 2016 Sunday
                                   - Edition

Back To School

BYLINE: JULIA WERTH

SECTION: HARTFORD MAGAZINE; HMA; Pg. 94

LENGTH: 588  words



HIGHLIGHT: Embracing the Bohemian trend, this dorm room designed by Bed Bath &
Beyond includes a reversible "Anthology Happy Indigo" comforter and pillow sham
set in prints of pink and blue (twin, $99); and a folding butterfly chair in
plush tufted fabric with a puffed pillow top ($49.99). The Etagere Floor Lamp,
at right, has a charging station and shelves ($69.99) at Bed Bath and Beyond.
The Spinning Closet Organizer in aqua by Studio 3B at Bed Bath & Beyond has six
shelves and six side pockets and turns 360 degrees ($19.99). This Room
Essentials microfiber sheet set from Target is patterned with hand-drawn
designs. The Room Essentials storage ottoman from Target comes in black or blue
($24.99). Throw pillows make a dorm room soft and comfortable. The "Equip Your
Space" Organizer Desk Lamp with a flexible gooseneck.Provided by Bed Bath &
Beyond Provided by Bed Bath & Beyond Provided by Bed Bath & Beyond Provided by
Target Provided by Target Provided by Ikea Bed Bath & Beyond


With high school graduation finally over, a deposit paid on that college you
agonized over choosing for months, countless forms and surveys filled out and
maybe even courses selected, the daydreams begin about that first college dorm
room.

A brand new comforter, a matching sheet and pillow set, that poster of your
favorite band above the headboard, a cool neon floor lamp found at Target - you
can picture it all.

But does that picturesque image take into account that everything must fit into
10 feet by 12 feet? How about the slovenly stranger you just signed up to live
with for nine months?

When choosing how to decorate your dorm room, these are two important things to
keep in mind: One, that you have next to no floor space, and two, that you are
not alone.

There may not be a lot of floor space, in fact there is often exactly 120 square
feet of it, but there is ample vertical space. Ceilings in dorm rooms are much
higher than in most houses, so instead of spreading out, build up! Anything that
can be hung or stacked or somehow stuck to those gross, off-whitish walls should
be.

Opt for the pictures that can be tacked to a board or frames that can be hung on
the wall. Bulletin boards, or magnetic white boards, are great places to put
reminders or pin photos. They take up wall space (great), are relatively
inexpensive (wonderful) and are truly useful (even better!). They help solve the
common problem of those awkward half sheets of paper, or important notices, that
college students are too often given and just as often get lost in a jumble on
the desk or crushed in the bottom of a bag.

Storage space, like floor space, is limited to only one small closet, but wall
space (starting to sound familiar) is not! Your solution, therefore, is hooks
and lots of them. Hats, scarves, towels, bathrobes, jackets and that random
medal you won can all find a place on a hook where they serve two purposes. One,
it keeps them off the floor and out of the back of a random drawer, and two, it
covers up blank space and gives the room a much more lived-in feel.

Large boxes for under the bed or colorful sets of drawers are also a great
investment since they can provide storage, extra flat surfaces for things like
mugs and water bottles and a bit of dimension to the room.

The key to dorm room decorating, and which every tip or trick or creative new
method eventually boils down to, is to make it your home.

Does a home have just one too-bright light? No, it doesn't, so neither should
your dorm room. Desk lights, clip-on lights, Christmas lights - the icicle ones
if you can find them - really anything that can add more levels of lighting
options to your room without taking up floor space.

A carpet is an absolute essential. Chipped beige or black tile just doesn't
provide the same homey touch as a rug that invites visitors to sit, you to lie
down when your bed is just too far away or bare feet at any time of day. It
doesn't need to be expensive, or brightly colored, just make sure it is big
enough to cover the majority of the room where the beds and desks aren't.

Your room may not end up like a magazine photograph. If you are not a neat freak
you won't suddenly become one. If you've never found yourself decorating for
fun, your room won't be the one that bursts with color and barely shows an inch
of wall - but no matter who you are, with just a little bit of thought and a few
of these tips, it is possible for your room to be a functional space for both
you and your roommate while looking and feeling like home.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 997 DOCUMENTS


               Coal Country Advertiser (Rockhampton, Queensland)

                                 April 3, 2009

Boarding colleges are home away from home for students

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 359  words


A VALUES-BASED, caring and academically high standard education is vital to the
personal and professional development of our young people.

The education choices that parents make for their children can have a major
influence on their future employment and career opportunities.

When making choices for their children's secondary education, many parents in
rural communities have traditionally turned to boarding schools.

Finding the educational and boarding facility that best suits the young person's
individual needs can be a daunting task as the range of factors to be considered
include single or same sex schooling, location, history, quality of facilities,
reputation for care, breadth of curriculum and a proven record of commitment to
the pursuit of academic excellence.

Choosing the boarding school to whom to entrust their child is one of the most
important decisions that rural parents have to make. Parents in choosing a
boarding school place a tremendous trust in the school to provide their son or
daughter with loving care and concern when they are far from family and home.

Having been a past principal of a Boarding School, I can say from experience
that the presence of boarders creates a real family environment in a school
community and the commitment of staff to the educational and personal welfare of
the boarders extends well past the daily closing of the last text book.

If parents are looking for a boarding school that allows both their daughter and
son to remain easily accessible to family here in Central Queensland and also
allows them to remain close to each other for support, then I would commend to
them the three Catholic boarding schools in the Rockhampton/Capricorn Coast
area, The Cathedral College, St Brendan's College and St Ursula's College.

These Catholic boarding colleges aim to foster in all their students a guiding
set of Catholic values and beliefs that will stand them in good stead throughout
their lives.

For the young men and women who board at these colleges, it is hoped that they
will truly be their "home away from home".


- Leesa Jeffcoat - Director Diocese of Rockhampton Catholic Education

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RCA


                    Copyright 2009 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Pine Rivers Press (Australia)

                           August 10, 2011 Wednesday
                                  1 - Edition

College name is favoured

BYLINE: JAMIE-LEIGH CARTER<br/>carterj@qst.newsltd.com.au

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 295  words


PRINCIPAL Paul Pengelly is encouraging locals to cast their vote on their
preferred name for the new Murrumba Downs high school due to open next year.

An online poll showed a clear front-runner with over 70 per cent of voters
choosing Murrumba Downs State College over runner-up name Murrumba Downs State
High School.

``These two names were the two most preferred after many public consultations,''
Mr Pengelly said.

``Certainly one is polling strongly and that same one received about 90 per cent
hands up in the meetings.''

Despite the emergence of an early favourite, Mr Pengelly said either option was
still a possibility and the decision would ultimately be made by Education
Queensland and the Minister.

Mr Pengelly said he would be very happy with either option.

``The only preference I have is that it meets with all criteria of historical
importance and identifies the location, which they both do,'' he said.

State Member for Kallangur Mary-Anne O'Neill said the online voting was a great
way for everyone to be involved in choosing the new name. Although Ms O'Neill
said she did not have a preference between the two names, she said she was
pleased Murrumba was included in both because it had an important historical
significance to the local area.

A Pine Rivers Press street poll reflected the two leading preferences.

``I would like to see it called Murrumba Downs State College. All of the new
schools are getting the college name,'' Kirsty Cruickshanks, of Griffin, said.

``I think State High School because it sounds better,''Janice Sengstock, of
Griffin said.

The online poll had attracted over 100 votes in the first week of voting and was
expected to close today or later this week.

To have your say or view the results, visit
http://northcoast.eq.edu.au/newschools

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: PRP


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Doncaster Free Press

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

Proposed site for rail college bid is unveiled

LENGTH: 367  words


The location of the potential HS2 rail college in Doncaster is revealed today.

Doncaster Council say a five- acre site at Lakeside would mean the campus is
located close to the town centre, motorway network and Robin Hood Airport.

The greenfield site on Carolina Way, which already has outline planning
permission in place, is on the doorstep of a number of major rail and
engineering employers including DB Schenker, Volker Rail and Unipart.

Hitachi, which recently announced plans to take possession of a site at
Doncaster Carr to build a £70 million maintenance depot creating 160 jobs, will
also be close by.

Peter Dale, Director of Regeneration and Environment, said: "The Lakeside Campus
site is a prime location. It is in the heart of Doncaster and offers easy access
to road, rail and air links.

"Doncaster enjoys a rich rail heritage and this HS2 rail college would be a
rocket boost for our already expanding rail and engineering sector.

"This ready to go' site should be an attractive proposition for the Government
who, by choosing Doncaster, would help rebalance the national economy by
spreading the benefit of the planned HS2."

The bid to bring the college to Doncaster was recently submitted to Government
by the private sector led Centre for Rail And Technical Excellence CREATE,
coordinated by Doncaster Council and supported by Sheffield City Region Local
Enterprise Partnership, business leaders and partners across the region.

The HS2 rail college will be a research and teaching centre focused on
developing world class engineering skills.

It will help businesses develop and grow, offer excellent training for local
people, deliver quality jobs and drive economic growth.

People and businesses are being encouraged to back the bid' campaign at
www.businessdoncaster.com.

Mr Dale added: "I urge everyone to go online and back the bid to bring the
college to Doncaster. We are the home of rail engineering and innovation.

"We have the perfect location for the college and by choosing Doncaster it will
spread the benefit of HS2 and help rebalance the national economy. Doncaster
will capitalise on its rail engineering assets far quicker by assisting local
firms with their expansion plans."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NDFP


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Epworth Bells

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

Proposed site for rail college bid is unveiled

LENGTH: 367  words


The location of the potential HS2 rail college in Doncaster is revealed today.

Doncaster Council say a five- acre site at Lakeside would mean the campus is
located close to the town centre, motorway network and Robin Hood Airport.

The greenfield site on Carolina Way, which already has outline planning
permission in place, is on the doorstep of a number of major rail and
engineering employers including DB Schenker, Volker Rail and Unipart.

Hitachi, which recently announced plans to take possession of a site at
Doncaster Carr to build a £70 million maintenance depot creating 160 jobs, will
also be close by.

Peter Dale, Director of Regeneration and Environment, said: "The Lakeside Campus
site is a prime location. It is in the heart of Doncaster and offers easy access
to road, rail and air links.

"Doncaster enjoys a rich rail heritage and this HS2 rail college would be a
rocket boost for our already expanding rail and engineering sector.

"This ready to go' site should be an attractive proposition for the Government
who, by choosing Doncaster, would help rebalance the national economy by
spreading the benefit of the planned HS2."

The bid to bring the college to Doncaster was recently submitted to Government
by the private sector led Centre for Rail And Technical Excellence CREATE,
coordinated by Doncaster Council and supported by Sheffield City Region Local
Enterprise Partnership, business leaders and partners across the region.

The HS2 rail college will be a research and teaching centre focused on
developing world class engineering skills.

It will help businesses develop and grow, offer excellent training for local
people, deliver quality jobs and drive economic growth.

People and businesses are being encouraged to back the bid' campaign at
www.businessdoncaster.com.

Mr Dale added: "I urge everyone to go online and back the bid to bring the
college to Doncaster. We are the home of rail engineering and innovation.

"We have the perfect location for the college and by choosing Doncaster it will
spread the benefit of HS2 and help rebalance the national economy. Doncaster
will capitalise on its rail engineering assets far quicker by assisting local
firms with their expansion plans."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEPB


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                             South Yorkshire Times

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

Proposed site for rail college bid is unveiled

LENGTH: 367  words


The location of the potential HS2 rail college in Doncaster is revealed today.

Doncaster Council say a five- acre site at Lakeside would mean the campus is
located close to the town centre, motorway network and Robin Hood Airport.

The greenfield site on Carolina Way, which already has outline planning
permission in place, is on the doorstep of a number of major rail and
engineering employers including DB Schenker, Volker Rail and Unipart.

Hitachi, which recently announced plans to take possession of a site at
Doncaster Carr to build a £70 million maintenance depot creating 160 jobs, will
also be close by.

Peter Dale, Director of Regeneration and Environment, said: "The Lakeside Campus
site is a prime location. It is in the heart of Doncaster and offers easy access
to road, rail and air links.

"Doncaster enjoys a rich rail heritage and this HS2 rail college would be a
rocket boost for our already expanding rail and engineering sector.

"This ready to go' site should be an attractive proposition for the Government
who, by choosing Doncaster, would help rebalance the national economy by
spreading the benefit of the planned HS2."

The bid to bring the college to Doncaster was recently submitted to Government
by the private sector led Centre for Rail And Technical Excellence CREATE,
coordinated by Doncaster Council and supported by Sheffield City Region Local
Enterprise Partnership, business leaders and partners across the region.

The HS2 rail college will be a research and teaching centre focused on
developing world class engineering skills.

It will help businesses develop and grow, offer excellent training for local
people, deliver quality jobs and drive economic growth.

People and businesses are being encouraged to back the bid' campaign at
www.businessdoncaster.com.

Mr Dale added: "I urge everyone to go online and back the bid to bring the
college to Doncaster. We are the home of rail engineering and innovation.

"We have the perfect location for the college and by choosing Doncaster it will
spread the benefit of HS2 and help rebalance the national economy. Doncaster
will capitalise on its rail engineering assets far quicker by assisting local
firms with their expansion plans."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NSYT


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              The Star (Sheffield)

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

Proposed site for rail college bid is unveiled

LENGTH: 367  words


The location of the potential HS2 rail college in Doncaster is revealed today.

Doncaster Council say a five- acre site at Lakeside would mean the campus is
located close to the town centre, motorway network and Robin Hood Airport.

The greenfield site on Carolina Way, which already has outline planning
permission in place, is on the doorstep of a number of major rail and
engineering employers including DB Schenker, Volker Rail and Unipart.

Hitachi, which recently announced plans to take possession of a site at
Doncaster Carr to build a £70 million maintenance depot creating 160 jobs, will
also be close by.

Peter Dale, Director of Regeneration and Environment, said: "The Lakeside Campus
site is a prime location. It is in the heart of Doncaster and offers easy access
to road, rail and air links.

"Doncaster enjoys a rich rail heritage and this HS2 rail college would be a
rocket boost for our already expanding rail and engineering sector.

"This ready to go' site should be an attractive proposition for the Government
who, by choosing Doncaster, would help rebalance the national economy by
spreading the benefit of the planned HS2."

The bid to bring the college to Doncaster was recently submitted to Government
by the private sector led Centre for Rail And Technical Excellence CREATE,
coordinated by Doncaster Council and supported by Sheffield City Region Local
Enterprise Partnership, business leaders and partners across the region.

The HS2 rail college will be a research and teaching centre focused on
developing world class engineering skills.

It will help businesses develop and grow, offer excellent training for local
people, deliver quality jobs and drive economic growth.

People and businesses are being encouraged to back the bid' campaign at
www.businessdoncaster.com.

Mr Dale added: "I urge everyone to go online and back the bid to bring the
college to Doncaster. We are the home of rail engineering and innovation.

"We have the perfect location for the college and by choosing Doncaster it will
spread the benefit of HS2 and help rebalance the national economy. Doncaster
will capitalise on its rail engineering assets far quicker by assisting local
firms with their expansion plans."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NSST


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          Thorne and District Gazette

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

Proposed site for rail college bid is unveiled

LENGTH: 367  words


The location of the potential HS2 rail college in Doncaster is revealed today.

Doncaster Council say a five- acre site at Lakeside would mean the campus is
located close to the town centre, motorway network and Robin Hood Airport.

The greenfield site on Carolina Way, which already has outline planning
permission in place, is on the doorstep of a number of major rail and
engineering employers including DB Schenker, Volker Rail and Unipart.

Hitachi, which recently announced plans to take possession of a site at
Doncaster Carr to build a £70 million maintenance depot creating 160 jobs, will
also be close by.

Peter Dale, Director of Regeneration and Environment, said: "The Lakeside Campus
site is a prime location. It is in the heart of Doncaster and offers easy access
to road, rail and air links.

"Doncaster enjoys a rich rail heritage and this HS2 rail college would be a
rocket boost for our already expanding rail and engineering sector.

"This ready to go' site should be an attractive proposition for the Government
who, by choosing Doncaster, would help rebalance the national economy by
spreading the benefit of the planned HS2."

The bid to bring the college to Doncaster was recently submitted to Government
by the private sector led Centre for Rail And Technical Excellence CREATE,
coordinated by Doncaster Council and supported by Sheffield City Region Local
Enterprise Partnership, business leaders and partners across the region.

The HS2 rail college will be a research and teaching centre focused on
developing world class engineering skills.

It will help businesses develop and grow, offer excellent training for local
people, deliver quality jobs and drive economic growth.

People and businesses are being encouraged to back the bid' campaign at
www.businessdoncaster.com.

Mr Dale added: "I urge everyone to go online and back the bid to bring the
college to Doncaster. We are the home of rail engineering and innovation.

"We have the perfect location for the college and by choosing Doncaster it will
spread the benefit of HS2 and help rebalance the national economy. Doncaster
will capitalise on its rail engineering assets far quicker by assisting local
firms with their expansion plans."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NTDG


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Brattleboro Reformer (Vermont)

                           December 3, 2011 Saturday

Gov. Shumlin sets goals for 2012

BYLINE: By HOWARD WEISS-TISMAN / Reformer Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 571 words


Saturday December 3, 2011

PUTNEY -- Gov. Peter Shumlin returned to his hometown of Putney, Friday, to talk
with regional business leaders at the annual December Brattleboro Area Chamber
of Commerce Breakfast.

The event is an opportunity for Vermont's governor to talk a little bit about
the upcoming Legislative session, and unveil some of the initiatives the
administration will be pursuing when lawmakers return to Montpelier.

Shumlin said the state will continue working to deliver broadband to every
corner of Vermont by 2013.

He also talked about the administration's commitment to education, and said he
will continue to push health care reform.

With his annual speech on the budget still more than a month away, Shumlin
didn't get into many specifics at the talk Friday. He did, however, talk about a
plan to boost high school graduation rates, and help Vermont students get a
better idea on what careers they might want to pursue after high school.

He said his plan, Careers to Kids, will bring professionals into the classroom,
and students into the workplace, to introduce teenagers to the realities of
finding a job and choosing a path in college.

Shumlin said that in Vermont, too often, children from families of high- and
middle-incomes have more opportunities when choosing a college and, in turn, a
post-college career.

"Too often income follows achievement," Shumlin said. "We want to break the back
of that income gap."

The governor wants eighth grades to work with professionals and find out "What
they make, and what it takes to get there."

And he said every high school senior should do an internship to get a jump into
the competitive job market they will be facing after school.

"Investing in education, from pre-K through college, is a sure way to keep the
state strong in the face of uncertain economic times," Shumlin said.

At the breakfast, which was held at The Putney Inn, Shumlin spent time talking
about two of his favorite and most challenging topics: universal health care and
broadband.

On healthcare, Shumlin acknowledged the challenges, both economical and
systemic, in creating an entirely new way of delivering health care in Vermont.
But he warned that rising health insurance costs would continue to cripple
business, adding that the worst state government could do is fail.

"If Vermont can get it right, then we win, and they lose," he said to critics.
"People say we can't afford to do this. I say we can't afford not to try."

Shumlin said the state faces economic and geographic obstacles as it tries to
deliver high-speed Internet to every home and business. But he said he still
believed it could be done, though it might take all 365 days of 2013 to reach
the deadline.

Shumlin played to the business audience, stressing the importance of buying
local this holiday season.

He said that after the challenges the state faced following Tropical Storm
Irene, Vermont is still in better financial shape than most of the other states
ravaged in August.

He acknowledged the volunteer help that was put forward following the flood, and
said that overall the state was in good shape to move forward on an ambitious
agenda that includes broadband, healthcare and education.

"There was so much pain following the flood, and today we stand here ready to go
into the holiday season," Shumlin said. "We have a lot to be proud of."

Howard Weiss-Tisman can be reached at hwtisman@reformer.com or 802-254-2311,
ext. 279.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Governor Peter Shumlin speaks about his plan for the future of Vermont
during the Brattleboro Area Chamber of Commerce breakfast at the Putney Inn,
Friday morning. (Zachary P. Stephens/Reformer)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                           December 12, 2013 Thursday

Recruiting expert set to speak to athletes at Costa Mesa High

BYLINE: By JOSEPH PIMENTEL, ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER

SECTION: CURRENTCM; Pg. C

LENGTH: 409 words


When it comes to the college recruitment process, expect to only hear the truth
from Jack Renkens.

Renkens is not a coach. He's not a recruiter. He's not a salesman.

Renkens is a nationally recognized college recruitment expert. When he stands in
front of coaches, parents and high school athletes today at Costa Mesa High
School, he'll present the common myths and the realities of college recruiting.

"I have a really strong message," Renkens said. "I'm not going in to sell
anything. I'm just here to tell the truth about the process. It's a game and
parents and high school coaches need to know the rules."

With the cost of higher education on the rise - public universities hovering
just around $18,000 and private schools at about $40,000, according to the
College Board - parents of student-athletes need to be realistic when it comes
to choosing colleges for their kids, Renkens said.

Renkens knows all about the recruiting game. He played basketball for the
University of Wisconsin. He coached in high school and a Division II college on
the East Coast.

It wasn't until his daughter Brooke started receiving attention playing high
school basketball that Renkens "woke up" about the recruiting process from the
parent's point of view. He soon realized how little parents and families know.

Renkens said only about 2 percent of high school athletes in the country will
receive some type of athletic scholarship for Division I and Division II. The
rest of the 98 percent will either pay to play as a walk-on or choose a Division
III school.

"The biggest misconception families have is that they think they can pick the
school their child will play for," Renkens said. "They all want their child to
go to USC, Stanford, Cal or UCLA. They don't say they want their child to go to
Chapman or Occidental, which are very good schools."

Renkens said he'll discuss other forms of scholarships such as merit-based,
academic and grants available for student-athletes. He said he wants parents to
be in a position to negotiate when choosing schools. He'll also talk about
social media.

"I don't just talk about recruiting," Renkens said. "There's Facebook, Internet,
texts, sexting. I have skits that are hardcore in-your-face. I'm trying to get
kids and parents to wake up. These days there's a reporter waiting outside your
door ready to take a video of you, take a photo, and the better you are, the
bigger the target you are."



714-796-7977 or jpimentel@ocregister.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            April 29, 2015 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Brain scans and other tests doing more harm than good

BYLINE: Harriet Alexander Health

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 524 words


Common medical procedures including brain scans, food allergy tests and
long-term reflux medication are unnecessary and possibly harmful for many
patients and should be radically reduced, doctors have warned.

Five of the peak specialty medical groups have identified 24 tests and
treatments that physicians and patients should question in a national "Choosing
Wisely" campaign that aims to influence treatment standards in hospitals and
medical practices across Australia.

Each college or association has listed five examples, including tests that lead
to false positives or expose patients to radiation without generating a useful
diagnosis, and treatments that new research has proved ineffective.

Among them are the routine use of CT scans for patients admitted into emergency
departments with head injuries, X-rays for lower back pain and testing the urine
culture of elderly patients who do not have symptoms of a urinary tract disease.

The College of General Practitioners nominated the long-term use of proton pump
inhibitors to treat stomach acid and reflux, which has experienced a 9 per cent
annual increase in prescription volume and cost $450 million last financial
year, but can potentially lead to adverse effects.

The Australasian Society of Clinical Immunology and Allergy nominated food
allergy tests such as pin pricks in patients where there is no evidence that
allergies play a role in their symptoms.

The Australian College of Emergency Medicine's immediate past president Sally
McCarthy said 40 to 60 per cent of diagnostic tests were of little or no benefit
to patients.

Most of the tests and treatments identified by the colleges were known to be
ineffective, but junior doctors and nurses could be more prone to ordering
unnecessary tests because they did not want to miss anything, she said.

The Choosing Wisely campaign, co-ordinated by the not-for-profit organisation
NPS MedicineWise, has been modelled on similar United States initiative.

Diagnosis negative

Recommendations of the Australian College for Emergency Medicine, Australasian
Society of Clinical Immunology and

Allergy, Royal Australian College of General Practitioners, Royal Australian and
New Zealand College of Radiologists,

Royal College of Pathologists of Australasia

PROCEDURE WHY IT'S NOT NEEDED

CT scan for Most emergency head injuries

head injury do not require immediate

neurosurgical intervention

Food-specific Allergy testing without relevant

allergy testing clinical history may lead to

unnecessary dietrestrictions,

particularly in children.

ECGs, heart Harms of ECGs and stress tests

stress tests found to equal or exceed potential

benefits in patients without

symptoms of vascular disease.

PROCEDURE WHY IT'S NOT NEEDED

Prescribing Patients at risk of respiratory

benzodiazepines depression, heavy sedation,

to patients with coma and death when combined

substance abuse with other depressants.

X-ray for acute Costly. Lower limb or bladder

lower back pain dysfunction should be present

X-ray of cervical Costly. Significant radiation

spine in trauma exposure to a large number of

patients patients, very few of whomwill

have a spinal column injury.

SOURCE: NPS MEDICINEWISE

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2015 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                             March 12, 2013 Tuesday

Things to consider when picking a school

BYLINE: Ayana Lyttle; Voice Correspondenta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 543 words


As second semester continues, seniors have turned their focus to graduation.

Students who have decided to continue their education may find it difficult to
choose which community college, four-year institution or technical school is
right for them. There are many factors to consider when choosing a college,
including the type of school, location, campus atmosphere, student body,
extracurricular activities and cost In the classroom Students first must decide
what type of school they want to attend. There are community colleges where you
can earn an associate's (two-year) degree and then look for a job or head to a
four-year school.

There are four-year colleges and universities. A college is an institution that
offers a collection of undergraduate degrees. For example, Illinois College in
Jacksonville offers a range of liberal arts degrees. A university offers both
undergraduate and graduates degrees, and often has several colleges or schools
within it The University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign is home to 17 colleges and
schools.

There are also technical institutions where a student can learn a specific
trade, such as dental hygienist.

An important thing to remember when choosing a school is academics. You might
have your heart set on a specific college or university, but if it doesn't offer
your intended major, it won't be a great fit.

Some colleges serve a specific audience. Are you interested in an all-girls
school or a historically black college?

Location For some students venturing far from home can be scary, while others
see branching out as fun and educational. My most important factor proved to be
location. I want to attend a school that's far away from Illinois.

Students also have to decide whether to attend school in a big city or a more
rural area. In addition, it's important to examine the campus. Some schools
offer an open campus, which basically means anyone can enter the grounds. Other
schools have closed campuses and only students and staff can enter.

It's also important to identify the size of the campus you'd like to attend.

If you attend a school with a big campus, there will likely be a lot of walking.

Visit the schools you're considering to get the feel of the campus. A student
may find what seems to be the perfect school, but once he or she gets a taste of
the campus, it's really the right fit. I happened to feel at home at each school
I applied to. I visited Spelman College in Atlanta, an all-women's school, and
Florida A&M University, a school with an open campus.

Hampton University is in my hometown - Hampton, Va. I am also interested in
Howard University in Washington, D.C.

Size matters Consider a school's student body. There are schools with a few
hundred people, while bigger campuses may be home to 40,000 students. Ask what
the class sizes are like. Is it important to you to have smaller classes, or do
you think you'd do well in large lecture halls?

Finally

A key factor is the cost.

Tuition at four-year institutions can range from less than $7,000 to more than
$40,000 each year. Don't forget to factor in books and housing. Apply for as
many scholarships and grants as possible. No one wants to be paying off student
loans forever.

Ayana Lyttle is a senior at Lanphier High School

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                              June 23, 2017 Friday

SEE graduates walk miles in search of better schools and courses

LENGTH: 969 words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, June 23 -- On June 16, the Office of the Controller of Examinations (OCE)
published the results of the first Secondary Education Examination (SEE),
previously known as the School Leaving Certificate (SLC) exams. Since then, SEE
graduates have been wandering around in groups in order to check out colleges.
After the publication of the results, colleges, especially those in the cities,
have been flocked with students who have come from different corners of the
country to find a college that is good enough for them.

The presence of too many colleges has left the students confused while some
young minds are still indecisive of what to study. Choosing an appropriate
subject and suitable college has been quite challenging for them. Teenagers, who
in the past did everything as directed by their parents, have finally realized
that they have grown up. This probably is the first time when young students are
compelled to make a serious decision in their lives that will play a vital role
in shaping their careers.

Even after taking career counseling classes, listening to the advices of
parents, teachers and experts, only a few of them have been able to make up
their minds while many are still in a huge dilemma. Normally, students pass SEE
at 16 or 17 which is a tender age. There are enough colleges in Nepal which
offer a variety of courses. But more choices have further confused the students.

Shibani Thapa, 16, who recently passed her SEE with A grade, was already
prepared about what to study after crossing the Iron Gate. She says she always
wanted to become a doctor. So, she had already made up her mind to take science
as her major subject ever since she was in Grade eight. But when it comes to
choosing the college, she seems a bit confused. She said that she wants to get
admitted to either St. Xavier's College or Prasadi Academy. "So, I have decided
to appear for the entrance exams of both the colleges," said Shibani.

Similarly, Binita Karki of Nakhipot who passed SEE with C grades has visited
around 16 colleges of Kathmandu by now but has yet not been able to choose the
right' college. "I want to study Management in plus two but the highly-reputed
colleges are not ready to enroll me as I don't have sufficient grades," said
Karki, adding "Yes, there are other colleges as well but I am not satisfied with
their facilities, services and results and now I'm totally confused what to do."

Namgyal Lama, who was seen outside White House College on Tuesday, has chosen
Science as his subject. "My elder sister also completed her Plus Two from this
college. So, she and many of my teachers have recommended this college to me,"
said Lama. According to him, White House meets all the requirements to be his
dream college. He also said that a lot of his friends are busy checking out
colleges. "It is very much important for us to understand the significance,
facilities and opportunities provided by colleges, making sure that we won't
have to regret it later. So, it is wise to take advice from the passed out
students and elders," Lama added.

Anuj Khatiwada who recently came to Kathmandu from Bhojpur along with his
parents looking for a college for his higher studies wanted to study science.
So, he made a list of some reputed colleges of Kathmandu which had a good
reputation. But after checking out around 13 colleges, he seemed really
disappointed especially with the fee structures. According to him, most of the
well-known colleges are not affordable for students from average income
families. "It is so unfair that there are rarely few government institutions for
plus two due to which students are obliged to pay high fees," he said.

It has been around two years since Nepal government introduced the grading
system which has become a trouble for some students. As per the grading system,
students are compelled to choose subjects on the basis of their grades. This has
ultimately forbidden some from choosing the subject of their choice.

Following in the footsteps of his brother, 17-year old Nishes KC of Samakhushi
had dreamed of becoming an engineer but his dream was shattered as soon as he
saw his SEE results. He passed SEE with C grades and no reputed college is ready
to enroll him in the Science faculty. There are some colleges which are ready to
consider his grades and allow him to take the subject of his dream but KC is not
impressed with various aspects of those colleges. "No matter whichever subject I
chose, I am not ready to compromise with the quality of education," KC Said.
This has obliged him to change his subject but he is not sure as to what to
study. He is also worried that his decision might lead him to a career where he
will have to live with frustrations and tensions.

In our society, students with higher grades are under pressure to study Science.
Parents keep on pressurizing their kids to take science if they score higher
grades without confirming what their kids want. Students are obliged to choose
the subject of their parents' choice because at the end of the day it's their
parents who are going to pay their school bills. However, it is not fair to say
that the subjects chosen by the parents are always not suitable for their
children. There are some students who get admitted to particular colleges just
because their friends are enrolled there. But it is very important for the
students to be sensible and tactful while deciding what they want to study after
SEE. They must not forget to take suggestions and advices from their elders but
they should not pick a certain course just because their parents want them to
pick that course.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Republica. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2017 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           November 13, 2014 Thursday

Third one s a charm for travel and career options;
A third language is a requirement for most NUI courses and for many courses at
other colleges

SECTION: SPECIAL REPORTS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 846 words


Do I need a third language, other than English and Irish? Different colleges and
courses have different requirements when it comes to languages.

Research your preferred courses and meet the language requirements for them. I
would recommend that all students take up a third language. Not only is it
desirable for travel and careers, but by dropping a language early on, you are
making yourself ineligible for hundreds of courses on the CAO which you may
regret later on in the year. A third language is also necessary for entry into
the cadetship in the Army or the Air Corps.

Do I need a third language for entry on to an NUI course? The National
University of Ireland (NUI) represents University College Dublin (UCD),
University College Cork (UCC), NUI Galway and NUI Maynooth. For entry into any
of these universities, English, Irish and a third language is necessary. Recent
exceptions have been made however. The faculties of science, agriculture, and
engineering, and courses in nursing, no longer require a third language.

Students entering the National College of Art and Design (NCAD) can select art
instead of a third language.

What about other colleges? Outside of the NUI colleges, the requirement is
generally for two languages. Trinity College Dublin (TCD), University of
Limerick (UL) and Dublin College University (DCU) each accept Irish as a second
language and therefore students can get away with not choosing a third. None of
the institutes of technology require a third language.

Be aware however that a language must be studied and practised over time. If you
change your mind and wish to take one up later on in the year, you are far less
likely to achieve a good grade in it. Most schools have made a third language
compulsory for students so that they are not limited when it comes to the CAO.

How do I decide which third language to choose? Most students tend to continue
on with a language they studied for the Junior Cert. A strong base has been
achieved at this stage. If you are interested in studying languages, the number
of courses offering a language option has increased greatly, such as courses in
journalism, business and commerce.

It is important to look at the specific requirements needed for entry to these
courses. Usually a C3 in higher level is necessary for entry. For example,
French is required for studying law and French at TCD and UCC, for business and
french at TCD, and for law with French law or BCL Maitrise in UCD.

Also take into consideration whether or not your desired course has an Erasmus
programme. Your chances of being sent to a country you prefer are increased when
you can speak the language.

Which language is the most popular? French is the most popular choice for a
third language in the Leaving Cert. Almost 26,500 students sat the French exam
in 2014.

German is the second most popular choice of language in the Leaving Cert, with
more than 6,800 students sitting the paper in 2014. Germany has become one of
the strongest economies in Europe and therefore grasping the language will
greatly benefit students in the future.

Spanish is becoming increasingly more popular as a Leaving Cert subject. Spanish
is the second most spoken language in the world today, and more than 5,300
Leaving Cert students sat this paper in 2014.

Although the number of students choosing Italian remains smaller (about 330
students in 2014), the number of students choosing Italian is still
significantly higher than the remaining 11 languages. Italian is not required to
study for any third degree course, but it is strongly advised if you wish to
study it further in college.

Other language subjects to choose from (and the number of students who sat the
2014 Leaving Cert paper for these subjects) include Japanese (298), Russian
(309), Arabic (127), Latin (108), Ancient Greek (<10) and Hebrew Studies (<10).

Am I eligible to sit a noncurricular EU language Leaving Cert paper? Additional
noncurricular EU languages are available for students who meet certain criteria.
These additional languages do not appear in the regular school curriculum but
students can choose to be examined in these subjects if they:

(i) are from a member state of the European Union;  (ii) speak the language in
which they opt to be examined in as a mother tongue (ie this is your native
language);  (iii) have followed a programme of study leading to the Leaving Cert
and;  (iv) are studying Leaving Cert English.

Students may sit the Leaving Cert exam paper for only one noncurricular language
only. These languages include Latvian, Lithuanian, Romanian, modern Greek,
Finnish, Polish, Estonian, Slovakian, Swedish, Czech, Bulgarian, Hungarian,
Portuguese, Danish and Dutch. These subjects are not an essential requirement
for any courses in the CAO system.

Noncurricular languages are studied outside of school. No books or materials are
available, but past papers and marking schemes are available
online(examinations.ie). The exams are three hours and consist of reading and
understanding of a written passage, as well as an essay (personal writing).

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                          September 02, 2015 Wednesday
                                   E1 Edition

Choose a course that has kept up with the times;
It's important to make sure what you study meets industry needs

SECTION: WORKPLACE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 660 words


It's more important than ever to choose a course that meets industry needs and
is relevant to the times in which we live and work, says Natalie Rabson of
Boston City Campus & Business College.

"We're entering the period when people have to make their final choices
regarding their studies for next year," she points out. "Most of us send
applications for two or three courses and then have to narrow down to one single
one - this is quite hard to do."

Though there are many things to consider, Rabson believes it is important to
look at courses that are regarded as valuable by employers and that appear on
employers' wish lists. This is especially significant seeing that the economy is
still in the midst of one of its most challenging periods.

"Eeny, meeny, miney, mo is definitely not the way to go when choosing a course.
You need to choose a course that is considered 'hot' at the moment. When times
are tough, people and companies focus on the have-to-haves and not on the
nice-to-haves," she says.

"Nowadays, companies hold on to employees who offer them skills that they have
to have to continue operating at a profit.

"And when employers recruit new people, they only look at CVs of those whose
qualifications are on their wish lists."

How do you find out if a course or qualification meets industry needs and
appears on employers' wish lists? Start by reading as many job ads as possible
because they show what employers want and need. Job ads show not only
qualifications but also the work experience and personality traits employers
desire in candidates.

Second, assess the credentials of the colleges and varsities that offer the
courses that you're interested in. It is ideal to visit campuses, so you can see
if the facilities, equipment and course material are up to date and relevant to
the workplace.

And, of course, the college should liaise with industry in order to assess
industry requirements, as well as to offer opportunities to their graduates.

"There's no point in learning to use software or hardware that is no longer in
use," says Rabson.

"Finding a job will be difficult after graduating if you study skills or
equipment that are outdated and not relevant to the workplace."

Education is not static and for that reason Boston City Campus & Business
College keeps in contact with various industries, updates course material, and
introduces new courses on a regular basis.

"Our research, for example, showed that there was a gap for a qualification that
develops skills in the social media and digital marketing fields and so we
launched the Boston BCom Management Marketing," she says.

"This degree equips students with the knowledge and skills for career
opportunities in the fields of business, management and marketing, focusing on
digital marketing, social media and brand management - all buzzwords in the
marketing field of today."

Another example is the module on cloud computing, which was added to keep IT
courses in line with the demand from employers.

"When legislation changes, for instance in private law or taxation, we amend our
study material accordingly and as fast as possible."

When choosing a course of study it is important to check that it has the right
government and industry accreditation.

"The best thing is to go see a career adviser who can help you choose a
valuable, accredited course," says Rabson.

"Boston City Campus & Business College offers over 80 dynamic study options at
our campuses nationwide, plus Unisa degrees and media studies at selected
campuses, so we understand prospective students need a helping hand in choosing
the course that fits them perfectly.

"We offer this career advice service free of change as part of our corporate
social investment and invite you to enquire about tertiary studies as
applications for 2016 are now open."

For more information, contact Boston City Campus & Business College at 011 551
2000, e-mail info@boston.co.za, visitwww.boston.co.za or find the college on
Facebook.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                Copyright 2015 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday

Change Centralized Admission Process criteria, urges MLC Ganar

BYLINE: Abhishek Choudhari

SECTION: NAGPUR

LENGTH: 449 words


NAGPUR: The Centralized Admission Process (CAP) has come under fire from the
local MLC because of its criteria for choosing students. In city students can
get admission to junior colleges (for science stream) by registering with the
CAP. MLC NG Ganar (teachers constituency) says choosing students on the basis of
their percentage should not be the first criteria for shortlisting.

"Proximity of the junior college from the student's residence should be the
first criteria of selection. Currently they are admitting students based on the
cut-off marks obtained in Std X, which means that someone from Mahal area gets a
Ramdaspeth college and vice-versa. When students travel such long distances
their safety on road also becomes a concern," said Ganar.

Ganar raised the 'intellectual disparity' among students due to the current
shortlist criteria. "The top college would have students only who have scored
over 90% in the board exams, while the least preferred college would be filled
with those scoring approximately 40%. Where is the motivation for the latter
students to do better? Since everyone is a low scorer academically we will see
no improvement and the quality of education will suffer," he said.

In CAP only junior colleges within city limits are considered and till last year
both science and commerce streams were included. However, for the 2012-13
academic session only science stream will be included in the process. There are
various criteria which CAP uses when giving admission, which does include the
residential area of the student.

However, CAP officials feel that the demand cannot be fulfilled due to various
technicalities involved. Baban Taywade, member of the CAP committee, said,
"Changing the first criteria to residential basis is impossible. Everywhere in
Maharashtra, where CAP has been implemented, the marks obtained in Std X are
used as the basic eligibility criteria. In CAP we consider the entire city as a
unit and if we give residential preference then only students in Congress Nagar
and close areas will get admission to Shivaji Science College. Why should a
student residing in the far end of Nagpur be deprived of studying at a top
college?"

Deepak Bajaj said, "I think the current system's criteria is perfect as it gives
freedom of choice to students on where they want to study."

Ganar's point of view is valid as he does not want students to travel too far
for studies, but if ultimately the student or their parents should make the
decision. If my child scores 98% in Std X and is eligible to get admission to a
top college at the other end of Nagpur, it would be unfair to restrict him
because of residential criteria."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                Intelligencer Journal (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

                           October 14, 2006 Saturday

Starting young;
Fritz Elementary students get an early taste of college life at F&M

BYLINE: Madelyn Pennino

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 398  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


MADELYN PENNINO

Fritz Elementary School first- and second-graders skipped recess Friday morning
for a taste of higher education.

Fritz students in Doreen Hershey and Mindy Fineberg's first- and second-grade
classes toured Franklin & Marshall College's campus and learned a little about
what life would be like as a college student.

Second-grader Matthew Colosi said he was excited for the trip.

"I wanted to meet some college people," Colosi said.

F&M students took Matthew and his classmates on a tour of the school's library,
Steinman Student Center, a dormitory and other buildings on campus. Students
also ate in Kinnery Suite, a separate dining area from the main student dining
hall.

Students started their tour at the Alumni Sports & Fitness Center.

"I really like the gym area," second-grader Landon Hertzler said. "I've been
here before, because my brothers swim here."

Second-grader Amani Howard-Earle also thought the gym was neat.

"The pool looks like so much fun!" Amani said.

Every other year, Hershey organizes a field trip to a local college. This is the
first time Fritz students have visited F&M.

Hershey said the excursion is a great experience for students.

"I wish I would have known what college was like when I was young," she said.

Hershey said students should be exposed to college at an early age.

"If it's not in their head, they might not shoot for it," Hershey said. "I still
have sixth-graders who talk about their college visit. They form some sort of
allegiance to the college they see."

Franklin & Marshall provided gift bags for each student, containing souvenirs
such as an F&M folder, a poster and M&Ms, known to college students as "F&Ms."

The college also provided each tour group with a camera to take pictures with as
a way to remember the day.

Second-grader Jenna Comp said she enjoyed visiting the college.

"I really love it," Jenna said. "It's a really cool place to learn and have fun.
I'm going to work hard and study so I can go to college here."

Jenna's mom, Donna Comp, said teachers do a good job at choosing field trips.

"It's terrific," Comp said. "The teachers are great at choosing unique
experiences for students to enjoy at a young age and expose them to something
they can look forward to."

But some students aren't thinking that far ahead. Ciara Varela-Keen, a
first-grader, said she was just happy to visit a new place.

"It's my first field trip," she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.

                              355 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             May 7, 2014 Wednesday

Finding Accredited Online Colleges: 5 Things to Look For

LENGTH: 296  words

DATELINE: Schaumburg


American InterContinental University has issued the following news release:

Logging on and learning Java Script in your pajamas or studying Introduction to
Business while also folding laundry may sound like a dream come true for many
students, but perks like these are just a few among many important factors a
prospective student should take into consideration when thinking about choosing
an accredited online college.

Online universities offer several obvious advantages, but as with
brick-and-mortar institutions, the amount of options out there can make choosing
the right one seem impossible. When you're looking at a sea of names on a
computer screen, distinguishing one from the other takes a bit of work. However,
putting the time and effort into deciding which school is right for you can make
a world of difference in your educational experience.

The first thing to do is make sure you choose a regionally accredited online
university. Next, consider these five factors.

Look for Resources Available to Students

Joanne M. Deck, a former online educator and a career coach for Nurture You,
recommends that prospective students make use of the research tools at their
disposal.

"Students will want to thoroughly explore the school's website, press[#x2028]
releases and social media pages. They should make sure there is an accessible
technology help desk and student tutorials for learning the[#x2028] school's
online platform," she says. "They should also talk to advisement and[#x2028]
counseling to see what resources are available for choosing a major,
transferring credits, acclimating to school, and being connected as an online
student. If the student can't find this information easily from the school,
that's a red flag right there."

For more information please visit: http://www.aiuniv.edu

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              March 6, 2015 Friday

Tennessee: SIAC Tournament Update

LENGTH: 1073  words

DATELINE: Nashville


Lane College, The state of Tennessee has issued the following news release:

With the Men and Women's Basketball regular season coming to an end on Monday
Night, one more game in the conference was still on the schedule. Kentucky State
University played #1 Stillman College. Kentucky State came out victorious 81-73
over Stillman and vaulted the Lane College Men's Basketball team in a 1st place
tie for the Western Division of the SIAC. Stillman College and the Dragons are
now tied with a 13-6 conference record headed into the SIAC Championship
Tournament next week. With the tie breaker system the Dragons will enter the
Championship tournament as a # 2 seed, and will face Fort Valley State on
Tuesday Night to start their journey through the tourney. Congrats to Coach
Basemore and the Dragons basketball team for a great regular season.

Seven beautiful young ladies will vie for the title of Miss Lane College on
Thursday February 26, 2015 at 6:00 p.m. in the Graves Auditorium, located in the
Chambers-McClure Academic Center

"Lent Message from Senior Bishop Lawrence Reddick."
Lent: Choosing What Is Worth More

"Turn my eyes from watching what is worthless ...."

Dear CME Family:

Greetings in the name of our Lord Jesus!

The late Bishop Joseph Coles impressed me during his episcopal ministry as one
who could say a lot with a few words. (I often wondered if his gift was related
to the necessity of him to economize as he adjusted after a stroke early in his
episcopal ministry. Not having observed his preaching as much beforehand, I did
not know.)

I believe it was a conference teaching session (I'm not sure; memory fails me!)
when I heard him say, "Discipline is choosing the greater over the lesser. That'
what it is: choosing the greater over the lesser."

One day in devotional time, I heard that theme anew when I read Psalm 119, verse
37, in the Revised Standard Version:

Turn my eyes from watching what is worthless;
give me life in your ways.
I don't exactly remember why the verse stopped me that day ... but it did. It
stopped me and moved me from being "in devotional time" to being "in study
time." And I began to look up words in English and in Hebrew. I heard the word
"worthless" as two words - "worth less." And I heard Bishop Coles' definition of
discipline, and considered the question, "What is worth more?" The result was
that "study time" resulted in even greater devotional time ... because I wanted
to know and choose those things that were worth more.

The word "choose" is important - at least, for a few moments. It was important
some days ago when I was challenged to find the right message for a worship
service led by the East Texas Region ushers. Of course, I looked at Psalms 84,
which includes the words, "I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God,
than to dwell in the tents of wickedness." Yet, the psalm starts with words
descriptive of the pull, the magnetism, the joy, and, yes, the fullness and the
glory of getting into God's house - "How amiable are thy tabernacles, O Lord
...." Amiable is from a Hebrew word that means "lovely, beloved, pleasant."

Then I saw that the words translated "I would rather be" (a doorkeeper ...) in
verse 10 of Psalm 84 are from the word, babar, which can mean, "choosing,
distinguishing, proving, trying, selecting." Thus, the psalmist is saying, out
of a culture where the "tent of God's presence" existed among other "tents" in
Israel's camp: "I choose to be in God's tent rather that in the tents of wicked
folk!" The word "choose" is important; it is highlighted by our conscious
actions.

But those of us who have been disciples just a little while know that we don't
always choose what is good, or what is better, or what is worth more rather than
what is worth less. And so, like the psalmist in Psalms 119:37, we pray for
God's help, asking God:

Turn my eyes from watching what is worthless;
give me life in your ways.
In this prayer, a key word is turn (rather than choose). The Hebrew translated
"turn" is abar, and it means, "to move beyond," or "to move from here to there,"
or "to transfer." And so the psalmist is praying (and when we recite the psalm,
we can also be praying), "Move me, Lord; move me beyond this to that. Move me
beyond what is worth less to that which is worth more":
-- move me from focusing on things that are lesser;
-- move me from focusing on things that have little value;
-- set my sights on greater things,
-- and give me life through your direction.
Lent is an important personal time. For some of us, it is "taking off": "What
will you give up?" we ask. But I am wondering if we might also learn to "take
on." This becomes my new Lenten question: "What will you ... and what will I ...
take on for Christ?" Yes, it is an important personal time. But when we ask that
question together ("What will you ... and what will I ... take on for Christ?"),
Lent also becomes an important communal time - a time when God's community is
asking that question together and the community is strengthened by the honest
asking. And so it is not just you or I - but all of God's Church ... the Church
that is God's and is holy and is catholic ... uses this time between Ash
Wednesday and Easter Sunday to pray that God will turn our eyes from things and
thoughts that are worth less to things and thoughts that are worth more, and to
act by choosing through discipline those that are greater over those that are
lesser.

Elsewhere in these web pages and announcements, The College of Bishops calls the
CME Church to "corporate prayer and fasting." It is a call to discipline. As you
read the call, think about things that are worth more. The call is about
becoming a CME Church that is focused on being available to God as God makes us
better disciples. We want those things that are worth more ... for all of us.
The theme, borrowing from the ipads and iphones world and yet moving beyond it,
is, "iFast, iPray, WeGrow."

Those who have followed the past Winter Quarter's series of Sunday School
lessons have a head start for this Season - because worshipping, praying,
fasting, and living in greater stewardship were our themes for December and
January and February. Now, during this Lenten Season, let us join together as a
Church in choosing the greater over the lesser, in praying and fasting that God
will do what we and the Psalmist ask:

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Brunswick News (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 3, 2012 Friday

Where the jobs are

BYLINE: Michael Hall, The Brunswick News, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 515 words


Aug. 03--Mike Kennedy knew early on he wanted the satisfaction of working with
his hands.

So when he was a high school student thinking about a career, he had no
intentions of winding up behind a desk.

Now, Kennedy is a welder for PaR Marine in Brunswick, working on components for
military ships.

"It is satisfying to build things, especially on the scope we do it," Kennedy
said while taking his welder's mask off for a short break from welding a bracket
used on a vertical package conveyor.

Kennedy does not plan on leaving PaR anytime soon and hopes one day to move up
the ladder.

Careers like the one Kennedy has in manufacturing will likely see plenty of
growth in the future, according to a local economist.

Don Mathews, director of the Coastal Center for Economic Analysis and Student
Research at College of Coastal Georgia, says there is a national shortage of
skilled tradesmen like Kennedy that has created a great demand for their
services.

"It has gotten so bad in the U.S. that firms are recruiting workers from outside
the country," he said.

If he were advising high school juniors and seniors on choosing a career path,
Mathews would suggest skilled trades to those students who do not plan to earn a
bachelor's degree, because they tend to be well-paying jobs with good benefits.

"If I were a student now and was the slightest bit interested, I would go into
manufacturing," Mathews said.

Mathews says medical careers, like nursing, are also in high demand, as are
people with knowledge of technology, math and science.

In the end, though, Mathews says choosing a career based on passion is generally
the right choice.

"If you pursue something you love, chances are you will be good at it," Mathews
said. If he had to do it all over again, he would still be an economist, he
added.

Kristy Starke, president of Golden Isles Employment Network, says choosing the
proper avenue to training is as important as the career choice for high school
students.

"At that point, they have to make some critical choice in their lives," Starke
said.

Whether studying nursing at College of Coastal Georgia, learning a trade through
Altamaha Technical College or joining the military, making the right
post-secondary educational choice is paramount, Starke said.

Sam Hall, spokesman for the Georgia Department of Labor, echoes Starke's
sentiments.

"There have been a lot of people with high levels of education that have lost
jobs," Hall said. They have been unable to find replacement positions that
require the same education level, he added.

Whereas in the past it was believed the path to prosperity was only through
adding college degrees to a resume, today the demand is for more specific
training.

"At the same time we have seen a demand in Georgia by companies in need of
workers with very specific skills," Hall said. "Everybody does not need a
college degree these days. But a college degree is still excellent to have,
depending on the field."

___ (c)2012 The Brunswick News (Brunswick, Ga.) Visit The Brunswick News
(Brunswick, Ga.) at www.thebrunswicknews.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120803-GE-Where-the-jobs-are-0803-20120803

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GE


                       Copyright 2012 The Brunswick News

                              358 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                             July 2, 2014 Wednesday

GOING THROUGH admissions WRINGER

LENGTH: 433 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, July 2 -- Berth pangs for students

Delhi University witnessed a huge crowd on the first day of admissions. While
top colleges like Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC) and Hindu saw long queues,
even colleges like Ramjas and Miranda House got a good response. South Campus
colleges like Lady Sri Ram, Sri Venkateshwara, Kamla Nehru and Gargi, too, saw
students from all over the country.

Students were seen visiting colleges to find out where they were eligible for
admission. Meanwhile, several students were seen choosing SRCC over Hindu,
Hansraj, Kirori Mal and even St Stephens. Debby Jain, a student of Queen Mary
School said that she wanted admission in SRCC merely because of the reputation.
"I got 97.25 per cent in Class XII and I wanted to get admission in a college
which promises me a good future. While St Stephen's College is the most reputed
college in DU, SRCC has a reputation attached to it as well which I like," said
Jain.

Surprisingly, students were seen choosing Hindu College over LSR as well. "My
daughter was eligible for History (Hons) in both the colleges but she wants to
pursue it in Hindu as the culture is friendlier here," said Ramkishore, a parent
from Delhi, whose daughter got 99 per cent.

However, SRCC received the maximum admissions. In fact, the Economics Honours
course of SRCC was left almost houseful with 102 seats out of 123. This has left
SRCC aspirants for Economic (Hons) with only 20 more seats to grab. Seats for
Commerce (H) have also been half filled. Out of 501 seats, 268 were taken by
students by Tuesday afternoon. With this kind of a response it is likely that
SRCC would close admissions with the second list.

Hindu College received a decent response as well with 250 out of 729 seats being
filled. Hindu had the highest cut off for BCom Honours which was 99.75 per cent.
However, this course received only 10 admissions. This cut-off is expected to be
lowered with the coming lists. Miranda House managed to fill up one fifth of its
seats on Tuesday itself with History, Philosophy and Science being most popular.
Kirori Mal College also received 388 admissions for 1400 seats.

Most colleges are expecting more candidates on Wednesday as they feel that
parents usually analyse their eligibility and then come. However, the second
list -which is coming out on July 4 - may see a major difference in Hindu
College and Hansraj College specifically.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                              July 20, 2008 Sunday

Siblings turn coach's advice into career success

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: CAREER

LENGTH: 880 words


What a great two days last week for Major League Baseball. You had the
compelling story of Josh Hamilton of the Texas Rangers and his 71-year-old
batting practice pitcher on Monday evening, with Mr. Hamilton launching 28
homers in the first round of the Home Run Derby. Then, we're treated to a
15-inning masterpiece on Tuesday ending with an American League victory... great
stuff!

Continuing with the theme of my last column, let's chronicle another success
story, this time for three young clients who happen to be siblings. These
circumstances are being related for a couple of reasons. The first has to do
with the fact that they were triggered by parents who read a column or two here
and decided to call and engage my services for their children. Second, it will
hopefully inspire others to consider a similar regimen for their own self or
family members... sincerely, there is no attempt to be self-serving here.

Several years ago, a couple had read a column that had to do with students
finding their way in a very difficult job market. They called my office,
referenced the article and arranged a meeting involving all five of them.

The parents were challenged financially -- all three children would be in
college at the same time, and the financial burden must have been overwhelming.
But they are to be commended for having the very best interest of their children
at heart, and saw the return on investment (ROI) potential of having their loved
ones coached toward meaningful and fulfilling career/lives.

The youngest was a high school junior who starred in field hockey, ice hockey
and lacrosse. Her parents were not necessarily concerned about college
admittance -- due to their daughter's athletic prowess -- but they did wish to
assist her in choosing a major and needed help determining which schools to
visit that spring and summer.

My new young client did not have a clue as to what she wanted to be when she
"grew up" except to know her immediate future would be dominated by her athletic
pursuits. This was a relatively easy one for me, since I partner with a life
coach certified to deliver the Meyers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) and Strong
Interest Inventory.

As for level of assessment, the obvious choice would have been to administer the
high school editions, it was my judgment to go with the college-level -- and I
was very pleased at the results. Once tested and the assessment explained, the
parents were well on their way to scheduling a college visitation schedule.

Fast-forward to today, and the young lady is enjoying a summer internship with a
local Fortune 500 company. She has completed her junior year at an Ivy League
University as the leading goal scorer in the league and elected captain for her
senior campaign. And, oh yeah, she is carrying a 3.1 cumulative grade point
average, including a 3.7 in her major.

Next in line was an older brother who happened to be pretty darn sure of his
career path. He was enrolled at a well-respected Boston area college with hopes
to enter law enforcement. While he was doing extremely well academically, his
and his parents' concern was choosing smart internships.

Coaching him through my Career/Life Fitness program yielded several
breakthroughs and he was empowered to pursue a specific set of possible
internships. Interestingly, we found that in his chosen field there were some
positions that were paid but a whole lot more that weren't.

This young man was extremely focused, very coachable and possessed a serious
drive to achieve his goals. Based on my "numbers game" philosophy, he was able
to secure several interviews, scored three offers and wound up choosing an
internship at the Middlesex County courthouse in Cambridge. While the duties
seemed rather mundane -- he was apparently capable of carrying a greater load --
the experience proved to be rewarding and further fueled his fire toward a
future in law enforcement.

Upon graduating (summa cum laude), he just a few weeks ago began his career as
an FBI agent in the Boston office... needless to say, he is "jacked to the max."

Client No. 3 was the oldest of the siblings and a junior at a western
Massachusetts college. This young man had not had any related internships to
date and he and his parents were concerned about this late start.

Targeting a career in teaching physical education and coaching, it was
pedal-to-the-metal time. So beginning with writing his Resume Trilogy, taking
him Beyond Networking along with our Red Zone Interview Strategy were called
for. A few phone calls later, he scored a summer camp counselor position. That
job networked him with his future employer, an eastern Massachusetts public
elementary school and a connection that enabled him to land his first high
school coaching job.

I love it when a plan, in this case a family plan, comes together.

Clearly it is enjoyable to chronicle these successes. But more than anything
else, Mom and Dad are to be commended for realizing the importance of coaching.

Ed Adamowicz, CPCC, is chairman and head coach of TOTAL PACKAGE Professional
Coaching (www.totalpackageprocoach.com), a Boxboro-based provider of career
coaching, resume writing, interview training and corporate consulting. Readers
are invited to submit questions via e-mail to coached@the-totalpackage.com .

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              March 6, 2015 Friday

Tennessee: SIAC Tournament Update

LENGTH: 1073  words

DATELINE: Nashville


Lane College, The state of Tennessee has issued the following news release:

With the Men and Women's Basketball regular season coming to an end on Monday
Night, one more game in the conference was still on the schedule. Kentucky State
University played #1 Stillman College. Kentucky State came out victorious 81-73
over Stillman and vaulted the Lane College Men's Basketball team in a 1st place
tie for the Western Division of the SIAC. Stillman College and the Dragons are
now tied with a 13-6 conference record headed into the SIAC Championship
Tournament next week. With the tie breaker system the Dragons will enter the
Championship tournament as a # 2 seed, and will face Fort Valley State on
Tuesday Night to start their journey through the tourney. Congrats to Coach
Basemore and the Dragons basketball team for a great regular season.

Seven beautiful young ladies will vie for the title of Miss Lane College on
Thursday February 26, 2015 at 6:00 p.m. in the Graves Auditorium, located in the
Chambers-McClure Academic Center

"Lent Message from Senior Bishop Lawrence Reddick."
Lent: Choosing What Is Worth More

"Turn my eyes from watching what is worthless ...."

Dear CME Family:

Greetings in the name of our Lord Jesus!

The late Bishop Joseph Coles impressed me during his episcopal ministry as one
who could say a lot with a few words. (I often wondered if his gift was related
to the necessity of him to economize as he adjusted after a stroke early in his
episcopal ministry. Not having observed his preaching as much beforehand, I did
not know.)

I believe it was a conference teaching session (I'm not sure; memory fails me!)
when I heard him say, "Discipline is choosing the greater over the lesser. That'
what it is: choosing the greater over the lesser."

One day in devotional time, I heard that theme anew when I read Psalm 119, verse
37, in the Revised Standard Version:

Turn my eyes from watching what is worthless;
give me life in your ways.
I don't exactly remember why the verse stopped me that day ... but it did. It
stopped me and moved me from being "in devotional time" to being "in study
time." And I began to look up words in English and in Hebrew. I heard the word
"worthless" as two words - "worth less." And I heard Bishop Coles' definition of
discipline, and considered the question, "What is worth more?" The result was
that "study time" resulted in even greater devotional time ... because I wanted
to know and choose those things that were worth more.

The word "choose" is important - at least, for a few moments. It was important
some days ago when I was challenged to find the right message for a worship
service led by the East Texas Region ushers. Of course, I looked at Psalms 84,
which includes the words, "I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God,
than to dwell in the tents of wickedness." Yet, the psalm starts with words
descriptive of the pull, the magnetism, the joy, and, yes, the fullness and the
glory of getting into God's house - "How amiable are thy tabernacles, O Lord
...." Amiable is from a Hebrew word that means "lovely, beloved, pleasant."

Then I saw that the words translated "I would rather be" (a doorkeeper ...) in
verse 10 of Psalm 84 are from the word, babar, which can mean, "choosing,
distinguishing, proving, trying, selecting." Thus, the psalmist is saying, out
of a culture where the "tent of God's presence" existed among other "tents" in
Israel's camp: "I choose to be in God's tent rather that in the tents of wicked
folk!" The word "choose" is important; it is highlighted by our conscious
actions.

But those of us who have been disciples just a little while know that we don't
always choose what is good, or what is better, or what is worth more rather than
what is worth less. And so, like the psalmist in Psalms 119:37, we pray for
God's help, asking God:

Turn my eyes from watching what is worthless;
give me life in your ways.
In this prayer, a key word is turn (rather than choose). The Hebrew translated
"turn" is abar, and it means, "to move beyond," or "to move from here to there,"
or "to transfer." And so the psalmist is praying (and when we recite the psalm,
we can also be praying), "Move me, Lord; move me beyond this to that. Move me
beyond what is worth less to that which is worth more":
-- move me from focusing on things that are lesser;
-- move me from focusing on things that have little value;
-- set my sights on greater things,
-- and give me life through your direction.
Lent is an important personal time. For some of us, it is "taking off": "What
will you give up?" we ask. But I am wondering if we might also learn to "take
on." This becomes my new Lenten question: "What will you ... and what will I ...
take on for Christ?" Yes, it is an important personal time. But when we ask that
question together ("What will you ... and what will I ... take on for Christ?"),
Lent also becomes an important communal time - a time when God's community is
asking that question together and the community is strengthened by the honest
asking. And so it is not just you or I - but all of God's Church ... the Church
that is God's and is holy and is catholic ... uses this time between Ash
Wednesday and Easter Sunday to pray that God will turn our eyes from things and
thoughts that are worth less to things and thoughts that are worth more, and to
act by choosing through discipline those that are greater over those that are
lesser.

Elsewhere in these web pages and announcements, The College of Bishops calls the
CME Church to "corporate prayer and fasting." It is a call to discipline. As you
read the call, think about things that are worth more. The call is about
becoming a CME Church that is focused on being available to God as God makes us
better disciples. We want those things that are worth more ... for all of us.
The theme, borrowing from the ipads and iphones world and yet moving beyond it,
is, "iFast, iPray, WeGrow."

Those who have followed the past Winter Quarter's series of Sunday School
lessons have a head start for this Season - because worshipping, praying,
fasting, and living in greater stewardship were our themes for December and
January and February. Now, during this Lenten Season, let us join together as a
Church in choosing the greater over the lesser, in praying and fasting that God
will do what we and the Psalmist ask:

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                           November 1, 2008 Saturday
                                  1 - Edition

Girls prepare for their special evening

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 438  words


TOWNSVILLE'S young ladies are ensuring no expense is spared during the priceless
experience of graduating from high school.

St Margaret Mary's year 12 girls are among hundreds of students putting the
finishing touches on what will be the biggest night of their lives.

Year 12 co-ordinator Natalie Dean said the girls had worked hard and deserved to
enjoy their special night.

``They're busy hiring limos and getting spray tans and fake nails and they'll
all have their hair and make-up done,'' Ms Dean said.

``Some of them have had their dresses since this time last year.

``We decorate the hall for them in a theme which is a surprise and they won't
know until they walk in on the night.''

Ms Dean said the St Margaret Mary's graduation would be held at Ignatius Park
College and would have special touches such as floral centrepieces and a
slide-show of the girls during their time at the school.

Students will also have the opportunity to dance a waltz with their father or
another special male in their lives.

Hills in Hollywood owner Amanda Gray said Townsville girls had been inspired by
red carpet numbers in their choice of gowns.

``They're going for flowing one-shoulder Grecian-looking dresses that come in
under the bust,'' Ms Gray said.

``Even the jewellery they're choosing makes them look like Greek goddesses.

``Other girls are choosing ballgowns with big skirts -- so big I can barely get
them into the shop.

``I've even had girls ask if they can have hoops put in because they just can't
get big enough skirts.''

Formal dates

Annandale Christian School, Holiday Inn, Friday November 14

Ayr High, Memorial Hall, Thursday November 20

Burdekin Catholic High, Memorial Hall, Friday November 21

Heatley High, Holiday Inn, Thursday November 20

Ignatius Park College, Ignatius Park College Hall, Wednesday November 19

Ingham High, Hinchinbrook Hall, November 19

Kirwan High, Jupiters Casino, Friday November 21

Northern Beaches High, Riverway Performance Space, Wednesday November 19

Pimlico High, Ignatius Park College Hall, Tuesday November 18

Ryan Catholic College, Entertainment Centre, Tuesday November 18

Shalom Christian College, Mercure Inn, Friday November 21

St Margaret Mary's College, Ignatius Park College Hall, Monday November 17

St Patricks College, Southbank Convention Centre, Saturday November 22

Townsville Christian College, Plaza Hotel, Thursday November 20

The Cathedral School, Southbank Convention Centre, Friday November 21

Thuringowa State High School, Jupiters Casino, Thursday November 20

Townsville State High School, Jupiters Casino, Monday November 17

William Ross State High School, Jupiters Casino, Wednesday November 19

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                              June 13, 2016 Monday

Industry preferences of graduates changing

BYLINE: Zhao Xinying

LENGTH: 447  words


Legacy industries losing appeal for today's job hunters, survey finds; smaller
is looking better

Preferences of Chinese college graduates for employment have been changing in
recent years as the country undergoes transformations in its economic and
industrial structure, a recent survey found.

Knowledge-intensive industries such as information, education and healthcare are
hiring more college graduates, while labor-intensive ones such as architecture
and manufacturing, are losing their appeal to job hunters, according to the
College Graduates' Employment Annual Report.

The survey, which was released on Sunday by education data and consulting
company MyCOS, polled more than 250,000 college students who graduated in 2015.

Guo Jiao, deputy director of the MyCOS Research Institute, said the upgrading of
industries comes with a need for workers with a higher education.

Information technology, for example, is leading the current industrial upgrade
in China and has become an engine of economic growth. Reflected in college
graduates' employment, Guo said the proportion of graduates who chose to work in
media, information and telecommunication rose from 8.5 percent in 2010 to 10.5
percent in 2015.

"College graduates' employment is like a barometer, helping decision-makers to
differentiate fast-developing emerging industries from those that are declining
or facing challenges," Guo said.

The report, in its eighth year, also found that small and medium-sized private
companies and enterprises, as employers, are gaining increasing favor from
college graduates, compared with State-owned enterprises or transnational
counterparts.

The proportion of college graduates who landed jobs at small and medium-sized
private companies rose from 45 percent in 2013 to 52 percent in 2015, while the
proportion of those who found jobs in the other corporations dropped.

Guo said the changes indicate that State-owned enterprises are making some
adjustments to their capacity, and transnational corporations are facing
pressure from rising labor costs.

The report also found that the employment rate of college graduates has remained
comparatively stable despite the slowing economy.

Wang Boqing, founder of MyCOS and an expert on college graduate employment, said
the stability resulted from the rising proportion of graduates choosing to start
their own businesses and those choosing postgraduate studies.

According to the National Bureau of Statistics, among the 6.81 million college
students who graduated in 2015, about 204,000 college graduates, or 3 percent,
chose to start their own business, a 0.1 percentage point rise from 2014.

zhaoxinying@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily 06/13/2016 page4)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                             July 7, 2011 Thursday

See nothing, hear nothing

LENGTH: 503  words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, July 7 -- Back in 2008 when the SLC results were published and I heard
that I had passed with flying colours, I was very happy and so were my friends
and everyone else who broke through the iron gate that year. This scene is
repeated every year at this time when the exam results are announced. No matter
how the iron gate is crossed, the SLC results represent the fulfilment of 12
years' investment by the parents in their children's education. This year,
parents and relatives of 55.5 percent of the students had smiles on their faces.

Besides happiness, good results also bring confusion about where and what to
study. And when my parents saw that I had scored more than 80 percent, they were
certainly very happy. They did not force me to study science, but their
psychology which I did see was that they would love to see me studying science.
Who wouldn't like to see their children as future doctors, engineers or
scientists? Everyone does. So did my parents.

And when you get high marks, it's a fashion or compulsion that you study
science. But has anybody thought about what's in the student's mind? It's the
student who should choose and study the subject to make one's own career, not
the parents. And if all students were to become doctors and engineers, who would
pursue other profession? So if parents force us to study what they want, then
make your own decision; and better also not be a psychologist.

Students may also be confused when choosing a college. And choosing between plus
two, A level and IB makes the problem more complex. Because the number of
colleges is increasing, students can be confused where to make most use of the
valuable two years of their lives. And when students go for counselling to
different colleges, they get into more confusion seeing their infrastructure and
the counsellors' "only nice" words. And the college one prefers might not suit
one or one's parents mostly due to financial reasons. Similarly, students in
rural areas also get confused about whether to go to a local college or move to
the city. Hence, everyone gets confused over where and what to study.

School life passes with 10 to 12 years of enjoying with friends, playing,
fighting, laughing and chatting. The teachers and everyone else with whom the 12
years are spent are left behind, but those times always remain in everyone's
memories even after school. If school friends want to remain together, they can
go to the same college. Well, this may seem odd, but it is really happening
around us. Therefore, if anybody is in a dilemma where and what to study, do not
listen to what others are saying and do what your heart says using your
God-gifted brain. Following the first and second parts of the saying "See
nothing, hear nothing, say nothing" might be helpful in removing the
"after-school dilemma". Published by HT Syndication with permission from
EKantipur.com. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 19, 1999, Monday

Study where to go

BYLINE: John O'Leary

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 860 words


Choosing a course becomes ever more confusing. John O'Leary offers help

Choosing a university place was never easy, but it has become even more
confusing in recent years. Not only are more courses available, but prospective
students are bombarded by glitzy promotional material and a wealth of advice on
where to find the cheapest pint of beer and the coolest nightclubs. The only
information that is lacking is how the universities compare academically.

The Good University Guide, which will run all this week in The Times, is an
attempt to fill that gap. Alone among the guides that now pack the bookstores
and newsstands, it offers a pointer to the best degree programmes in a growing
range of subjects, as well as ranking whole universities.

Over the next four days, the guide will provide information on the top courses
in more than 40 subjects and on choosing between Oxford and Cambridge colleges,
examine the opportunities for work experience and offer advice on the annual
scramble for student accommodation. The series will culminate on Friday with the
1999 edition of the original university league table.

Not surprisingly, the introduction of tuition fees for full-time undergraduates
has made prospective students even more discriminating about their choice of
course and wary about whether to take a degree at all. Though the collapse in
applications predicted by some critics has not materialised, subject choices
seem to have been affected.

Mindful of the competition for graduate jobs, applicants are looking for quality
and also gravitating towards the more vocational subjects. The pattern
established in Australia, which began charging for higher education more than a
decade ago, is being repeated in Britain. Computing and some branches of
engineering are experiencing a boom as teacher training and some arts subjects
struggle.

The latest statistics from the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service
(Ucas), published on Friday, show a 2.5 per cent drop in the number of
applications for higher education courses: almost 20,000 fewer than at the end
of March 1998. But the decline is due entirely to the continuing reluctance of
mature students to commit themselves to extra expense and, to a lesser extent,
the drying-up of previously fertile markets in South-East Asia and the Republic
of Ireland.

Applications from British school-leavers show a slight increase, as they did
last year. There are only 245 more out of 284,000, but the relief among
ministers was palpable, not least because they have planned for 36,000 more
students in October. Baroness Blackstone, the Education and Employment Minister,
said: "These figures clearly demonstrate the continuing strong demand that
exists for higher education and that the reforms we introduced to provide proper
funding and allow for the expansion of higher education were right."

Tony Higgins, the chief executive of Ucas, said: "The drop in the number of
mature applicants is disappointing, but the Government's recent announcement of
initiatives to widen participation among mature applicants and disadvantaged
groups should help to tackle this and is to be welcomed."

More than 20,000 of the new places will be for part-timers, who have always paid
fees and whose applications have not shown the same decline as those for
full-time courses. Universities are also being offered incentives to recruit
more students from poor backgrounds, something higher education as a whole has
failed to do despite the dramatic expansion of student numbers over the past 20
years.

Most universities will have some extra Government-funded places under the Pounds
75 million scheme to widen participation, but some with an overwhelmingly
middle-class intake will receive only a handful, while others are allocated
several hundred.

Apart from the Open University, Sheffield Hallam will be the biggest winner, but
most of its 1,595 additional places will not be at full-time degree level. The
largest allocation of full-time degree places will be at Nottingham University,
where a new campus opens this year. Almost 1,000 extra places will be funded,
easing the pressure slightly on the most sought-after courses in the higher
education system. There are 14 applications to each place and entry requirements
are among the highest in Britain.

Hull University is next on the provisional allocation agreed by the Higher
Education Funding Council for England, with almost 978 new places. The exercise
will be repeated for entry in 2000.

The indications are that there will be a place somewhere in the higher education
for most of those hoping to start a course this year or next, but competition
for the top degrees will be as fierce as ever. Careful preparation and
investigation of all the options will be needed to ensure the best possible
chance of success with the top courses.

For Internet users, the guide will remain available on The Times website (http:
/ www.the-times.co.uk). An expanded paperback version, with profiles of each
university and details of their teaching quality assessment, will be published
at the end of the month.


LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              365 of 997 DOCUMENTS


           Northwest Florida Daily News (Fort Walton Beach, Florida)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 1, 2008 Friday

Choosing USF a no-brainer for Craig Marshall: Scholarship offer, family lure
former Choctaw star to play for South Florida

BYLINE: Adam Pruiett, Northwest Florida Daily News, Fort Walton Beach

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 436 words


Aug. 1--When the time arrived this year for Craig Marshall to choose his next
football destination, the former Choctawhatchee standout didn't have to rack his
brain making a decision.

University of South Florida football coach Jim Leavitt promised Marshall a
scholarship once he graduated from Pearl River (Miss.) Community College and,
just as enticing, Marshall has grandparents, aunts, uncles and cousins sprinkled
throughout Tampa.

"(Family) was a big part of why I wanted to come down here," Marshall said
before adding, "(Leavitt) kept his word with me, so I wanted to keep my word as
well."

Marshall signed with the Bulls after a solid season at Pearl River and has three
years of eligibility left after redshirting his freshman season with the
Wildcats. He'll join former Choctaw teammate Andrew Ketchel, a sophomore tight
end.

Marshall had originally signed with South Florida after a strong career at
Choctawhatchee. As a senior, he was ranked as the 45th best weakside defensive
end in the country by recruiting service Rivals.com.

In his lone season at Pearl River, the 6-foot-5, 260-pound defensive end had 41
tackles, including 20 solo stops and 4.5 for a loss, while also registering 3.5
sacks, two fumble recoveries and an interception.

"I was satisfied with it. I rotated in with two other guys. I still got a good
amount of playing time," said Marshall, who, according to South Florida's Web
site, was rated as the 30th best junior college prospect.

Marshall believes he'll start practice as a second-team defensive end and is
hopeful that he can rise to first-team status. Regardless, he's optimistic about
regular playing time.

"I'm very confident. I feel I've got a pretty good chance," he said. "I've
played defensive end for a while, so I know a few tricks and my footwork will
help me also."

South Florida climbed to No. 2 in the national rankings last season after a 6-0
start, but three straight losses helped account for a 9-4 finish that was capped
by a lopsided loss to Oregon in the Sun Bowl.

"I was rooting for them the whole time," Marshall said. "They hit a slump after
that (initial streak), but I don't think we'll run into that this year."

To see more of the Northwest Florida Daily News or to subscribe to the
newspaper, go to http://www.nwfdailynews.com. Copyright (c) 2008, Northwest
Florida Daily News, Fort Walton Beach Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune
Information Services. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call
800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The
Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080801-FO-Choosing-USF-a-no-brainer-for-Craig-Marshall-0801

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FO


                  Copyright 2008 Northwest Florida Daily News

                              366 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily - Africa Weekly

                               September 13, 2015

College criticized for assigning majors through lottery

LENGTH: 502  words


The University of South China in Hunan province has caused controversy by making
its students pick their majors through a lottery system.

Students leave the Guiyang No. 6 Middle School after finishing the National
College Entrance Exam (NCEE) in capital of southwest China's Guizhou Province,
June 8, 2015. The 2015 National College Entrance Exam ended on Monday in most
parts of China (in a few provinces the NCEE will last for one more day). A total
of 9.42 million students sat for the exams this year. [Photo/Xinhua]

CHANGSHA - A central China university has caused controversy by making its
students pick their majors through a lottery system.

The auditorium at the University of South China in Hunan Province was especially
crowded the evening of September 8, when hundreds of students queued to pick
their majors through luck of the draw.

Second-year students from the department of civil engineering under the urban
planning school are required to focus on one of the department's seven majors.

Lu Qinghua, an official with the school, said, "We were forced to take these
measures. If choosing a major is solely based on students' wants, some majors
will be overcrowded and others will have difficulty enrolling enough students.
There are some other colleges that use this method."

Lu added that not all of the department's 585 students must rely on luck. The
top 190 students in the department may choose their majors freely. Students who
draw through the lottery still have a chance to switch with another student
before their majors are finally set.

Critics say the university's methods are a sign of lazy governance.

"The college lacks a sense of responsibility. Students should enjoy the right to
choose the majors they prefer, and the college should not sacrifice students'
chances of personal development for the sake of maintaining a balance among
majors," said Internet user "Jingshuishenliu" on news portal Sohu.com.

Si Hanhan, a writer for news portal gmw.cn, said that instead of deciding majors
in such an "irresponsible" way, universities should readjust the majors offered
and eliminate those that don't meet the needs of the job market, as well as
offer more guidance to students when choosing their majors.

Si also said that the school's policy of allowing the top 190 students to choose
their own majors is an act of "discrimination."

An official surnamed Su with the publicity department of the university said the
policy has been in place for years and the school had also sought advice from
instructors and students twice in the past.

"After one year of study, students whose performance is in the top 10 percent
can apply to change majors," she said.

A student who had just drawn a major told newspaper Beijing Times, "I think it
is quite fair. Students are encouraged to study hard to gain the chance to
freely choose majors. Even if we get a dissatisfying major after the lottery, we
can exchange it with others."

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1497/25/144211056903.jpg

b083fe9924f0175f10a937.jpg

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1497


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           September 13, 2015 Sunday

College criticized for assigning majors through lottery

LENGTH: 502  words


The University of South China in Hunan province has caused controversy by making
its students pick their majors through a lottery system.

Students leave the Guiyang No. 6 Middle School after finishing the National
College Entrance Exam (NCEE) in capital of southwest China's Guizhou Province,
June 8, 2015. The 2015 National College Entrance Exam ended on Monday in most
parts of China (in a few provinces the NCEE will last for one more day). A total
of 9.42 million students sat for the exams this year. [Photo/Xinhua]

CHANGSHA - A central China university has caused controversy by making its
students pick their majors through a lottery system.

The auditorium at the University of South China in Hunan Province was especially
crowded the evening of September 8, when hundreds of students queued to pick
their majors through luck of the draw.

Second-year students from the department of civil engineering under the urban
planning school are required to focus on one of the department's seven majors.

Lu Qinghua, an official with the school, said, "We were forced to take these
measures. If choosing a major is solely based on students' wants, some majors
will be overcrowded and others will have difficulty enrolling enough students.
There are some other colleges that use this method."

Lu added that not all of the department's 585 students must rely on luck. The
top 190 students in the department may choose their majors freely. Students who
draw through the lottery still have a chance to switch with another student
before their majors are finally set.

Critics say the university's methods are a sign of lazy governance.

"The college lacks a sense of responsibility. Students should enjoy the right to
choose the majors they prefer, and the college should not sacrifice students'
chances of personal development for the sake of maintaining a balance among
majors," said Internet user "Jingshuishenliu" on news portal Sohu.com.

Si Hanhan, a writer for news portal gmw.cn, said that instead of deciding majors
in such an "irresponsible" way, universities should readjust the majors offered
and eliminate those that don't meet the needs of the job market, as well as
offer more guidance to students when choosing their majors.

Si also said that the school's policy of allowing the top 190 students to choose
their own majors is an act of "discrimination."

An official surnamed Su with the publicity department of the university said the
policy has been in place for years and the school had also sought advice from
instructors and students twice in the past.

"After one year of study, students whose performance is in the top 10 percent
can apply to change majors," she said.

A student who had just drawn a major told newspaper Beijing Times, "I think it
is quite fair. Students are encouraged to study hard to gain the chance to
freely choose majors. Even if we get a dissatisfying major after the lottery, we
can exchange it with others."

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/25/144210963389.jpg

b083fe9924f0175f10a937.jpg

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                             March 12, 2013 Tuesday

Things to consider when picking a school

BYLINE: Ayana Lyttle

SECTION: IL FEATURES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 548 words


Voice Correspondent

As second semester continues, seniors have turned their focus to graduation.

Students who have decided to continue their education may find it difficult to
choose which community college, four-year institution or technical school is
right for them. There are many factors to consider when choosing a college,
including the type of school, location, campus atmosphere, student body,
extracurricular activities and cost.

In the classroom

Students first must decide what type of school they want to attend. There are
community colleges where you can earn an associate's (two-year) degree and then
look for a job or head to a four-year school. There are four-year colleges and
universities. A college is an institution that offers a collection of
undergraduate degrees. For example, Illinois College in Jacksonville offers a
range of liberal arts degrees. A university offers both undergraduate and
graduates degrees, and often has several colleges or schools within it. The
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign is home to 17 colleges and schools.

There are also technical institutions where a student can learn a specific
trade, such as dental hygienist.

An important thing to remember when choosing a school is academics. You might
have your heart set on a specific college or university, but if it doesn't offer
your intended major, it won't be a great fit.

Some colleges serve a specific audience. Are you interested in an all-girls
school or a historically black college?

Location

For some students, venturing far from home can be scary, while others see
branching out as fun and educational. My most important factor proved to be
location. I want to attend a school that's far away from Illinois.

Students also have to decide whether to attend school in a big city or a more
rural area. In addition, it's important to examine the campus. Some schools
offer an open campus, which basically means anyone can enter the grounds. Other
schools have closed campuses and only students and staff can enter.

It's also important to identify the size of the campus you'd like to attend. If
you attend a school with a big campus, there will likely be a lot of walking.

Visit the schools you're considering to get the feel of the campus. A student
may find what seems to be the perfect school, but once he or she gets a taste of
the campus, it's really the right fit. I happened to feel at home at each school
I applied to. I visited Spelman College in Atlanta, an all-women's school, and
Florida A&M University, a school with an open campus. Hampton University is in
my hometown -- Hampton, Va. I am also interested in Howard University in
Washington, D.C.

Size matters

Consider a school's student body. There are schools with a few hundred people,
while bigger campuses may be home to 40,000 students. Ask what the class sizes
are like. Is it important to you to have smaller classes, or do you think you'd
do well in large lecture halls?

Finally ...

A key factor is the cost. Tuition at four-year institutions can range from less
than $7,000 to more than $40,000 each year. Don't forget to factor in books and
housing. Apply for as many scholarships and grants as possible. No one wants to
be paying off student loans forever.

Ayana Lyttle is a senior at Lanphier High School.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             July 12, 2016 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

DON'T LUMBER STUDENTS WITH DEBTS OF (EURO)20,000;
Plea to keep education free of loans

BYLINE: CORMAC O'SHEA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 350 words


A NEW college fees scheme will leave students with a 'study mortgage' of up to
(EURO)20,000 once they leave college, it was warned yesterday.

The plan was proposed in a report by Peter Cassells, former general secretary of
the Irish Congress of Trade Unions, as the future of third-level funding.

However students' representatives have warned the Government such a move would
lumber young people with debt the size of a small mortgage.

Union of Students in Ireland president Annie Hoey said there was a concern
political will would determine whether loans are forced on to people She added:
"It needs to made clear this is a matter of political will - the fact there are
three options.

"If a loan system is brought in it will be because a government is choosing that
option.

"They will be choosing to put a mortgage on young people for their education.

"Publicly-funded free education is not impossible. If it was, so many other
countries in Europe wouldn't offer it."

Under one proposed system, third-level education would be provided free for all
but those who graduate and go on to earn more than a set threshold.

They would then retrospectively pay for their course.

Education Minister Richard Bruton insisted more funding for colleges and
universities would have to be matched by improvements in the system.

Speaking on RTE Radio One's Morning Ireland, he said: "There is no sector more
important for combining our strong economy and a fair society than education.
And in particular a higher education system that concentrates on getting more
children from disadvantaged areas delivering the skills we need for the economy
and investing in research."

The report also suggests other options including increasing State funding to
bring in an extra (EURO)150million a year.

Higher Education Authority chief Tom Boland said: "There can be no question that
urgent intervention is required to address a rapidly deteriorating financial
situation across all of our institutions.

"This poses an immediate risk to their ability to maintain high quality
provision and meet the growth of student demand."

news@irishmirror.ie

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONCERNED Annie Hoey

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2016 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday

8 things to keep in mind while planning for your child's studies abroad

BYLINE: Sunil Dhawan

SECTION: PLAN

LENGTH: 1022 words


As a parent, you always want the best for your kids. And if it means sending
them abroad for higher studies, then you better start preparing for it as early
as possible. If your kids are small, then you have enough time to start
investing for their educational needs. But if you're about to send your child
abroad in the next 1-2 years, getting a grasp of the various aspects of
international studies can come in quite handy.Here are a few things to keep in
mind as you and your children contemplate offshore study.When to begin
planningTo start with, studying abroad needs meticulous planning to put things
in the right place.

As far as possible every move should be preconceived. The decision to go abroad
for studies should be made at an early age. Generally, class XI and XII students
start talking about it and then realise that they're already hard-pressed for
time. If your children express a desire, say, in class IX, then you better start
planning. Counselling session Search for a mentor. Someone who has been there
can share their first-hand experience with you and your kid. One may even go for
a counselling session and discuss important things like aptitude, courses,
colleges, application process, working out the best option if a college accepts
the application, visa formalities, pre-departure workshops and then the final
departure. Although all this may take 8-10 months, it helps the student prepare
well in advance. Be cautious, though, as some counsellors may push the child
towards a certain course and university because of their vested interests. So
prepare well before interacting with them. Ask the right questions and do not go
by the consultant's talk all the time.Although preferences could vary, choosing
the course, then country and finally the university, in that order, should
benefit the child in the long run. Some may want to pursue the chosen course in
the best university(ies) so wherever these best are located, automatically
becomes the destination country. Charushilla, Founder, Director & Key Mentor,
University Connection, says, "With globalisation trends on the rise, it is
advisable for students to select the country of study soon after they have
decided what to study. Country work-visa rules, research opportunities,
international student satisfaction indices, cost of living are all possible
factors that help determine suitability."Choosing a courseNewer courses keep
coming up and not every university may offer courses, especially specialised
ones, that your child wishes to pursue. Therefore, one may keep the course as
the starting point and search accordingly. Choosing a country Once you've chosen
the course, you need to take a call on the country you wish to study in. The
process to apply for a course in different countries may vary a lot. In some
countries, only one application needs to be submitted for more than one college,
while in case of other countries you may have to apply separately. Social and
cultural fit may come in the way, especially if you have chosen a country, but
your family doesn't want you to go there. Also, remember that all countries may
not give you a permit to work post-studies. Choosing a universityFinally, choose
a university based on your budget and the university's reputation. You should
ideally also look at the university's faculty and job placement record. Create a
list of 5-10 colleges and pick one after carefully evaluation. CostsOne would
not like to fall short of funds at the last minute, especially when your child
is all pumped up to go abroad for studies. So try and get the break-up and be
realistic while estimating costs. Sending your kid to study in the US could cost
you anywhere between Rs 25 lakh and Rs 50 lakh annually. In other countries, it
could be a shade lower. A counselling session, the starting point for
internationals studies, could cost you about Rs 5,000 per session, while an
all-inclusive hand-handling package could cost Rs 75,000-Rs 1.5 lakh. "At
University Connection, we offer basic counseling assistance at only Rs 4,000. We
believe in working with students right from grades nine upwards in order to help
them build the basic skills for international or college education preparedness
- communication, research and critical thinking. The cost of an all-inclusive
hand-holding, therefore, depends on the number of years of engagement and the
final choice of the country," says Charushilla. The application fee for each
college could be about $75 on an average and you may have to apply to about 5-10
of them. In addition, there will be expense on accommodation, food and travel.
ScholarshipIf one happens to get a scholarship, nothing like it as it helps in
reducing the tuition fees considerably. Some scholarships cover a part of the
total tuition fees, while others may cover the entire amount. The remaining
funding will have to come from parents and an education loan. Currency
fluctuationsA major portion of the international studies, including the tuition
fees, will be denominated in dollar. As and when rupee weakens against the
dollar, the education abroad will become costly. In 2013, a dollar was about Rs
62, today it stands at Rs 67, and it's nearly 8 per cent of depreciation, i.e.,
the Rupee has depreciated by 8% versus the dollar. From here, if rupee
depreciates further, then on a four-year course, you may need more rupees to
fund the dollar cost of your education abroad. Therefore, do not consider annual
costs and instead take into account the total budget, keeping currency
fluctuations in mind. One may open a bank account in the name of the child
abroad and deposit certain funds to hedge against such fluctuations.
ConclusionEvaluate the career opportunities realistically, both abroad and
within India, before planning for international studies. The potential of
getting a job immediately after studies will be different for both undergraduate
and postgraduate courses. Also, the geopolitical developments play a role in
impacting the same. International education comes at a high price, but can be
highly rewarding if planned well.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

Call for unity: It's time for anti-Bourque parties to organize a coalition for
election

BYLINE: MICHEL PRESCOTT

SOURCE: The Gazette

SECTION: EDITORIAL / OP-ED, Pg. B3

LENGTH: 596 words


There's a great desire among opponents of the present Montreal administration to
unite for the coming election, rather than running divided and seeing Pierre
Bourque waltz back into power.

But it remains to be seen how the opposition can get together. Here are my
ideas, based on a three-pronged approach: the mayoral campaign, a common
election platform and a non-aggression pact in the electoral districts.

An agreement on the first - the mayor's race - is key because it opens the door
to an agreement on the other two. Conversely, if there is no agreement on a
single mayoral candidate, it would be more difficult to reach a non-aggression
pact in the boroughs and impossible to achieve a common election platform.

A mayoral candidate should carry the message of his or her party or coalition.
That's difficult to do - not to mention undemocratic - if the candidate is
chosen in secret by a group of people who have considered only certain
candidates. The candidate chosen behind closed doors would only have a real
mandate from that small group.

To find a truly representative candidate, the various parts of the opposition
must have a say in the choice of that candidate. They then must be willing to
rally behind a common election platform.

The process for choosing the coalition candidate should fulfill three
conditions. First, it should allow all interested parties to promote their
candidacies. Next, the people choosing the candidate should number in the
hundreds, instead of just a handful. Finally, the process should be public.

I suggest setting up an electoral college composed of people chosen by the
different candidates and given a chance to hear the candidates in public
meetings. It would make a final choice by the end of May, at the latest.

The electoral college might, for example, be made up of 100 people selected by
the groups intending to run a candidate for the coalition's nomination. If three
different groups joined the coalition, the college would consist of 300 members
who would elect the leader.

This electoral college idea is new, and deserves to be discussed and improved,
but it can be the basis for a final formula for choosing the coalition
candidate.

That would leave five months for the chosen candidate and his or her new allies
to campaign. This isn't a lot of time, but it is enough because the campaign for
the nomination would have put the coalition in the public eye.

As well, the race for the nomination would allow the coalition to recruit the
army of volunteers needed in the boroughs. And since they would have chosen the
mayoralty candidate together, the entire group of organizations would also work
to have that candidate elected.

Agreement on a mayoral candidate opens the door to defining a common electoral
platform; it even requires it. It would be a matter of choosing the major themes
of the policy for the administration to be formed by our coalition.

As to the non-aggression pact, it would mean that only one candidate faces a
Vision Montreal candidate in each electoral district of the new city. This pact
would greatly improve the coalition's chance of winning a majority of seats in
the next municipal council, no matter who is elected mayor.

I hope everybody whose only priority is the best interests of Montreal and their
local communities consider this idea. The time is ripe for a real coalition of
the opponents to the current administration.

D   Michel Prescott is leader of the Montreal Citizens' Movement and a candidate
for the MCM's mayoralty nomination.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           January 29, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

College open day for would-be students

BYLINE: David whinyates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 382 words


BIRMINGHAM Metropolitan College is opening the doors at three of its campuses
this evening to welcome prospective students.

The campuses at Sutton Coldfield, Great Barr and Birmingham city centre will be
holding the first of this year's open events for school leavers and adult
learners.

Hundreds of education and training opportunities are available for Year 10 and
11 pupils, as well as higher education and part-time courses for adults.

Sutton Coldfield, James Watt, Matthew Boulton and Birmingham Botanical Gardens
Study Centre are open between 5pm and 8pm, when there will be taster sessions
for selected courses and visitors can tour the campuses, attend talks, receive
career advice and meet with teachers and students to find out more about college
life and learning.

Birmingham Metropolitan College's range of courses across the city is one of the
best in the West Midlands.

A-level subjects include maths and the sciences, history, geography, law,
government and politics and philosophy.

Practical vocational courses from a range of disciplines can also be studied at
Level 2 or Level 3, including sport, art and design, fashion, health and social
care, podiatry and dentistry, construction, childcare and IT or business.

"Choosing the right college is a big decision, which is why our open events are
designed to showcase every aspect of the learning journey, whether it's being in
the classroom, studying independently or getting involved in extracurricular
activities," said principal Andrew Cleaves.

"Our focus for school leavers is very much on offering a great range of courses
for the local communities we serve, helping to fill local skills gaps and
preparing people for work or higher education.

"We've recently invested a substantial amount of money on new facilities at our
James Watt Campus and Erdington Skills Centre, as well as introducing new
courses at our Birmingham Botanical Gardens Study Centre."

Tonight's visitors can also find out more about Apprenticeship programmes and HE
courses.

? For further information on courses, careers events and forthcoming open events
check out the website at www.bmetc.ac.uk.

'"Choosing the right college is a big decision, which is why our open events are
designed to showcase every aspect of the learning journey. principal andrew
cleaves

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2015 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Kashmir Images (India)

                          September 28, 2011 Wednesday

Determination, dedication and hard work key to success: Khoda

LENGTH: 477 words

DATELINE: SRINAGAR


SRINAGAR, Sept. 28 -- Director General of Police (DGP), Kuldeep Khoda asked the
youth to work hard to make their future bright adding that mental development of
the youth leads towards a disciplined society.

Khoda was speaking at a function held at Amar Singh College here this afternoon
at a function organised by Jammu and Kashmir Police to dedicate Career
Counselling Centre to the College Campus. The Centre has been developed by JKP
under its Civic Action Programme.

Khoda said that the Centre would facilitate the students to choose their career
and also suffice reading facilities to youth within the college premises. He
emphasised upon the student community to take benefit of the Counselling Centre
while choosing their future profession and also consult the study material
,which has been made available in the centre.

On the occasion, question-answer session was also held with the students, in
which Khoda answered various question of the students. He also shared memories
of his college days with them and asked the students to be punctual and
disciplined in their studies and set their goal to for success in the life.

The DGP said that Jammu and Kashmir Police apart from its professional duties is
also doing its social responsibility for the career building and mental
development of youth of the State. He said that the youth are future of the
State and to mould them towards right direction is our social responsibility.

Khoda said that Jammu and Kashmir Police has undertaken various schemes under
its Civic Action Programme across the State to benefit the people especially the
youth of the State. He said that our youth are highly talented and have brought
laurels at different levels for the State. Their talent needs to be explored to
make them more effective for the development of the State, he added.

Earlier, the DIG (CKR), Abdul Ghani Mir, while dwelling on objectives of
establishing such counselling centres said that the material provided to the
Centre will enhance the knowledge of the students and would facilitate them in
choosing their profession. He said that the material has been provided as per
the latest requirements and the students should take benefit of these
facilitates.

The Principal of the College, Tariq Ahmed Kawoosa appreciated the step taken by
JKP for establishing the Centre at College Campus. He said that the facility
would suffice the requirements of the students within the campus.

Among others, the function was attended by Additional Director General of Police
(Headquarters), s. D. R. Doley, Principals of various educational Institutions,
SSP, Srinagar, Syed Ashiq Hussain Bukhari and other senior citizens. Published
by HT Syndication with permission from Kashmir Images. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Kashmir Images
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (Nigeria)

                              May 2, 2017 Tuesday

Towards academic excellence

BYLINE: Uche Atuma

LENGTH: 576 words


Notice: Undefined index: layout_id in
/var/www/vhosts/sunnews/wp-content/themes/fastnews/library/front.ph p on line
1663
o At 10th matriculation of Nsukka College of Education, Provost tutors fresh
students on good manners From Oladele Oge, Nsukka Fresh students of The College
of Education Nsukka in Enugu State, an affiliate of Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu
University, Anambra State, have been warned against involvement in cultism and
other related clandestine groups that could disrupt their...

o At 10th matriculation of Nsukka College of Education, Provost tutors fresh
students on good manners

From Oladele Oge, Nsukka

Fresh students of The College of Education Nsukka in Enugu State, an affiliate
of Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University, Anambra State, have been warned
against involvement in cultism and other related clandestine groups that could
disrupt their academic career in the college.

This was also as they were told that the institution has zero tolerance for
examination malpractice and should avoid being involved in the act, as anyone
caught would be summarily dismissed from the college.

The Acting Provost of the college, Dr. Okwudili Nwosu, who gave the warning
during the 10th matriculation of the institution, said no institution of
learning that knows its worth and is prepared to build individuals academically,
morally and socially should encourage any act that could compromise its
integrity in the pursuit of academic excellence.

"You must shun cultism and other evil groups, because the College of Education
Nsukka has zero tolerance policy on cultism and other related vices such as
examination malpractice, sorting of lecturers either in cash or kind, violence
as well as drug addiction and drunkenness," he said.

He however said that the students would have a hitch-free access to facilities
that would assist them to achieve their teacher education programme, stressing
that the college management has provided modern means of learning such as cyber
café, E-library and ultra-modern campus wide Internet network in the two
campuses of the institution for NCE, B.ED and PDE students.

The Acting Provost added that the college has an open door policy and urged the
students to always feel free in sharing their problems with relevant officers of
the college for proper advice and solution to their problem. He also advised
them to remain conscious of why they enrolled into the college: to pursue
teacher education programme and be committed to their study.

According to him, the college has sourced over 1500 textbooks and 500
international journals in her E-Library to enhance quality researches of
national and international standards, saying that students should avail
themselves of this golden opportunity to enrich their knowledge and set standard
for themselves.

Some of the matriculating students said they were happy to participate in the
ceremony, adding that they have their genuine reasons for choosing the college
for the pursuit of their career. Miss Favour Ishiwu of the Department of Social
Studies said choosing the institution for her career in teaching profession was
not a mistake but something done out of her passion and the desire to be a
teacher.

Anthony Ikenna Eze of the Department of English said his love for education
course was to acquire knowledge and certificate that would give him the
opportunity to expand and encourage quality education in Nigeria. Over 300
students took the matriculation oath.

Share

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1228


                   Copyright 2017 The Sun Publishing Limited
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Central Western Daily

                            April 16, 2016 Saturday

SENIOR high school students from around the state w

BYLINE: JANICE HARRIS

SECTION: EARLY GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 282 words


SENIOR high school students from around the state who are looking seriously at
applying for a place in one of the degree courses at Charles Sturt University
(CSU) campus visited Orange yesterday and participated in information sessions
with senior lecturers.

Potential students of dental science, clinical science, pharmacy and
physiotherapy at CSU in Orange took part in mock lectures and had the
opportunity to ask questions about courses, entry requirements and other aspects
of university life.

In one of the lecture rooms Professor in Dentistry David Wilson told students
there was now a strong emphasis on choosing students who didn't just qualify for
entry with a high Australian Tertiary Admission Rank (ATAR).

"We are looking for students who are highly motivated and will have the highest
standards of ethics and professionalism," he told the prospective students.

He said having high marks in the Higher School Certificate was no longer
sufficient to impress academics choosing who will be accepted.

"As a person you must show that you have an empathy and an understanding to be
able to communicate well with your patients - to put them at ease and explain
all that is happening in their treatment programs," Professor Wilson said.

He said competition would be "tough" as the university in Orange prepared for
the next intake of dentistry students, and the campus was expecting to receive
1000 applications for the 110 positions available at Orange.

Badged as the MyDay program, the open day is circulated among high schools in
the state to ensure students have every opportunity to consider their options
before they start their Higher School Certificate examinations at the end of the
year.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Central Western Daily

                                 April 15, 2016

Students armed to the teeth with information about Charles Sturt University

BYLINE: JANICE HARRIS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 282  words


SENIOR high school students from around the state who are looking seriously at
applying for a place in one of the degree courses at Charles Sturt University
(CSU) campus visited Orange yesterday and participated in information sessions
with senior lecturers.

Potential students of dental science, clinical science, pharmacy and
physiotherapy at CSU in Orange took part in mock lectures and had the
opportunity to ask questions about courses, entry requirements and other aspects
of university life.

In one of the lecture rooms Professor in Dentistry David Wilson told students
there was now a strong emphasis on choosing students who didn't just qualify for
entry with a high Australian Tertiary Admission Rank (ATAR).

'We are looking for students who are highly motivated and will have the highest
standards of ethics and professionalism,' he told the prospective students.

He said having high marks in the Higher School Certificate was no longer
sufficient to impress academics choosing who will be accepted.

'As a person you must show that you have an empathy and an understanding to be
able to communicate well with your patients - to put them at ease and explain
all that is happening in their treatment programs,' Professor Wilson said.

He said competition would be 'tough' as the university in Orange prepared for
the next intake of dentistry students, and the campus was expecting to receive
1000 applications for the 110 positions available at Orange.

Badged as the MyDay program, the open day is circulated among high schools in
the state to ensure students have every opportunity to consider their options
before they start their Higher School Certificate examinations at the end of the
year.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 23, 2017 Saturday

College Factual Ranks UNF Among 2018 'Best Colleges'

LENGTH: 494  words



Jacksonville: University of North Florida has issued the following news release:

For the fourth consecutive year, the University of North Florida has been ranked
among the best colleges across the country in a new ranking, published in USA
Today, by College Factual, a trusted online resource that uses customizable
tools and outcomes-based rankings systems to guide students through the college
selection process.


UNF was ranked No. 21 nationwide as a "Top Ranked Veteran" university when it
comes to a quality education to veterans in computer information systems. The
University is also ranked as one of the best colleges in Florida for the money
and among the best colleges in the state. UNF was ranked No. 14 statewide as one
of the 2018 "Best Colleges for the Money" and No. 20 as one of the 2018 "Top
Quality Overall Best Colleges" in the state.
"We take great pride in being nationally recognized as one of the best
universities in Florida and for being recognized as delivering an exceptional
education at an exceptional value," said UNF President John Delaney.
This latest recognition comes on the heels of UNF receiving several other
national designations, including 2018 "Best Regional" University by U.S. News &
World Report, 2017 Higher Education Excellence in Diversity Award from Insight
into Diversity magazine, 2017 "Best College Value" by Kiplinger's Personal
Finance and 2017 "Best in the Southeast" by Princeton Review, to name a few.
College Factual ranked more than 1,300 colleges and used a number of
outcome-based factors to determine the ranking, which includes both research
universities and liberal arts colleges. Some important data points are how well
the institution retains and graduates students, the boost in expected earnings,
the percentage of full-time teachers and the average student loan default rate.
The rankings also looked at the quality and average cost of each college. For
more information, visit www.collegefactual.com .
"We publish a variety of college rankings to get students and parents focused on
key factors they need to consider when choosing a school," said Bill Phelan,
College Factual CEO.
College Factual is an online portal designed to assist prospective college
students, parents, guidance counselors and others involved in the college
selection process. By offering unique data-driven insights and tools that help
dissect the enormous amounts of data available for institutions of higher
education, College Factual simplifies the all-important act of choosing the best
school for each individual student in terms of cost, value and personal fit.
 UNF, a nationally ranked university located on an environmentally beautiful
campus, offers students who are dedicated to enriching the lives of others the
opportunity to build their own futures through a well-rounded education.

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Oman Tribune

                            October 3, 2017 Tuesday

Two-day Majors Fair on career guidance gets underway at SQU

LENGTH: 323  words


Minister of Education and Chairperson of the Oman National Commission for
Education, Culture and Science Her Excellency Dr Madiha Bint Ahmed Al Shibaniyah
and the Vice-Chancellor of Sultan Qaboos University HE Dr Ali Bin Saud Al Bimani
at the event.

MUSCAT

The Majors Fair commenced at the Grand Hall of the Sultan Qaboos University
(SQU) Cultural Centre under the patronage of Secretary-General of the Education
Council HE Dr Said Bin Hamed Al Rubaii on Tuesday.

The Centre for Career Guidance organises the annual Majors Fair in fall semester
of the academic year to help new students in choosing academic majors
thoughtfully and overcome the tension and confusion associated with this
decision.

Majors Fair includes stations representing 62 academic majors offered by nine
colleges at the university, in addition to stations of SQU and different
employers' participations.

The event aims to increase newly admitted students' awareness of available
majors, and related skills and jobs and to help them plan a successful career
path that begins by choosing the right major.

The fair targets SQU students who are about to choose their academic majors, new
students and those willing to familiarise with the labour market and career
opportunities related to their majors.

Students who would like to change their Majors within the college, or are
looking for transfers from one college to another, would also benefit from this
event.

The event is designed to assist all students needing to know more about
undergraduate majors and minors. It also provides students the opportunity to
obtain information on decision-making and meet with representatives from all
departments or colleges all at one place at one time.

The two-day Fair targets school students, parents and career advisers from
schools who like to learn about academic majors and future job prospects
associated with the specialisations.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/377/1257/27/150705184776.jpg



LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1257


                          Copyright 2017 Oman Tribune
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Caboolture Shire Herald (Australia)

                           October 17, 2013 Thursday
                               Caboolture Edition

Guide helps parents choose right school

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 205  words


THERE are so many options available in secondary education, it can be a daunting
prospect for parents to choose the best option for their child.

Grace Lutheran College principal Ruth Butler has developed a guide for parents
to help make the decision.

"It will provide 16 essential questions you should ask yourself about schools
and will give you the confidence to make the best decision for your child," Mrs
Butler said.

Questions addressed in the report include: what the difference is between
choosing a primary school and choosing a secondary school; the best way to find
out about a school; whether state school or a non-state school is best for your
child; selecting a school that is coeducational or single sex; faith-based
compared to non-faith based schools; benefits of smaller and bigger schools;
understanding academic results; catering for academically gifted children;
whether to leave your P-12 school or stay; the importance of co-curricular
programs; the behaviour management process and more.

To receive a free copy of the parent's guide to choosing a secondary school
visit choosingasecondaryschool.com.au GRACE LUTHERAN COLLEGE For more
information: *Phone 3203 0066 *Email grace@glc.qld.edu.au*Visit glc.qld.edu.au

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Caboolture Shire Herald


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Pine Rivers Press (Australia)

                           October 17, 2013 Thursday
                               PineRivers Edition

Guide helps parents choose right school

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 204  words


THERE are so many options available in secondary education, it can be a daunting
prospect for parents to choose the best option for their child.

Grace Lutheran College principal Ruth Butler has developed a guide for parents
to help make the decision.

"It will provide 16 essential questions you should ask yourself about schools
and will give you the confidence to make the best decision for your child," Mrs
Butler said.

Questions addressed in the report include: what the difference is between
choosing a primary school and choosing a secondary school; the best way to find
out about a school; whether state school or a non-state school is best for your
child; selecting a school that is coeducational or single sex; faith-based
compared to non-faith based schools; benefits of smaller and bigger schools;
understanding academic results; catering for academically gifted children;
whether to leave your P-12 school or stay; the importance of co-curricular
programs; the behaviour management process and more.

To receive a free copy of the parent's guide to choosing a secondary school
visit choosingasecondaryschool.com.au GRACE LUTHERAN COLLEGE For more
information: Phone 3203 0066 Email grace@glc.qld.edu.auVisit glc.qld.edu.au

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Pine Rivers Press


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    Redcliffe and Bayside Herald (Australia)

                           October 16, 2013 Wednesday
                            RedcliffeBayside Edition

Guide helps parents choose right school

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 205  words


There are so many options available in secondary education, it can be a daunting
prospect for parents to choose the best option for their child.

Grace Lutheran College principal Ruth Butler has developed a guide for parents
to help make the decision.

"It will provide 16 essential questions you should ask yourself about schools
and will give you the confidence to make the best decision for your child," Mrs
Butler said.

Questions addressed in the report include: what the difference is between
choosing a primary school and choosing a secondary school; the best way to find
out about a school; whether state school or a non-state school is best for your
child; selecting a school that is coeducational or single sex; faith-based
compared to non-faith based schools; benefits of smaller and bigger schools;
understanding academic results; catering for academically gifted children;
whether to leave your P-12 school or stay; the importance of co-curricular
programs; the behaviour management process and more.

To receive a free copy of the parent's guide to choosing a secondary school
visit choosingasecondaryschool.com.au Grace Lutheran College For more
information: *Phone 3203 0066 *Email grace@glc.qld.edu.au*Visit glc.qld.edu.au

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Redcliffe & Bayside Herald


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           Sutton Coldfield Observer

                           January 19, 2017 Thursday

SECTION: FEATURES:OTHER; Pg. 46-47

LENGTH: 265  words


T he Sixth Form at Q3 Academy Great Barr seeks to develop the independent
learning, self-reliance and teamwork for young people to realise their
aspirations. The majority of our students will continue onto higher education at
university. However, increasing numbers of students are embarking on their
career journeys through apprenticeship programmes. We therefore seek to prepare
them for that next step in their education through encouragement to take
responsibility for their own learning and building confidence in managing their
own lives.

When choosing subjects to study, it is important to consider your plans for the
future. If you already have a definite career or university course in mind,
ensure that you are choosing the right post-16 courses, whether they are A
Levels or Level 3 BTECs.

Full careers advice and guidance is provided by our bespoke Aspire curriculum,
Academic Ambassador and ACE Director. Together they give expert assistance in
preparing and submitting UCAS applications.

At Q3 Academy we know that learning is not restricted to the classroom. To widen
students' experiences we provide a range of enrichment and extra-curricular
activities for students to participate in.

Our Extended Curriculum includes the opportunity to study for accredited
qualifications such as the Duke of Edinburgh Award and Community Sports Award.

We operate a vertical tutoring system. All students are part of a tutor group,
comprised of students from all years - Year 7 to Year 13. Our Sixth Form
students play an important role as associate tutors, developing their leadership
skills.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Aurora Banner

                             June 3, 2010 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

OSPCA turns to vet college for help with investigator

BYLINE: By Amanda Persico

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 419  words


The OSPCA has handed off the job of choosing someone to investigate the agency.

After announcing it would appoint an investigator of its choosing, the troubled
agency sought an opinion from the Ontario Veterinary College, which provided a
short list of qualified candidates willing to take on the ringworm outbreak
investigation.

The list was then forwarded to a third party not affiliated with the agency who
will choose the investigator, OSPCA board chairperson Rob Godfrey said.

This third party will remain anonymous until a firm is chosen to ensure the
decision is not influenced, he said.

"We understand the concern for independence. This process was the surest way to
get independence," Mr. Godfrey said.

"If it was up to me, the firm would have been named already and we could start."

The board is establishing a terms of reference, timeline and scope for the
investigation, which Mr. Godfrey said will be free and unfettered.

"We welcome this investigation so that we may learn from this situation," he
said. "We want to find out all the good, bad and ugly."

The investigation could take two or three months.

In the meantime, the board continues to oversee the organization's budget,
marketing and fundraising as it always has.

"We know there is an extra special job to be done," Mr. Godfrey said. "There
needs to be a rehabilitation with the public."

The board is also looking at ways to improve in-house protocols ahead of the
report.

"We don't want to jump the gun on the report," Mr. Godfrey said.

"We don't know what the report will say."

Meanwhile, Conservative Newmarket-Aurora MPP Frank Klees is calling for a
legislative change to bring the OSPCA directly under the umbrella of the
Ministry of Community Safety and Correctional Services to ensure there is
provincial oversight of all animal shelters in Ontario.

Mr. Klees is also calling for the separation of the inspection and enforcement
powers of the OSPCA from its function as an animal shelter and is circulating a
petition to that effect.

Mr. Godfrey would not comment when asked about Mr. Klees' stance.

"I can't comment on new legislation, but I know we will live with the changes if
made and, if asked, we will give suggestions."

The agency drew the ire of protesters last month after it announced plans to
euthanize 350 animals at its Woodbine Avenue shelter in an attempt to control a
ringworm outbreak.

Following days of protest, about 100 animals were put down and the rest farmed
out for treatment or remain in the care of the OSPCA'S animal control unit.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Newmarket Era

                             June 3, 2010 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

OSPCA turns to vet college for help with investigator

BYLINE: By Amanda Persico

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 419  words


The OSPCA has handed off the job of choosing someone to investigate the agency.

After announcing it would appoint an investigator of its choosing, the troubled
agency sought an opinion from the Ontario Veterinary College, which provided a
short list of qualified candidates willing to take on the ringworm outbreak
investigation.

The list was then forwarded to a third party not affiliated with the agency who
will choose the investigator, OSPCA board chairperson Rob Godfrey said.

This third party will remain anonymous until a firm is chosen to ensure the
decision is not influenced, he said.

"We understand the concern for independence. This process was the surest way to
get independence," Mr. Godfrey said.

"If it was up to me, the firm would have been named already and we could start."

The board is establishing a terms of reference, timeline and scope for the
investigation, which Mr. Godfrey said will be free and unfettered.

"We welcome this investigation so that we may learn from this situation," he
said. "We want to find out all the good, bad and ugly."

The investigation could take two or three months.

In the meantime, the board continues to oversee the organization's budget,
marketing and fundraising as it always has.

"We know there is an extra special job to be done," Mr. Godfrey said. "There
needs to be a rehabilitation with the public."

The board is also looking at ways to improve in-house protocols ahead of the
report.

"We don't want to jump the gun on the report," Mr. Godfrey said.

"We don't know what the report will say."

Meanwhile, Conservative Newmarket-Aurora MPP Frank Klees is calling for a
legislative change to bring the OSPCA directly under the umbrella of the
Ministry of Community Safety and Correctional Services to ensure there is
provincial oversight of all animal shelters in Ontario.

Mr. Klees is also calling for the separation of the inspection and enforcement
powers of the OSPCA from its function as an animal shelter and is circulating a
petition to that effect.

Mr. Godfrey would not comment when asked about Mr. Klees' stance.

"I can't comment on new legislation, but I know we will live with the changes if
made and, if asked, we will give suggestions."

The agency drew the ire of protesters last month after it announced plans to
euthanize 350 animals at its Woodbine Avenue shelter in an attempt to control a
ringworm outbreak.

Following days of protest, about 100 animals were put down and the rest farmed
out for treatment or remain in the care of the OSPCA'S animal control unit.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Bowling Green Daily News (Kentucky)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 20, 2008 Friday

Cregar choosing Hilltoppers over Cubs: WKU standout wanting one more year in
college

BYLINE: Micheal Compton, The Daily News, Bowling Green, Ky.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 421 words


Jun. 20--Western Kentucky first baseman/outfielder Chad Cregar has decided to
come back for his final year at WKU.

Cregar, who was selected by the Chicago Cubs in the 47th round of the 2008 Major
League Baseball first-year player draft, said he wants to take some time to
rehab from a recent knee operation and is hoping another year at WKU will help
improve his stock for next year's draft. In the MLB, players drafted after their
junior season who don't sign are put back in the pool of potential draftees the
next year.

"(The Cubs) said if I don't sign they'd be interested next year," Cregar said.
"Hopefully, I can get healthy and show them that I can play a position every day
and it will help my draft status."

Cregar, who was selected 1,413th overall, said it was an honor to get selected.

"It's a great feeling," Cregar said.

"Just the fact they are interested in you, that means you have a chance to play
at the professional level, which is awesome."

The left-hander is coming off a record-breaking campaign. Cregar finished with a
team-high .360 batting average with 21 home runs and a single-season school
record 82 RBIs.

Cregar helped lead the Hilltoppers to the Sun Belt Conference Tournament
championship and a berth in the NCAA Tournament. In two NCAA tourney games,
Cregar was 4-for-8 with a homer and four RBIs.

The success came despite a preseason knee injury that limited his playing time
in the field. Cregar underwent knee surgery last week and expects to resume
baseball activities in about eight weeks.

"The doctor couldn't be happier with it," Cregar said. "I've got plenty of time
to rehab it, get stronger and get ready for next year."

With Cregar returning, WKU returns seven every-day players and its top three
pitchers from a team that went 33-27 and claimed the school's second Sun Belt
Tournament Championship.

"I want to get to that Sun Belt Championship again," Cregar said. "I think we
have some new guys that are coming in and some younger guys are going to step up
big time just like they did last year. I think we have a chance to do even
bigger things next year."

To see more of the Bowling Green Daily News, or to subscribe to the newspaper,
go to http://www.bgdailynews.com. Copyright (c) 2008, The Daily News, Bowling
Green, Ky. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints,
email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send
a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee
Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080620-BW-Cregar-choosing-Hilltoppers-over-Cubs-0620

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BW


                    Copyright 2008 Bowling Green Daily News

                              386 of 997 DOCUMENTS




                                  Guardian.com

                                 March 22, 2005

Universities to help deliver health targets

LENGTH: 437 words



HIGHLIGHT: Universities and colleges will play a key part in developing the role
of NHS personal health trainers, the health minister Melanie Johnson revealed
today.


Universities and colleges will play a key part in developing the role of NHS
personal health trainers who will help deliver the targets of the government's
public health white paper, the health minister Melanie Johnson revealed today.

The trainers will work in the community and offer people advice about stopping
smoking, loosing weight and the benefits of a healthy lifestyle, according to
the white paper, Choosing Health, which was published last November.

Ms Johnson told the annual conference of University and College Sport (UCS), the
organisation that represents sport in further and higher education, that the
government would provide a national training package for this new breed of NHS
worker so that quality standards would be met.

Speaking at the conference at Hertfordshire Sports Village at the University of
Hertfordshire in Hatfield she said: "Most health trainers will come from local
communities and will offer 'help from next door' as opposed to 'advice from on
high'.

"They will need good training to fulfil this role and we will provide national
core curriculum and training modules to ensure that skills are quality assured
and standardised and based on best practice principles of how to support
behaviour change.

"We would anticipate that higher and further education will have an important
role in delivering training and continuous professional development for this new
workforce."

Working alongside personal health trainers will be doctors who have qualified in
the new medical specialism of sports and exercise medicine, which was announced
by the Department of Health last month.

Ms Johnson told the conference: "Doctors wishing to become a specialist in
sports and exercise medicine will have to undertake a competency based training
programme and will have to prove their ability to treat sporting injuries, like
a shattered metatarsal that kept top footballers out of action last year."

The minister also predicted that sports and exercise doctors would have a role
in advising disabled people, especially those suffering from long-term
conditions like arthritis, in how they can boost their physical activity.

The minister told the conference that universities and colleges had a key role
to play in helping to deliver the targets of Choosing Health.

She said: "Colleges and universities, just like schools, can influence the lives
of all those on and off campus.

"We will support the initiatives being taken by some colleges and universities
to create healthy working, learning and living environments to increase the
profile of teaching and research and develop healthy alliances in the
community."

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited.Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              387 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           September 13, 2015 Sunday

College criticized for assigning majors through lottery

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 402 words


CHANGSHA - A central China university has caused controversy by making its
students pick their majors through a lottery system.

The auditorium at the University of South China in Hunan Province was especially
crowded the evening of September 8, when hundreds of students queued to pick
their majors through luck of the draw.

Second-year students from the department of civil engineering under the urban
planning school are required to focus on one of the department's seven majors.

Lu Qinghua, an official with the school, said, "We were forced to take these
measures. If choosing a major is solely based on students' wants, some majors
will be overcrowded and others will have difficulty enrolling enough students.
There are some other colleges that use this method."

Lu added that not all of the department's 585 students must rely on luck. The
top 190 students in the department may choose their majors freely. Students who
draw through the lottery still have a chance to switch with another student
before their majors are finally set.

Critics say the university's methods are a sign of lazy governance.

"The college lacks a sense of responsibility. Students should enjoy the right to
choose the majors they prefer, and the college should not sacrifice students'
chances of personal development for the sake of maintaining a balance among
majors," said Internet user "Jingshuishenliu" on news portal Sohu.com.

Si Hanhan, a writer for news portal gmw.cn, said that instead of deciding majors
in such an "irresponsible" way, universities should readjust the majors offered
and eliminate those that don't meet the needs of the job market, as well as
offer more guidance to students when choosing their majors.

Si also said that the school's policy of allowing the top 190 students to choose
their own majors is an act of "discrimination."

An official surnamed Su with the publicity department of the university said the
policy has been in place for years and the school had also sought advice from
instructors and students twice in the past.

"After one year of study, students whose performance is in the top 10 percent
can apply to change majors," she said.

A student who had just drawn a major told newspaper Beijing Times, "I think it
is quite fair. Students are encouraged to study hard to gain the chance to
freely choose majors. Even if we get a dissatisfying major after the lottery, we
can exchange it with others."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                             July 14, 2012 Saturday

Impersonating foreign names

LENGTH: 402 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, July 14 -- There are many institutions in Nepal with foreign names
like Chelsea, Liverpool, Oxford and Barcelona.

The name alone attracts students and they are directly connected with the minds
of my generation. However, in my opinion, adopting foreign names does not seem
appropriate.

Using names of foreign institutions has been one of the most happening issues.
Looking at it from a positive side, a proprietor has the right to select any
name s/he wants for the institution.

But looking at it from another side, after hundreds of years of vast experience,
the known institutions are established now and using the name to gain popularity
in a short period of time just doesn't seem right.

Harvard, Princeton, Cambridge, Stanford are some of the top ranked universities
in the world. No matter how rich one is or how much one desires to be a part of
these universities and explore their potential, they cannot until they have good
grades and an outstanding record to do their best in the related field.

For students who dream of studying in these universities, whose heart beats only
for these particular institutions and have never left a stone unturned to make
their dream turn to reality will only get crestfallen when they find the name of
their dream college being cheaply used in advertisements locally. The love and
desire plunges when they read "Harvard and Princeton in Nepal".

An SLC graduate falls in dilemma after coming across fancy names of the colleges
and they are dithered on choosing a suitable college for themselves.

For some students, however, names of their favorite football club or a
university can be the impetus in choosing one particular institution. Among the
many reasons, this is one of them why foreign names can assist students in
making wrong decisions.

Hence, the act of emulating foreign names of colleges and institutions should be
stopped. Like they say "Never judge a book by its cover".

Those who are impersonating such names should be aware of the fact that the
institution can earn eminence on the basis of the quality of education it
imparts upon students rather than the tags it bears or the name it has.

The writer is a student at Chelsea International Academy in Kathmandu. Published
by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with respect to
this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                             July 15, 2006 Saturday

College tours via video

BYLINE: By Charles Bonenti

SECTION: CHARLES BONENTI

LENGTH: 456 words


In Williamstown, where I live, the packs of pedestrians you see this time of
year following a backward-walking guide aren't tourists.

Well, they are tourists of a sort, but not the ones ordinarily lining up at the
box office of the Williamstown Theatre Festival or strolling aimlessly with ice
cream cones down Spring Street.

These are families checking out colleges -- Williams College, to be specific --
and the backward-walking leader is a Williams student, one of many hired by the
college to be summer campus tour guides.

I like to drift near to catch what's being said. The last time, I heard about
the virtues of the kosher kitchen at the campus Jewish center. Other times, it's
been athletics, dorms, social life -- things that only a site visit can make
real.

That's what these visits are about, and families with teens facing college
choices often use their summer vacations to check out as many campuses as they
can.

There are about 2,200 four-year colleges in the United States, according to the
Chronicle of Higher Education. And visiting even a handful of them can strain
the pocketbook, especially if they are widely separated.

That's why the virtual tours being offered these days by some Internet outfits
can save families time and money -- if only by eliminating some bad prospects.

Two mentioned in an article in the New York Times on July 7 were theu.com and
collegiatechoice.com. Both sell video tours of college campuses on DVD.

Collegiatechoice.com offers DVDs of 350 campuses at $20 each. Theu.com sells a
boxed set of 50 for $40, but plans to set up a system soon that will allow
customers to download one tour free, then create a five-campus tour of their
choosing for $20.

The tours are more or less screen versions of the real-life ones I see going on
at Williams, though, of course, you can't ask questions. But you can listen to
what others ask -- and the answers they get.

Many colleges offer their own DVD tours to prospective applicants, but these
commercial ones have the advantage of being less hyped with promotion, even if
admittedly amateurish.

I checked out collegiatechoice.com and found 27 campuses listed for
Massachusetts, including, as I expected, Williams, Amherst, Mount Holyoke, Smith
and Harvard.

Most of the DVDs are 45 minutes to an hour long. On the Web site, you can check
out reviews by satisfied customers. They don't seem to post the dissatisfied
ones.

Choosing a college is an important decision that can affect a student's entire
life. When the selection gets narrowed down, in-person tours and interviews are
absolutely necessary.

But in the early-elimination rounds, virtual visits can be money- and
timesavers.

Charles Bonenti can be reached at (413) 496 6211 or at
cbonenti@berkshireeagle.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2006 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                              April 1, 2016 Friday

Palestinians opt for Gandhi's non-violence

LENGTH: 403 words

DATELINE: Raipur


Raipur, April 1 -- Choosing a part for the thirst of freedom, residents of
Palestine who are often disturbed by the conflict between their nation and
Israel have started choosing Mahatma Gandhi's Non-Violence rule to raise their
voice against the long prevailing tension.

The fact was shared by Arafat Ahmad Abu Rass who is in the Ministry of Social
Welfare at Government of Palestine with The Pioneer on the sidelines of the
Grand Global Peace Meet III organised on the theme 'Governance, Revolution and
Terrorism' at Pandit Ravishankar Shukla University on Thursday.

He said, "Indians did not use violence for independence. They rather followed
Mahatma Gandhi's Non-Violence concept to protest silently. Similarly, our people
are adapting non-violence in their demonstrations."

"However, the list of such residents is in minority. People of such thoughts are
restricted to leftists in our country. Majority are in the rightists view
believing in the path of violence. It is sad," he added.

He further felt the problem can be tackled only if a large number of people join
hands through non-violence for establishing peace and brotherhood in Palestine.

Showing the on-ground hurdles of the locals at Palestine through a PowerPoint
presentation 'Palestinian Grassroots, Anti: Apartheid Wall Campaign' he referred
the scenario of West Bank and Gaza of his nation.

"We hope to get our Palestine as a State one day,' said the Palestinian
Government Employee. Meanwhile, relating the terror found across the globe,
Jason Torreano, Executive Director of Global Youth Connect, another foreign
speaker in the event who is in India for the first time said the people
spreading violence in United States as well as India should act according to
their religion and follow the path of face to face conversation. "This will
certainly help in the spreading peace," he mentioned.

On the other hand, Gaston Meskens, a Faculty member of Philosophy at University
of Ghent, Belgium, the last speaker here related the term of interpreting the
values of religion as absurd. He said, 'Implementing the historical belief of
any community cannot help in maintaining peace in today's world. Believing is a
different word and following the same is different."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                             June 17, 2014 Tuesday

What after SLC?

BYLINE: HIMALAYAN NEWS SERVICE

LENGTH: 756  words


KATHMANDU: The result of the School Leaving Certificate (SLC) exams showed that
43.92 per cent students got through the Iron Gate. Now it is time for these
successful students to join colleges for higher education. During their search
for colleges, some students tend to follow their friends, some seek help from
parents, seniors, friends or teachers. And colleges advertise their facilities
while offering different kinds of discounts. Therefore, students should be
cautious while choosing colleges so that they don't make wrong choices and
regret in the future.

Excited students, their aspirations

Alish Basnet and Ashish Ghimire graduated from Mount Glory English Boarding High
School, Tahachal this year.

Excited about their higher studies, they have decided on the subject and college
to study. "I am going to study Computer Science as this era is all about
computer technologies," shares Basnet, who is motivated by his elder brother's
IT store to study this subject.

"Determined" about his choice, Basnet claims, "It's the 21st Century and I feel
there is more scope in computer technology than other fields. Meanwhile, I am
also good at subjects like Maths, Accounts and Social Studies."

Ghimire, who has decided to join the Science stream with the guidance of his
parents expresses, "There is good scope for those studying Science and after +2,
I am going to go into the engineering field."

Another SLC graduate, Dipendra Tamang from Nepal Adarsha Secondary School,
Ganabahal, is interested in cooking lessons and is opting for Hotel Management
course.

He shares, "I have knowledge of cooking and I am also interested in the
hospitality industry. Meanwhile, my tuition teacher has suggested me to join
college with Hotel Management course."

But not all students are sure about the subjects and colleges they wish to study
in. Some of them are still confused and Anisha Pokhrel is one of them. The SLC
graduate from Shree Saraswati Niketan Secondary School, Bhramatole opines, "My
seniors have suggested me to study Hotel Management and I almost got tempted to
study that. But I am interested to study Chartered Accountancy (CA). I have told
my parents about my interest. Though I was in a dilemma before, now I am sure I
will join CA after my +2."

Before choosing college

After deciding which subject to study, you need to find the right college. There
are certain criteria while choosing a perfect college where Educationist Dr Mana
Prasad Wagley explains, "The first thing students must inquire about is the
teachers and should opt for colleges having full-time teachers. Then students
should look for availability of extracurricular activities like music, dance et
cetera. Finally look for IT facilities such as wi-fi and proper computer lab."

Having full-time teachers means the teachers can give full attention to the
students, as per Wagley. And extracurricular activities help in their physical
and mental development.

But how would one know about the college? He advises, "Before joining a college,
consult senior students who are studying in that college. If the students keep
these things in mind, they will be able to secure a good educational life and
won't regret later."

Dissatisfied with the information she got from a few colleges, Manzita Khadgi,
who passed SLC exams from Shree Saraswati Niketan Secondary School opines, "I
wanted to study Management course with Computer Science. Though I visited a few
colleges, I am not getting enough information about the course. I am little
disappointed as there is no one to help me out and clear my confusions related
to the subject as I am the first child of my parents."

Dr Wagley finds the problem in the "market that is full of unhealthy
competition. In addition, most parents do not inquire about the colleges before
sending their children and even our schools do not counsel the students about
opting for a college or subject."

To tackle such problems, he advises, "Students should opt for the course
according to the marks obtained and as per their interest. They should keep in
mind about their parents' financial condition too. Parents should at least ask
other parents whose children are studying in that particular college and take
their suggestions before admitting their own children in any college."

However, one needs to be cautious like Khadgi while taking others' advice.
Khadgi reveals, "My friends forced me to join Science stream but I know my aim.
So I am not joining with them as it is about my future and my decision. It is
better not to regret the choice later."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            January 18, 2016 Monday

Private route may be shortcut for some;
Courses at such schools tend to be shorter, but still offer routes to a diploma
or degree

BYLINE: Calvin Yang

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 560 words


Her O-level grades were good enough for her to earn a place at a junior college
or a popular diploma programme at a polytechnic.

But instead of taking the conventional routes like most of her peers after
receiving her O-level results two years ago, 18-year-old Celine Low pursued an
18-month diploma in management studies at SIM Global Education (SIM GE), a
private institution here.

Ms Low, who graduated with the diploma last September and is now pursuing a
business degree from RMIT University through SIM GE, said the shorter time to
finish her studies was a draw.

With module exemptions from her diploma programme, she is on track to finish her
degree in 2018, two years ahead of many of her peers. "I knew what my interests
were. I wanted to learn about marketing and managing a business," said Ms Low.

FAST TRACK

I knew what my interests were. I wanted to learn about marketing and managing a
business. I think choosing the private route was the best decision I've ever
made.

''MS CELINE LOW, on why she chose the private school route.

While the costs of studying at a private school are higher, "I think choosing
the private route was the right decision for me", she said.

Other students choosing to pursue further education at a private institution
after the O levels cite similar reasons, including the variety of higher
education options and the shorter time it takes to claim a diploma or a degree.

Major private institutions here said their enrolment of O-level holders has been
steady over the last few years. An SIM GE spokesman said its foundation studies
and diploma programmes see an annual intake of more than 500 O-level holders.
Currently, the private institution offers two foundation studies and four
diploma programmes, in areas such as accounting and international business.

PSB Academy said O-level student enrolment for its diploma courses, which
typically takes between 12 and 24 months to complete, is "fairly consistent"
every year. Last year, it had an intake of about 1,000 O-level holders. It
offers 11 diploma programmes in areas such as retail management and industrial
engineering.

Some private institutions, such as Kaplan Singapore, have even introduced new
diplomas. Kaplan, which has more than 25 diploma programmes across eight
disciplines such as law, introduced two new diplomas - in property management
and Web technologies - last year. It takes an O-level holder about 10 months to
complete a diploma at the school.

Besides attracting students looking to complete their studies in a shorter time,
private schools also provide a route to further education for those who did not
fare well at the O levels.

Mr P. Danush's grades did not qualify him for a place at a junior college or a
preferred polytechnic course. After his O levels, the 19-year-old took up a
four-month professional certificate in business management, followed by an
eight-month diploma in tourism, hospitality and events management at the
Management Development Institute of Singapore (MDIS).

Mr Danush, who is now studying for an advanced diploma in tourism, hospitality
and events management at MDIS, said the private institution has given him a
chance to pursue his interest.

"I've always wanted to be part of the tourism sector," he said. "So I am glad
that I have a chance to pursue this passion."

Private school helps pave way to JC

Ask Sandra

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ms Low is on track to finish her degree by 2018, two years ahead of
many of her peers. She chose the private route because she knew what she wanted
to focus on and it offered the fastest way to achieving it.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2016 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            Asia News Network (ANN)

                              June 13, 2016 Monday

Chinese firms' preferences of graduates changing

BYLINE: Zhao Xinying

LENGTH: 422  words


Preferences of Chinese college graduates for employment have been changing in
recent years as the country undergoes transformations in its economic and
industrial structure, a recent survey found.

Knowledge-intensive industries such as information, education and healthcare are
hiring more college graduates, while labour-intensive ones such as architecture
and manufacturing, are losing their appeal to job hunters,

according to the College Graduates' Employment Annual Report.

The survey, which was released on Sunday by education data and consulting
company MyCOS, polled more than 250,000 college students who graduated in 2015.

Guo Jiao, deputy director of the MyCOS Research Institute, said the upgrading of
industries comes with a need for workers with a higher education.

Information technology, for example, is leading the current industrial upgrade
in China and has become an engine of economic growth. Reflected in college
graduates' employment, Guo said the proportion of graduates

who chose to work in media, information and telecommunication rose from 8.5 per
cent in 2010 to 10.5 per cent in 2015.

"College graduates' employment is like a barometer, helping decision-makers to
differentiate fast-developing emerging industries from those that are declining
or facing challenges," Guo said.

The report, in its eighth year, also found that small and medium-sized private
companies and enterprises, as employers, are gaining increasing favor from
college graduates, compared with state-owned enterprises or transnational
counterparts.

The proportion of college graduates who landed jobs at small and medium-sized
private companies rose from 45 per cent in 2013 to 52 per cent in 2015, while
the proportion of those who found jobs in the other corporations

dropped.

Guo said the changes indicate that state-owned enterprises are making some
adjustments to their capacity, and transnational corporations are facing
pressure from rising labour costs.

The report also found that the employment rate of college graduates has remained
comparatively stable despite the slowing economy.

Wang Boqing, founder of MyCOS and an expert on college graduate employment, said
the stability resulted from the rising proportion of graduates choosing to start
their own businesses and those choosing postgraduate studies.

According to the National Bureau of Statistics, among the 6.81 million college
students who graduated in 2015, about 204,000 college graduates, or 3 per cent,
chose to start their own business, a 0.1 percentage point rise

from 2014.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 2075


                       Copyright 2016 Asia News Network.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             April 20, 2015 Monday

3 Questions to Ask Before Choosing an Online Graduate IT Program

LENGTH: 818  words

DATELINE: Raleigh


North Carolina State University has issued the following news release:

When it comes to choosing an online graduate program, there are a few key issues
that every student should ask about: cost, length and faculty credentials, just
to name a few.

But coders, hackers, developers and others interested in pursuing an online
graduate degree in computer information technology shouldn't stop there. With
just a few additional questions, they can reveal a lot about the kind of
experience a program offers.

The following questions can make a difference when choosing a program that will
help graduates succeed in a field with fast growth, high salaries and low
unemployment rates.

[Discover how to land a spot in a top online graduate info tech program.]

1. What are the program's technology requirements? Graduate students pursuing
information technology-related degrees may need to work on assignments that
require a lot of computational power, says George Rouskas, professor and
director of graduate programs in the Department of Computer Science at North
Carolina State University.

On-campus students often have access to a data center or high-performance
computing equipment that is much more powerful than a typical laptop. Online
students should check to make sure they will have virtual access to labs or
other ways of accessing the tools they need to complete their assignments,
Rouskas says.

If not, then they'll need to make sure they have a powerful personal computer.

"From a program management perspective, the last thing you want to do is have a
student be admitted and start registering for classes then only to find out they
have to spend $400 on software," says Michael J. Frasciello, director of online
learning for Syracuse University's College of Engineering and Computer Science.

He says his program makes it a point to tell students exactly what technology
they'll need before they even apply.

2. What chance do students have to engage with faculty and teaching assistants?
Graduate students can assume their courses will be challenging, experts say, so
they should make sure they have ways to connect with instructors if they need
help.

Students should ask if any classes, office hours or study sessions are
interactive and synchronous - meaning they take place in real time - Frasciello
says.

[Decide between live or self-paced online classes.]

"We are big advocates of having at least one weekly synchronous session in which
students can interface with their professor and TA in real time and online," he
says. "A lot of this stuff is so manually complex. If I'm working on a
programming problem, it's pretty hard to explain in an email and then get some
feedback a day later. It's really difficult to teach these courses in a read and
write and respond model."

Andreas Orphanides, a librarian at North Carolina State who is also enrolled in
the school's online master's of computer science program, says he likes the fact
that some of his online classes run concurrently with on-campus courses, so he
can listen to the lectures [#x200b]and discuss his homework on forums with
students who are all at the same point in the process.[#x200b]

"I kind of like the fact that I am in classes that are also 'real' but I can see
the appeal to be able to power through a bunch of lectures at your own pace," he
says.

3.  Are there sufficient academic opportunities? In an online computer
information technology [#x200b]program, students are less likely to have the
chance to help faculty with research, an opportunity that can lead to new
knowledge, being published and involvement with a new commercial product,
experts say. So if a student is interested in research, he or she should ask if
that's a possibility.

"Increasingly, we have admitted students who ask about the opportunity to work
on research," Frasciello says. "We've seen just this last year that we're
getting half a dozen inquiries."

Samantha Luber[#x200b], a software engineer on Microsoft's Skype team,[#x200b]
looked aggressively for opportunities to assist with research during her first
year in the online master's in computer science program at the University of
Southern California. It worked out, and she was able to attend a conference and
demo[#x200b] an app she created as a result of her research.

[Convince your employer to pay for an online degree.]

Students who are interested in researching and writing a thesis should confirm
their program offers that option before enrolling, Luber says, because not all
online graduate programs in information technology do.

She also recommends that students ask whether their prospective online program
offers a degree concentration or courses in their desired specialty.

"Just make sure they are available," she says. "A lot of master's programs have
concentrations, but they don't always offer all of them online."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.co

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Examiner Newspaper

                            April 30, 2015 Thursday
                         Examiner First Edition Edition

'Think twice about tests'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 308 words


ADELAIDE - Doctors are being urged to question the necessity of a string of
tests and procedures in a bid to protect patients and cut Australia's health
costs.

Five medical colleges and societies have each come up with a list of "5 Things
clinicians and consumers should question" relating to their area of expertise.

They've identified tests, treatments and procedures they think are of proven low
value or carry an unnecessary risk.

The lists include recommendations on food allergy testing, prostate cancer
screening, vitamin D screening, monitoring of type 2 diabetes and ankle and
spine imaging.

The lists are the first to be released in the Choosing Wisely Australia
campaign, modelled on a US program, and run by NPS MedicineWise.

"The initiative challenges the notion that more is always better when it comes
to healthcare," its chief executive, Dr Lynn Weekes, said.

Some of the 'choosing wisely' recommendations include:

Don't order imaging for patients with non-specific acute low back pain.

Question the long-term use of one of Australia's most prescribed medicines,
proton pump inhibitors, used to treat stomach acid and reflux.

Alternative-unorthodox methods, such as homeopathy and kinesiology, should not
be used for allergy testing or treatment.

Don't advocate routine self-monitoring of blood glucose for people with type 2
diabetes who are on oral medication only.

Don't perform prostate-specific antigen testing for prostate cancer screening in
men with no symptoms and whose life expectancy is less than seven years.

Read the lists by the Australasian College for Emergency Medicine, the
Australasian Society of Clinical Immunology and Allergy, The Royal Australian
College of General Practitioners, The Royal Australian and New Zealand College
of Radiologists and The Royal College of Pathologists of Australasia at
www.choosingwisely.org.au.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                            March 28, 2012 Wednesday

Aiming for an extra edge in a quest for education;
Different systems offer students a way to prepare for university admission

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER F. SCHUETZE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 721 words

DATELINE: PARIS

ABSTRACT

Before going abroad to attend universities of their choice, many students have
to work to achieve top grades, get diplomas recognized and take supplementary
admissions tests.

FULL TEXT

Ekta Golchha started preparing for university early.

She moved from Biratnagar, Nepal, to Pune, India, just to be able to attend an
International Baccalaureate secondary school that would eventually allow her to
study in Britain.

''If I had stayed in Nepal, I would have probably not made it here,'' said the
student,  who is now studying for a master's degree in mathematical
computational finance at Oxford University, after finishing her bachelor's in
mathematics at the University of Warwick last year.

More students are leaving their home countries during the transition to
universities, or even earlier, and it is not always an easy move.

Students or their parents have to fill out complicated visa forms, set up bank
accounts, book plane tickets and find cellphone plans. And before that, they
have to work to achieve top grades, get diplomas recognized and take
supplementary admissions tests.

The International Baccalaureate, or I.B., system is especially popular in
countries like Nepal, where national education diplomas are not easily
recognized by foreign universities.

It has become ''international currency,'' according to Judith Fabian, the
International Baccalaureate's chief academic officer.

According to their own figures, there are 1,836 universities worldwide that
recognize the system.

''The recognition it has been given by universities is a measure of success of
creating of well-rounded individuals,'' Ms. Fabian said by telephone.

The American S.A.T., which formerly stood for the Scholastic Assesment Test,  is
now considered by hundreds of universities in more 60 countries, according to
Leslie Sepuka of the College Board, the nonprofit association that runs the
exam.

More than two million students worldwide took the S.A.T. each year, according to
Ms. Sepuka.

Also coordinated by the College Board is the Advanced Placement, or A.P.,
program, which allows high school students to get college course credits.

More than 1,200 secondary schools outside the United States offer A.P. courses
and exams. Though largely an American system - only 5 percent of students taking
A.P. exams do so outside of the United States - more than 600 non-American
universities recognize them for credit, placement or admission credential,
according to Ms. Sepuka.

Since universities in different countries have different standards, students are
well-served in knowing where they will ultimately apply, according to Shaun
McElroy, a high school counselor at the Shanghai American School, who runs the
blog International Counselor.

According to Mr. McElroy, his students choose to pursue either the I.B. diploma
or take A.P. classes, depending on where they hope to study.

''Choosing a college is like choosing a spouse - you want to be attracted to the
person you marry, but at same time there has to be more than physical
attraction,'' said Laura Vincens, a college counselor at the American School of
Paris.

Most of the school's graduates will continue onto university, with many of them
going abroad. While some have visited their future campuses, others will be
heading to distant and unknown locales.

Students who come from Paris usually look toward big cities, Ms. Vincens said.

Many of those who choose the United States will be looking at New York, Boston
or Los Angeles.

''One factor that tends to be a major starting point for most of students is
location,'' Ms. Vincens said.

Many English-language universities require standardized language testing.
Students whose mother tongue is not English will take the Test of English as a
Foreign Language, or Toefl, for admission to U.S. and Canadian universities, or
the International English Language Testing System, or  IELTS,  exam for British
schools.

The British Council in Hong Kong runs workshops for students who are headed to
universities in the United Kingdom.

For many students and families who have never set foot in Britain, the key is
managing expectations, said Sophia Chan-Combrink, the council's education
manager.

''A lot of parents and students want to know more about the culture and about
interpersonal relations,'' she said. ''Parents want to know that their kids are
safe.''

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            China Daily - US Edition

                              June 13, 2016 Monday

Industry preferences of graduates changing

LENGTH: 494  words


Preferences of Chinese college graduates for employment have been changing in
recent years as the country undergoes transformations in its economic and
industrial structure, a recent survey found.

Legacy industries losing appeal for today's job hunters, survey finds; smaller
is looking better

Preferences of Chinese college graduates for employment have been changing in
recent years as the country undergoes transformations in its economic and
industrial structure, a recent survey found.

Knowledge-intensive industries such as information, education and healthcare are
hiring more college graduates, while labor-intensive ones such as architecture
and manufacturing, are losing their appeal to job hunters, according to the
College Graduates' Employment Annual Report.

The survey, which was released on Sunday by education data and consulting
company MyCOS, polled more than 250,000 college students who graduated in 2015.

Guo Jiao, deputy director of the MyCOS Research Institute, said the upgrading of
industries comes with a need for workers with a higher education.

Information technology, for example, is leading the current industrial upgrade
in China and has become an engine of economic growth. Reflected in college
graduates' employment, Guo said the proportion of graduates who chose to work in
media, information and telecommunication rose from 8.5 percent in 2010 to 10.5
percent in 2015.

"College graduates' employment is like a barometer, helping decision-makers to
differentiate fast-developing emerging industries from those that are declining
or facing challenges," Guo said.

The report, in its eighth year, also found that small and medium-sized private
companies and enterprises, as employers, are gaining increasing favor from
college graduates, compared with State-owned enterprises or transnational
counterparts.

The proportion of college graduates who landed jobs at small and medium-sized
private companies rose from 45 percent in 2013 to 52 percent in 2015, while the
proportion of those who found jobs in the other corporations dropped.

Guo said the changes indicate that State-owned enterprises are making some
adjustments to their capacity, and transnational corporations are facing
pressure from rising labor costs.

The report also found that the employment rate of college graduates has remained
comparatively stable despite the slowing economy.

Wang Boqing, founder of MyCOS and an expert on college graduate employment, said
the stability resulted from the rising proportion of graduates choosing to start
their own businesses and those choosing postgraduate studies.

According to the National Bureau of Statistics, among the 6.81 million college
students who graduated in 2015, about 204,000 college graduates, or 3 percent,
chose to start their own business, a 0.1 percentage point rise from 2014.

zhaoxinying@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily USA 06/13/2016 page4)

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1496/73/146580238886.jpg

f04da2db112218c8369911.jpg

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1496


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                              June 13, 2016 Monday

Industry preferences of graduates changing

BYLINE: Zhao Xinying

LENGTH: 493  words


Preferences of Chinese college graduates for employment have been changing in
recent years as the country undergoes transformations in its economic and
industrial structure, a recent survey found.

Legacy industries losing appeal for today's job hunters, survey finds; smaller
is looking better

Preferences of Chinese college graduates for employment have been changing in
recent years as the country undergoes transformations in its economic and
industrial structure, a recent survey found.

Knowledge-intensive industries such as information, education and healthcare are
hiring more college graduates, while labor-intensive ones such as architecture
and manufacturing, are losing their appeal to job hunters, according to the
College Graduates' Employment Annual Report.

The survey, which was released on Sunday by education data and consulting
company MyCOS, polled more than 250,000 college students who graduated in 2015.

Guo Jiao, deputy director of the MyCOS Research Institute, said the upgrading of
industries comes with a need for workers with a higher education.

Information technology, for example, is leading the current industrial upgrade
in China and has become an engine of economic growth. Reflected in college
graduates' employment, Guo said the proportion of graduates who chose to work in
media, information and telecommunication rose from 8.5 percent in 2010 to 10.5
percent in 2015.

"College graduates' employment is like a barometer, helping decision-makers to
differentiate fast-developing emerging industries from those that are declining
or facing challenges," Guo said.

The report, in its eighth year, also found that small and medium-sized private
companies and enterprises, as employers, are gaining increasing favor from
college graduates, compared with State-owned enterprises or transnational
counterparts.

The proportion of college graduates who landed jobs at small and medium-sized
private companies rose from 45 percent in 2013 to 52 percent in 2015, while the
proportion of those who found jobs in the other corporations dropped.

Guo said the changes indicate that State-owned enterprises are making some
adjustments to their capacity, and transnational corporations are facing
pressure from rising labor costs.

The report also found that the employment rate of college graduates has remained
comparatively stable despite the slowing economy.

Wang Boqing, founder of MyCOS and an expert on college graduate employment, said
the stability resulted from the rising proportion of graduates choosing to start
their own businesses and those choosing postgraduate studies.

According to the National Bureau of Statistics, among the 6.81 million college
students who graduated in 2015, about 204,000 college graduates, or 3 percent,
chose to start their own business, a 0.1 percentage point rise from 2014.

zhaoxinying@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily 06/13/2016 page4)

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/73/146579428833.jpg

f04da2db112218c8369911.jpg

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Wirral Globe

                             March 28, 2017 Tuesday

Civilians could become chief constables under Government plans

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 405 words


Civilians could compete with senior police for chief constable jobs under new
Government plans.

It is understood that people from outside policing could take the top roles in
England and Wales following Home Office proposals.

The Home Office said choosing police leaders is of the "highest importance", and
the College of Policing said individuals would be required to undergo
"appropriate training."

A consultation on the plans is believed to have begun.

Giselle Lockett, lead for professional development at the College of Policing,
said: "The appointment to become a chief constable requires a candidate to meet
some of the most stringent requirements in policing.

"Currently, to become a chief constable, you must pass the Police National
Assessment Centre and complete a four-month Strategic Command Course.

"The requirements reflect the seriousness and importance of the role and are set
to identify officers capable of being an effective chief officer.

"The proposed legislation would allow police and crime commissioners to appoint
a chief constable from outside policing who would then be required to undergo
appropriate training specified by the college.

"We will now consider these proposals alongside our current work to provide
advice on appointments including those from chief officer roles in the fire
service."

A Home Office spokesman said: "Choosing our police leaders is of the highest
importance to the future of the service and schemes such as Direct Entry bring
people from a wide range of backgrounds into forces."

The Direct Entry scheme allows candidates from outside policing to join the
service at certain ranks, and is seen to offer the opportunity to widen the
talent pool and bring in people from a diverse range of backgrounds.

A recent survey published by the College of Policing identified a lack of
available chief officer candidates, and a lack of diversity and ability to share
ideas, thoughts and experiences.

The college has already announced it plans to consult on the experience and
qualifications required for chief officers.

In November, Home Secretary Amber Rudd called on police chiefs to look outside
the service when recruiting new personnel.

She said talent can be found in the public and private sectors, as well as from
within forces.

Delivering her first major speech on policing since her appointment, she
highlighted the importance of "workforce reform" as emergency services face
evolving threats.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Eastbourne Herald

                           August 22, 2012 Wednesday

Poor students to get helping hand from university

LENGTH: 365  words


STUDENTS unable to move on to higher education because of their financial
backgrounds are being given a helping hand by the University of Brighton.

The university is committing more than £7 million to supporting students who
might otherwise be unable to enjoy the benefits of higher education.

The announcement comes as students receive A-level results and consider their
options in higher education.

The £7 million support includes a range of bursaries, scholarships and fee
waivers worth thousands of pounds per student and are designed to open the
university door to those who previously could not afford to attend.

In addition, the university is holding a series of drop-in advice sessions this
month (August) at schools and colleges across Sussex to help A-level students
make the right choice for their higher education courses.

Professor Stuart Laing, the university's deputy vice-chancellor, said, "This can
be a confusing time in terms of the raft of changes the government has
introduced, including increased fees.

"Some students, undoubtedly, will have found these changes difficult to
understand and we empathise with them.

"Our primary concern is the welfare and well-being of students and our priority
is ensuring applicants are equipped with all the information they need to make
the right choice for them and their families.

"Choosing the right university is a big decision and I understand this can be a
stressful time.

"Our session advisers, many current students, will offer information and
individual advice.

"They will answer questions on all aspects of applications and the university
experience including choosing the right subject and course, enjoying university
sport and social amenities and facilities, opportunities for volunteering,
getting to grips with student finance and applying for funding."

Professor Laing said the university was also strengthening ties with local
schools and colleges with a new programme called Compact, starting in September.

He said, "This is aimed at providing additional support to local students who
may be considering higher education options available at the university. "

Further information is available at www.brighton.ac.uk/myfuture

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPEH


                       Copyright 2012 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            February 22, 2008 Friday
                                 First Edition

Hard job finding place for greats

BYLINE: Roy Masters - Roy Masters was a member of the panel that selected the
greatest 100 players.

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 929 words


Some great names are missing from rugby league's top players of the past 100
years - particularly second-rowers such as Manly's enduring champion Steve
Menzies, Queensland's combustible Gorden Tallis and my favourite, that menacing
package of talent and temper Les Boyd.

But if anyone let them down, it was the members of the Australian Rugby League
voting college who neglected to vote. Of the 120 eligible to vote, only 68 did
so.

So close were some of the selections that, had a few more voted, some players
would have been out of the top 100 and others in.

Voters were only required to name 64 players because the college had already
inducted 36 players into a hall of fame.

Profiles of 175 players, almost all Test representatives, were sent to the
college last September and members were asked to select 23 from the period
1908-45 and the same number from 1946-2007.

If the college can be criticised for not taking its responsibility seriously
with the selection of the top 100, there is no doubt they attended to their
duties diligently in choosing the best team of all time. On December 10 in
Sydney, 23 from the college met and were provided with profiles of the 100 - to
be announced tomorrow.

The discussion began with fullback and proceeded to each position in turn.

No open vote was taken at the meeting, with the 23 members asked to place their
secret ballot papers into boxes. The names of the top 13 players, together with
four reserves and a coach, will be announced at a Men Of League ball in May.

The ARL built in safeguards to ensure voting blocs couldn't be formed, choosing
23 judges with diverse backgrounds, such as old an Kangaroo Ferris Ashton and a
recently retired one Greg Alexander, and juxtaposing from different eras
Australian coaches, Frank Stanton and Chris Anderson, administrators including
Ken Arthurson and Geoff Carr and journalists Alan Clarkson and David Morrow.

Well, there was one bloc which has been in existence for 100 years - the
Queenslanders.

There were seven of them and such is their chromosomal loyalty to the territory
north of the Tweed, whenever the name of a NSW hero came up, they had a Maroon
to better him.

When the name of halfback Andrew Johns - declared the best player of the last 30
years by a magazine - was raised, we half expected the bananabenders to counter
with Laurie Spina.

They did nominate Allan Langer, and the issue of Johns's admitted drug-taking,
but there was a strong opposing view on Johns's off-field behaviour from NSW
admirers of the champion Newcastle half. If there was any weakness in the
procedure, it was with a problem which has perplexed selectors for a century: a
player's versatility.

When it comes to fullback, only two names can seriously be considered: Clive
Churchill and Graeme Langlands, although the Queenslanders mentioned Frank
Drake, the first fullback to score a try in an Anglo-Australia Test.

Langlands also played centre and wing, and some judges present argued his best
position was centre. If the judges therefore split their votes on Langlands
three ways, he won't make the top 13, a serious omission according to many,
considering Bob Fulton - one of the code's first four Immortals - described
"Changa" as the best player he had ever seen.

However, the ARL cleverly organised a parachute for the versatile champions,
ensuring that while they may not make the starting team, they will land close to
the square.

The judges, after naming 13 players on a blank team sheet, were also asked to
list the top 10 of all time in preferential order.

Players who did not achieve 51 per cent of the votes for positions in the
starting team but polled highly in the top 10, made the bench of four.

In other words, if Churchill received 51 per cent of the votes for fullback but
the Reg Gasnier-Dally Messenger centre combination, or Reg Gasnier-Dave Brown
pairing outnumbered Gasnier-Langlands, or wingers such as Brian Bevan and Ken
Irvine kept Changa out of a position on the flanks, there was a big chance the
St George champion would appear in the list of four reserves.

Ditto for Wally Lewis, should Fulton take the pivot spot and John Raper be most
judges's choice as lock.

Or Arthur Beetson, if props such as Roy Bull and Glenn Lazarus beat him to the
prop's positions, or Ron Coote and one of the fabled second-rowers from the
pre-war period beat him as a back-rower.

The position of hooker is the one which has changed most over the past century,
now that scrums are no longer contests and forwards can kick the ball without
coaches threatening to "cut their legs off".

The best of them all, in my opinion, who wasn't chosen, was Melbourne captain
Cameron Smith. It's always difficult comparing players of different eras. This
can even happen when they are on the field at the same time.

One of the judges, Cyril Connell, who toured with the 1956-57 Kangaroos and was
Wayne Bennett's long-term recruitment officer at the Broncos, told a story of
seeing Warrington's great winger, Bevan, as they warmed up for a match against
Other Nationalities.

Bevan, who played briefly for the Roosters, moved to England after World War II
and set try-scoring records for the ages.

Shocked at the sight of the mummified, toothless, bald Bevan, seemingly taped
from shoulder to ankle, Connell remarked to teammate, Bobby Banks, "Who's that
Aussie? Surely, he's not playing."

Kangaroos coach, Churchill, overhearing the conversation, said, "That's Brian
Bevan. Get a good look at him now because when the game starts, you won't see
him."

Bevan scored in the opening minutes, racing over the try line untouched.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Teeming with talent ... Darren Lockyer is the only current
player to have made the top 100 greatest players in the game's history in
Australia. Photo: Alex Livesy/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2008 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Chronicle of Philanthropy
                              www.philanthropy.com

                                 April 4, 2016

News About Small Gifts From Others Can Prod People to Give

BYLINE: Eden Stiffman

LENGTH: 460  words

ABSTRACT

Fundraisers may gain from mentioning a modest previous donation early in the
solicitation process, says a University of Pittsburgh study.

FULL TEXT

Not everyone gives out of the goodness of their hearts. Research has shown that
some people give simply because they don't want to appear ungenerous. These
"reluctant" donors may be influenced by hearing about what others have given, a
tactic commonly employed by fundraisers.

New research may add important twists for fundraisers: Don't get too greedy in
choosing examples, and think carefully about the timing of a request for bigger
gifts.

The Test

David Klinowski, a Ph.D. candidate in economics at the University of Pittsburgh,
enlisted college students to test the best strategies for using information
about prior gifts to boost donations. The students were given a simple computer
game to play that let them earn up to $15 and tested their willingness to give.

The students were divided into three groups. After the game was over, a screen
popped up asking participants if they were interested in giving a portion of
their winnings to charity. If they were, a donation page appeared, allowing the
students to enter an amount of their choosing.

The first group was told about gifts other donors had already made of 50 cents
or $5 before being asked to contribute. The second group was asked to contribute
first and then was told about the 50-cent or $5 gifts. A control group wasn't
told about any previous donations.

Students in the first group were 61 percent more likely to give after hearing
about the smaller gift but 40 percent less likely to give after hearing about
the larger gift. It also influenced how much they gave: Those who were told
about the 50-cent contribution donated more than any other group - 111 percent
more than the control group.

For students in the second group, hearing about previous contributions did not
influence the likelihood that they would give.

Women were much more responsive to information about past donations than men.
Women in the first group gave significantly more when told about a smaller
contribution than a larger one, but those in the second group gave more after
hearing about the larger gift.

Neither scenario significantly affected the amount that men gave.

Digging Deeper

Forty-one percent of the students were identified as reluctant donors - those
who gave because they didn't want to seem ungenerous. Those students were highly
responsive to information about previous contributions.

Reluctant donors create excuses for declining to give, says Mr. Klinowski.
"Informing them of others' donations affects their ability to create such
excuses."

Find It

"Reluctant Donors and Their Reactions to Social Information," by David
Klinowski, University of Pittsburgh.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Chronicle of Philanthropy
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   The Daily Independent (Ashland, Kentucky)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 13, 2011 Wednesday

Choosing football pays off for Stringfellow

BYLINE: Aaron Snyder, The Daily Independent, Ashland, Ky.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 430 words


April 13--LLOYD -- Austin Stringfellow faced his last chance to ever suit up in
a football uniform again.

The Greenup County senior had played only basketball since age 10, and his
football experience consisted solely of Junior Football League.

Musketeers coach Mike Copley and his team were open to as many quality athletes
as they could find in the hallways, and, after talking to several
football-playing friends and Copley, Stringfellow was convinced to strap on the
pads for his senior season.

"I'm really glad I came out to play football," Stringfellow said on Tuesday.

So is Union College, with which Stringfellow signed a letter of intent in March.

"I checked out other colleges but I just liked what (Union) offered me, not just
for football but as a school," Stringfellow said. "I really liked the coaching
staff (headed by 10th-year coach Tommy Reid), the facilities and the
student/teacher ratio."

The Bulldogs compete in the NAIA Mid-South Conference and are coming off a 7-4
season. Stringfellow chose Union over Pikeville, Kentucky Christian,
Campbellsville and Illinois College.

Stringfellow had a fine senior basketball season, but colleges took notice of
what he accomplished as a defensive back this past fall as part of the 5-6
Musketeers.

The 6-foot-4, 175-pounder said "everything was different" when he first joined
the Musketeers' football team.

"At first it was tough," he said. "I never really lifted in my life. I was
waking up at 6 a.m. to pass football with (quarterback Mason Rister)."

Stringfellow quickly became a threat in the secondary, using his exceptional
leaping ability and good hands to grab six interceptions. Twice he picked off
two passes in a game.

Chris Mullins, who has since taken over the head coaching position upon Copley's
resignation, was the team's defensive back coach.

"He taught me everything he knew about reading the quarterback," Stringfellow
said.

Stringfellow also credited Copley for helping him prepare for his college
opportunity.

"I realized the amount of effort he put in (as a coach)," Stringfellow said. "I
respect him for that."

Stringfellow plans to study to be an athletic trainer at Union.

AARON SNYDER can be reached at asnyder@dailyindependent.com or (606) 326-2664.

To see more of The Daily Independent or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.dailyindependent.com. Copyright (c) 2011, The Daily Independent,
Ashland, Ky. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110413-KA-Choosing-football-pays-off-for-Stringfellow-0413-20110413

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KA


                      Copyright 2011 The Daily Independent

                              404 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 1, 2013 Thursday

Washington: 'Good Debt' Can Bolster Earning Potential, Official Says

LENGTH: 608  words

DATELINE: Washington


US Department of Defense, The Government of USA has issued the following News
Release:

Establishing "good debt" can be valuable for future earning potential,
particularly in today's challenging economy, a Defense Department official
advised here recently.

Obtaining a student loan for a college education or a higher degree to pursue a
professional career is an example of good debt for service members and their
families when they make the right choices, Barbara Thompson, director of the
Defense Department's office of family policy, children and youth, said in an
interview with American Forces Press Service and the Pentagon Channel.

"You want to make sure you analyze the return on your education investment so
you will have a higher earning potential," Thompson said. Education is an
investment in a service member's future, because those with a higher-education
degree usually have better earning potential and less unemployment, she said, so
it is important for service members to have a plan for their career
opportunities when they transition out of the military.

Taking out student loan, Thompson added, could be part of that strategy, but she
cautioned that those who choose this option should do their homework.

"Whether for a service member or a family member, it's important to think about
[which] student loan would be the right fit, and how much debt [one] should
incur," she said.

Thompson advised seeking practical counseling advice to pursue the best
education choices in schools and in funding.

Military members and their families have numerous resources at their fingertips,
she noted, with installation education offices among them.

"They have people who can help go through the pros and cons of what would be a
smart decision," Thompson said. "Debt is something that [can] take on a life of
its own if you're not careful."

Education office counselors can provide service members and families advice on
applying for student loans that suit individual needs, in addition to choosing
the best college for their chosen studies.

In addition to seeking counselors' advice, Thompson encouraged service members
and families to use the Post-9/11 GI Bill and other resources that are available
to help in paying for an education at a school that's within their financial
means. Scholarships and other resources are available to reduce the cost of a
college education, she noted.

Thompson pointed out that the Military OneSource website has a wealth of
information for people seeking higher education.

"MilitaryOneSource.mil is a really good tool for our service members and
families, not only to seek out a career choice, but also to find information
about financial assistance and choosing the right college," she said.

Military OneSource has "wonderful career counseling," especially for spouses,
Thompson said.

"It helps you define what you want to do and study. It helps you figure out the
best path to take," she added.

The Bureau of Labor Statistics also can help with choosing fields of study,
Thompson said. The bureau offers a website that shows the earning potential in a
variety of professions.

The varying costs of an education are a major factor to weigh, Thompson said,
adding that a popular way to cut expenses for a bachelor's degree is to attend a
community college for two years and transfer to a university to finish.

"There [also] are a lot of wonderful opportunities to have your loan waived for
certain professions for advanced degrees," she said. "It's important to match
your aspirations with your opportunities ... [and] to offset the cost of getting
an advanced degree."

For more information please visit: http://www.defense.gov

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 29, 2015 Tuesday

Choosing life partners is not like choosing dresses, avers expert

BYLINE: Jaideep Shenoy

SECTION: MANGALURU

LENGTH: 307 words


MANGALURU: Likes and dislikes of couple is not a reason for increasing divorces
in India, said Spurgeon, associate professor of Madras Christian College,
Chennai. Speaking at a session on family work interface at School of Social
Work, Roshni Nilaya organized by Mangalore chapter of National Institute of
Personnel Management in association with the Human Resource Management Forum on
Saturday, Spurgeon said, "Increasing divorces shows the unpreparedness of our
new generation."

"Our young people take more time to choose dress items than choosing their life
partner. This is not right. Dress you have selected can be changed or discarded
whenever you want but you cannot change your husband or wife like that. Dress
you can at least gift to someone. Nobody will be interested to accept your wife
or husband as a gift. Hence you should choose your life partner very carefully,"
Spurgeon noted.

Dwelling on topics like conflict resolution, he said when there are confusions,
its is better not to take decisions. We should understand the importance of love
over likes. Relationship should be built upon love not on likes. There are many
occasions in life one may compare his/her spouse with others. These
generalizations should be avoided for a healthy family life. No one is like any
other one, he noted.

Striking a balance between family and work is very important. One should not
hamper the other. It is very sad to note, there are many young people who
postpone their marriage for the sake of their career. There are many couples who
postpone birth of their children for the sake of the company in which they work.
Surprisingly, there are companies that are insisting employees to avoid child
birth in their families. This is ridiculous and authorities should view such
instances very seriously, he added.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Weekly Times (Australia)

                           January 23, 2013 Wednesday
                               1 - FIRST Edition

Squeeze on ag studies

BYLINE: CHRIS McLENNAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 359 words


FEES SURGE

THE Federal Government has made it more expensive to study agricultural science
at a time the nation's leaders want more students to choose it as a career.

On January 1, the Government quietly introduced changes to HECS fees for science
and mathematics students at university.

The change effectively doubles the tertiary cost of choosing those subjects.

Numerous government inquiries -- federal and state -- have highlighted the
national shortage of agricultural science graduates as holding agriculture and
agribusiness back.

About 800 graduates are being produced for more than 8000 jobs.

Before this year, the Federal Government recognised science and mathematics as
national priorities which attracted a lower student contribution rate.

The government paid the university the difference to make up the gap.

From January 1, all Commonwealth-supported students enrolled in mathematics and
science units of study will be charged at the Band 2 rate.

Students choosing to study agriculture are already charged at the Band 2 rate,
along with health, computing and engineering.

Based on 2012 rates, the maximum contribution per full-time student has
increased from $4520 to $8050.

Meanwhile, the University of Melbourne has recorded a big increase in the number
of offers to students for the Bachelor of Agriculture course in 2013, up 87 per
cent to 90 places.

The Dean of the Melbourne School of Environment Professor, Rick Roush, said the
figures were encouraging of a renewed interest in the diverse and interesting
careers in the agricultural sector.

Victoria has recently produced about 270 graduates annually in
agriculture-related degrees.

Higher Education Minister Peter Hall said the recent release of tertiary offers
shows vital sections of the economy will have the graduates they need for the
future.

``We are on track to have more skilled professionals entering the agriculture,
science and education industries,'' Mr Hall said.

``These future farmers, teachers, scientists and innovators will play a vital
role in strengthening our community and driving our economic prosperity,'' Mr
Hall said.

Offers in agriculture increased 14 per cent since 2012.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: WKT


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                           September 28, 2014 Sunday

Compare options Universities everywhere Interests Open negotiation The
university close to Mom

SECTION: REFLEJOS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 551 words


(College101) -- Pat is a school teacher in Rockford. When her son was ready to
go to college, he already knew where he wanted to go: Southern Illinois
University, where his best friend was. The summer before entering college, he
learned that his friend had left the institution. Hastily, they filed an
application for Northern Illinois University, which is closer to home.

His good grades and high scores on tests allowed him to enter without a problem
and now he's happy in Northern, plus he's doing well. But Pat says she will
encourage her son to submit more applications. "I would advise anyone to apply
to a wide range of universities," she says. "You need to have options."

Applying to college will probably be the first decision your child makes that
will have significant and lasting consequences. And it can seem impossible to
know how to get started with over 3,800 establishments to choose from.

Your advice will be crucial, but ultimately your child will be making the
decision on their own. However, it may be hard for parents to resist imposing
their own dreams and desires. But pressuring a student to enroll at a university
that he/she doesn't want to attend can lead to resentment, even failure or
neglect. Parents want the best for their children. If that is true, and as noted
by Charles Shields, author of The College Guide for Parents, the "best" will be
the place where your child will be more successful.

So how do you help your child know what they want and to choose the college that
will let them get it?

First encourage your child to do a self-assessment writing answers to questions
like "What are my interests? What is my goal for this and the next four years?
What are my personality traits? What values ??are important to me?" They may
seem broad questions, but putting the answers on paper should begin to raise the
thoughts that lead to their choice of college. This exercise can help those
teenagers who react to anxiety with paralysis and leave everything until the
last minute.

Then make a list for you of what is important in choosing a school for your
child. Ask him to do the same. You may have some non-negotiable conditions, but
try to keep an open mind to seek common ground. It may also help to talk openly
about anxiety--candidacy to universities can be an agonizing process for
adolescents, because they have to put their egos in the hot seat and face the
possibility of rejection.

Choosing a college is not a science: it's an emotional choice with many
uncertain variables. Recognizing this can help relax tensions. But you should be
optimistic, it's a very exciting time in your family life. Once certain
expectations have been established, it's time to move to specifics.

Have your child make a list of the characteristics of the colleges he/she would
like to go to, such as size and location--the two issues on which parents and
children often have most disagreements.

The simplest question to answer is to determine in what region of the country
would they like to live. Then you need to determine the size of the school, if
it's a large public one or a small liberal arts one. You should also think about
the size of the population in which they want to live. Are they interested in
more urban environments, or do they prefer to be in nature and spend the
weekends skiing?

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              408 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Albert & Logan News (Australia)

                            March 30, 2011 Wednesday
                                  1 - Edition

Parents consult to pick school

BYLINE: KATE WILCOCK<br/>wilcockk@qst.newsltd.com.au

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 321  words


A MAJOR survey of more than 2000 Queensland parents has found they're more
likely to take note of what other people say than be influenced by websites such
as My School when deciding where their children will be educated.

Four schools in Logan were among 84 schools that took part in the What Parents
Want: Independent Schools Queensland Survey. The results, released last week,
revealed only 8.2 per cent of parents who had recently started their child at an
independent school listed the My School website among the three sources of
information most likely to influence them when choosing a school.

By comparison, friends and colleagues (74 per cent), other parents with children
at the school (67.1 per cent) and school open days (48.3 per cent) were listed
as the three most influential sources of information for parents who had
recently started their child at an independent school.

Independent Schools Queensland executive director David Robertson said parents
at Groves Christian College, Livingstone Christian College, Bethania Lutheran
Primary School and Calvary Christian College were involved in the survey.

``School choice is one of the most important decisions any parent will make in
respect of their children. It is therefore important to understand the factors
that influence this choice and which sources of information parents find most
valuable,'' Mr Robertson said.

``Preparing students for life, good discipline and encouraging a responsible
attitude to school work were the most influential factors for parents when
choosing an independent school for their children.''

MOST INFLUENTIAL

SNAPSHOT

2010 What Parents Want survey

1. Friends and colleagues

2. Other parents with children at the school

3. School open day

4. Internet

5. Family member(s) already at school

6. Pamphlets/brochures/prospectuses

7. Church

8. MySchool website

9. Independent Schools Queensland

10. School/Kindy child was attending (talking to teachers)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ALW


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                            January 12, 2016 Tuesday

Illinois brain drain;
Many teens consider out-of-state college options

BYLINE: Megan Crain Voice intern

SECTION: IL FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 728 words


In a few months, Samantha Macke will be living 900 miles away from Springfield,
but she's not nervous.

Samantha, who is currently a senior at Springfield High School, will be a
freshman at the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, this fall.

"I'm super excited to experience a new place and learn in such a different
environment," Samantha said in an email interview. "I'm not a person who gets
very homesick, so I'm really excited to be moving away."

Many local students like Samantha plan to go to out of state colleges or
universities. Illinois teens have many different reasons for choosing an out of
state school: some want a greater sense of freedom. Some want academic programs
that simply aren't offered in Illinois. And it can be cheaper to go to an out of
state school.

According to Forbes.com, the average price of Illinois in-state tuition Illinois
for public colleges and universities is $13,189. This is the fifth highest
average cost in the nation, only topped by New Hampshire, Vermont, Pennsylvania
and New Jersey.

The national average for the 2015-16 school year, according to the College
Board, is $9410.

For universities in Illinois, the price of tuition ranges from about $10,000 at
Governor's State University to $20,000 for certain programs (like engineering)
at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, according to the College
Illinois website.

While the national average cost of out-of-state tuition is about $23,000, many
schools are offering very competitive scholarships to lure students away from
their home state.

Samantha received a full tuition scholarship from the University of Alabama.
Josh Mathiot, who is also a senior at Springfield, said that he was offered a
scholarship that will cover a large portion of his tuition at the University of
Kentucky.

There's also the Midwest Student Exchange Program (MSEP), which can help
eligible students get in-state tuition at schools involved in the program. Nine
states, including Illinois, Missouri and Iowa, are members.

Students interested in getting a MSEP discount need to have a 3.25 GPA, an ACT
score of 24 or above and need to remain in good academic standing with the
school they go to.

There are a lot of factors to consider when choosing a college including size,
distance and the educational programs they have. For some students, the schools
in Illinois just don't provide the opportunities they want.

Michelle Hedlund is a senior at Pleasant Plains High School who will be
attending Washington University in St. Louis next year. Michelle plans to go
into biomedical engineering, and didn't seriously consider attending any schools
in Illinois simply because they don't offer the same opportunities that WashU
does.

She also said that, with the grant she received from WashU, her tuition is less
than in state tuition at some Illinois schools.

Samantha plans to major in criminal justice with a minor in cyber crime, and
said that UA has a great criminal justice program.

"Many of the professors have won awards for their work and have actual field
experience," she said, "which excites me and makes me want to learn from them
even more."

Clare Lansden, a senior at Sacred Heart-Griffin High School, is "95 percent
positive" she will be attending DePauw University in Greencastle, Indiana, next
fall. Clare applied to a school in Chicago, but decided that DePauw was the
perfect fit for her.

"DePauw has a great English program, a great study abroad program, which I'm
very interested in," Clare said. "It's a very liberal arts school, and
everything I've been looking for."

The three-hour distance between Springfield and Greencastle is perfect for her,
she said. It's far enough away for her to be independent, but close enough that
she can be home quickly if she needs to be.

Josh, the senior at Springfield, said that he's always wanted to go out of state
and the University of Kentucky was a good fit for him. There he will study
biology/pre dentistry.

"I was looking to go to a big school," Josh said in an email interview, "but
also a school with a good program for what I want to do."

He also said that the tuition rates for the out of state schools he looked at
were comparable to schools he looked at in Illinois.

Students have many different reasons for going out of state, but they are all
looking for a good education, new opportunities and experiences.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                           February 12, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

How a successor will be chosen

BYLINE: ALEX SPILLIUS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 313 words


THE arcane process of choosing a successor to Pope Benedict XVI will quickly
follow his official departure and the world will soon find itself focusing on
the chimney of the Sistine Chapel.

The College of Cardinals, which currently has 117 members, will convene within
the walls of the Vatican Chapel for a centuries-old ritual known as a conclave.

They will be alone except for servants, emergency medical staff and, on one
previous occasion, an Italian journalist disguised as a servant attempting to
leak news to the world.

The cardinals eat, vote and sleep within sealed areas until they have selected a
new Pope. No contact is allowed with the outside world. The threat of
excommunication hangs over anyone tempted to break the vow of silence.

Any baptised Roman Catholic male is eligible for election, but since 1378 only
cardinals have been selected. The process can take days. A handful of candidates
will preach at Mass to the college. A lengthy debate is likely in choosing Pope
Benedict''s successor, given the surprise of his resignation.

Two ballots are held each morning and two each afternoon for up to three days
until a two-thirds majority is reached.

The cardinals write their choice on a ballot paper and place it in an urn. The
votes are added up by scrutineers, and, if there are no irregularities, the
result is recorded and the ballot papers burned.

If the colour of the smoke billowing from the chapel''s stovepipe is white, then
a new Pope has been chosen. If it is dark, then there has to be another vote.
Previously, damp straw was used to darken the smoke. Since 1963, a liquid dye
has been used.

The conclave has been the procedure for choosing the Pope since 1417, and is the
oldest ongoing method for choosing the leader of any major institution. There
has been no significant challenge to a decision by the conclave. (© Daily
Telegraph, London) ALEX SPILLIUS

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2013 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Grayson Journal-Enquirer (Kentucky)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          February 26, 2014 Wednesday

New state report measures Carter County income, employment, education

BYLINE: Joe Lewis, Journal-Times, Carter County, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 352 words


Feb. 26--A recently released profile by the Kentucky Center of Education and
Workforce Statistics reveals new data concerning income, employment and
education in Carter County.

The report outlines that the average annual household income in the county is
$35,415 which falls well below the state average of $42,610 and the national
average of $53,046.

Additionally, more than 20 percent of county residents are living below the
poverty line, which is higher than both state (18.6 percent) and national (14.9
percent) figures.

The report outlines that employment in the county is primarily found within four
major industries: utilities, government and education, manufacturing and health
care.

This means that the majority of Carter County residents are employed by city and
county government, the school system, hospital clinics, manufacturing plants and
utility companies -- both city-owned and private.

The county's unemployment rate is 11.1 percent or three percent higher than both
the state and national averages.

The report also gives educational statistics among adults in the county.

According to the figures, slightly more than 25 percent of Carter County
residents do not possess a high school diploma or equivalent certificate.

That figure eclipses state figures (17.6 percent) and (14.3 percent) of U.S.
residents who haven't graduated from high school.

Of the students who are high school graduates, more than 56 percent of them are
attending college.

Nearly 40 percent of those attending college are choosing Ashland Community and
Technical College for their post-secondary studies, while 32.5 percent are
enrolling at Morehead State University.

Only four percent of high school graduates in Carter County are choosing
Kentucky Christian University for their college studies.

For more information or to view a copy of the Carter County profile, visit
http://kcews.ky.gov.

Joe Lewis can be reached at jlewis@journal-times.com or by telephone at
286-4201.

___ (c)2014 the Journal-Times, Carter County, Ky. Visit the Journal-Times,
Carter County, Ky. at www.journal-times.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20140226-GZ-New-state-report-measures-Carter-County-income-employment-education-
0226-20140226

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GZ


                    Copyright 2014 Grayson Journal-Enquirer

                              412 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bakersfield Californian

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday

College grads seeking jobs: Tough times ahead?

BYLINE: Katie Steiner, The Bakersfield Californian

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 520 words


Jun. 6--Graduating from college is supposed to be one of the most exciting times
for a person.

But for this year's graduating class, the future is a little more daunting.

And with Cal State Bakersfield's graduation coming up in a week, students are
starting to feel the pressure.

Less than 20 percent of 2009 graduates had found a job by springtime, according
to the National Association of Colleges and Employers.

But that's nothing new: On average, it takes graduates six to nine months to
find a job, said Jane Evarian, director of Career Development at Cal State
Bakersfield.

"They shouldn't expect they're going to land their first job after graduation,"
she said.

That has especially been true for this year's graduates.

"Unfortunately, the job search has not been particularly fruitful," said Curtis
Cargill, who is graduating June 13 with a bachelor's degree in art. "With the
economy the way it is, finding a good job is pretty far-fetched."

It'll be even tougher for students who just send out resumes and wait for a
response. Evarian said the traditional means of applying for jobs only has a 5
percent success rate.

The key to landing jobs this year will be networking, she said.

That's what Cargill is hoping to do through his internship with CSUB's Career
Development Center.

"I hope that this internship will either develop into a job opportunity or at
least help me build a network of professional contacts," he said.

Besides his internship, Cargill will also keep his part-time job busing at a
local restaurant.

More students are choosing to stick with their college jobs after graduation,
Evarian said, "anything to pay their bills while looking for a job."

Some graduates are choosing to opt out of the job search by going to graduate
school.

Soon-to-be Cal State Bakersfield graduate Nancy Solis has always planned on
getting her master's in business administration. But she admits that "it is kind
of a safe plan."

Solis has a summer internship with Chevron. She said she is worried about what
she'll do once that ends.

And while it may seem like doom and gloom for graduates, there are some success
stories. Tina Hildreth just landed a job as a credit manager for Wells Fargo.

Hildreth, who found her job through Cal State Bakersfield's career fair, said
she was "extremely happy" to get her job, especially after she sent applications
for numerous jobs and internships.

But for the ones not as lucky as Hildreth, they're keeping their options open.
Solis said she and her friends are looking out for each other, letting each
other know about possible positions.

But so far, not much has come up.

"It's exciting that now it's the real world," Solis said, "but the real job is
what we're lacking."

To see more of The Bakersfield Californian, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.bakersfield.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Bakersfield Californian
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090606-BK-COLLEGE-GRADUATES-JOBS-20090606

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BK


                   Copyright 2009 The Bakersfield Californian

                              413 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                      October 19, 1999, Tuesday, Edition 1

INTERACTIVE SHOW LOOKS AT POST-SECONDARY CHOICES

BYLINE: Kristin Rushowy

SECTION: LIFE

LENGTH: 312 words




EDUCATION REPORTER

Choosing a college or university is one of the most important decisions high
school students will ever make, so they'd better do their homework.

That's the thinking behind a new Web site to be launched this Saturday in
conjunction with a live, interactive, two-hour broadcast on TVO.

The Web site, www.uchoose.tvo.org, will be full of information about colleges
and universities.

It will have printable checklists with questions to ask about choosing a program
and the appropriate college or university admission requirements, finances,
housing and student services. There's also a place to work out a budget.

Questions range from the basic (How much do courses cost? Are you eligible for
awards/bursaries?) to the kinds of things than can be overlooked in the rush to
decide (Does the school have clubs or organizations that meet your particular
interests? Would you be happy living in the community for three to four years?
Is there a good public transit system?).

Producer Linda Masci says TVO wanted to provide students with ''non-biased,
concrete information'' after looking around and realizing there was a gap.

''Even after we're off the air, students can use the Web site,'' she says.

''It is a real resource tool, the best way to let them know what they need to
know to make their choice.''

The Web site, produced with NODE Learning Technologies Network, will have links
to university and college web sites as well as the Ontario Student Assistance
Program (OSAP).

Six university students, all of them summer interns at TVO, had direct input
into the production of Saturday's broadcast, making sure it covers the kinds of
things they wish they'd known when choosing a school, Masci says.

Get With The Program airs from 3 to 5 p.m. Saturday and will be repeated at the
same time on Sunday.


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.

                              414 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Post-Bulletin (Rochester, Minnesota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             October 5, 2015 Monday

For mothers choosing home births, its about comfort

BYLINE: Paul John Scott, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn.

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 782 words


Oct. 05--Last spring, England's highest authority for national medical policy
declared home births to be safer than hospital births for mothers with low-risk
pregnancies who are about to deliver a second or later child.

The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists believes childbirth is
safest in hospitals and birth centers (small, midwife-led facilities). But the
surprising thing about the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence
(NICE) statement was its reflection of the fact that hospitals protect but also
pose their own risks.

For Jana Justus, 30, an OR nurse and mother in Rochester, these risks became
apparent as soon as she began thinking about childbirth.

"With my first pregnancy, I read a lot of books and sort of self-educated myself
on pregnancy," she said. "There's always exceptions and it's great to have
doctors, medicine and surgery for complex pregnancies and emergency situations.
But unfortunately it's become routine to interfere with the labor and delivery
process through interventions like induction with ptosin, continuous electronic
fetal monitoring, frequent cervical checks, epidurals, directed pushing and
ultimately C-sections."

"There's a term that they use for this," she said. "It's called 'the cascade of
intervention.' You use one of these interventions and it often leads to another
one and another one. And each one has risks for both the mother and the baby."

Holistic approach

When Justus became pregnant with her first child, she realized that her values
and beliefs "aligned more with the midwife model of care." She liked that it was
"a more holistic approach of caring for the mother -- not just physically but
emotionally, spiritually and socially. It is a model of care in which pregnancy
and birth are viewed as normal physiological functions that generally don't
require medical intervention to have healthy outcomes."

But that child, now a lively 2-year-old named Stella, came early, so she was
born in the hospital."It wasn't the best experience," remembers Justus. "I
didn't feel like the staff was super respectful. I didn't think I was treated
the best there, so I wanted something different for my next pregnancy."

After searching for midwives in Rochester, she found a provider from Decorah,
Iowa, named Brenda Burke. Justus visited with her doctor for an ultrasound at 20
weeks, but otherwise spent the time leading up to the second child birth living
life as usual. When she went into labor last April 19, the only people at her
home were her midwife, her husband, her mother and her daughter.

"She was born in the bedroom, on the floor," said Justus of the arrival of her
daughter Quinn after 12 hours of labor. "It was really peaceful. I had Pandora
playing Jackson Browne. Everyone was so supportive. I was able to eat and drink
and have nourishment, there were no complications. If at any point the midwife
said we should go in to Mayo, I would have gone right in."

'Everything in its own time'

Instead of blood pressure checks and bright lights, "everything was less rushed
afterwards," Justus said. "They didn't rush in and cut the cord -- my husband
eventually did that -- or take and weigh the baby. I just held the baby in my
bed. Everything happened in its own time, I didn't even leave the house with the
baby for the first two weeks."

Following the 8 p.m. delivery, the midwife was on her way home at midnight.

"Birthing has been happening since the beginning of humans," said her husband
Martin, 30. "The fact that it should be forced into a hospital is silly to me."
Ever a husband, however, he had prepared the room. "There was some tarping and
sheeting in case there was a mess."

Two-year-old Stella heard it all -- and proved increasingly curious as the
arrival of the baby approached and her mother grew more distressed. "The last
four or five minutes was tough," Martin said, holding the 5-month-old in the
room where she entered the world. "She got loud," he said, looking at Jana, "and
Stella was was checking in the door to see, does Mommy look OK?"

It was only afterward, as Jana learned that her Mayo insurance would not cover
the $2,000 midwife fee, despite the procedure having saved the policy thousands
of dollars, that Jana learned there was no one she could talk to about the
policy, only an appeal. She formed a local Facebook group, the Rochester, MN
area Home Birth Network, for mothers who hope to have a child at home. It has 37
members.

Will she try home birth again?

"Oh yeah," she said. "We will do a couple more at home."

Martin agreed.

"I come from a big Irish family."

___ (c)2015 the Post-Bulletin Visit the Post-Bulletin at www.postbulletin.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20151005-RC-For-mothers-choosing
-home-births-its-about-comfort-1005-20151005

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RC


                          Copyright 2015 Post-Bulletin

                              415 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                   E1 Edition

Best to study for a career that's in demand

SECTION: WORKPLACE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 663 words


When choosing a course of study, focus on ones that meet industry needs and are
relevant to the times in which we live and work, says Kerry Damons of Boston
City Campus & Business College.

The college is an award-winning private higher education institution that has
been delivering quality education for more than 25 years at its 40-plus support
centres throughout South Africa.

"Seeing that the economy is still in the midst of one of its most challenging
periods, you need to choose a course that gives you the skills the economy needs
at the moment," says Damons. "This will put you in a better position to becoming
employed."

How do you find out which courses and qualifications meet the country's needs?

Start by reading as many job adverts as possible, because such adverts show what
employers want and need.

"This is such an important aspect to consider in choosing the most appropriate
career, that Boston has now included careers and skills that are in demand in
our new prospectus, " says Damons.

Also, job adverts show not only qualifications, but also the work experience and
personality traits employers desire in candidates.

"Nowadays when companies recruit new people, they look at the CVs of people who
have the skills to help them operate at a profit," Damons says.

"They also look for personal qualities like persistence, high work ethic,
innovative mind and willingness to go the extra mile - these are qualities that
help â[#x20ac]¨companies thrive even in the worst of times."

Visit the websites of the Department of Labour as well as the websites of the
various sector education and training authorities (setas) and read their
sector-â[#x20ac]¨skills plans.

To compile these, the setas interview employers across the board, so they give a
good indication of what the economy needs and what companies are looking for.

Another important thing to remember is to check that the right government and
industry body accredits the course you're interested in. Have a look at details
like accreditation and National Qualifications Framework levels to make sure you
are making a good choice.

"It's imperative to check the credentials of the colleges and varsities that
offer the courses that you're interested in," says Damons.

"Go visit campuses personally so you can see if the facilities, equipment and
course material being used are up to date and relevant to the workplace.

"Finding a job will be difficult after graduating if your study skills aren't in
demand or you learn to use equipment that is too outdated and not relevant to
the workplace anymore."

Damons explains that education is not static. For that reason,â[#x20ac]¨Boston
City Campus & Business College keeps in contact with various industries, updates
course material and introduces new courses regularly.

"We listen to what employers tell us, as well as our students, and continuously
update existing courses such as IT, as well as â[#x20ac]¨creating content and
course structure for new qualifications, diplomas and degrees," says Damons.

The Boston prospectus explains learning programme categories. If you find it
difficult to narrow down your choices to a single one, go â[#x20ac]¨see a career
adviser who can help you choose a valuable, accredited study option.

"Boston City Campus & Business College offers more than 80 dynamic study options
at our campuses nationwide, so we understand that prospective students need a
helping hand in choosing the course that fits them perfectly," adds Damons.

"We offer a career advice service free of change as part of our corporate social
investment and invite you to enquire about tertiary studies, as applications for
2017 are still open."

A wide range of study opportunities are available at Boston City Campus &
Business College, and you can select from a degree, various diploma and higher
certificates, or short learning programmes in IT, management, HR, accounting,
marketing and more.

For more information, contact Boston at 011â[#x20ac]...551â[#x20ac]...2000,
email info@boston.co.za, visitwww.boston.co.za, or Facebook.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                            August 12, 2010 Thursday
                                Nuneaton Edition

CONSIDER YOUR OPTIONS;
ADVERTISEMENT FEATURE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 640 words


THERE have been a lot of changes to the education system recently, with
excellent opportunities now available to help you get the future you want. To
help you decide which of the options best suits you, the government has produced
a booklet called It's Your Choice. You have probably seen a copy at school but
you can also find it online at www.connexions-direct. com/itsyourchoice. It's
Your Choice puts YOU at the centre of the decision-making process and provides a
step-bystep approach. It leads you throughtheprocessofconsidering all your
options and then making an informed choice about what you want and what best
suits you as an individual. You can find indepth information about all the
different ways you can train or learn after leaving Year 11. You can also answer
some questions that will help to give you a clearer idea of what to do next.
Everyone in Year 11 is going to be choosing their own route, and there is plenty
of information and advice available to help you to make the right choices for
you.

CHOOSING THE RIGHT PLACE TO STUDY

If you are struggling with choosing a course or university, bear in mind that
you will be studying for two, three or four years, so you need to be sure you
are going to the right place for you. If you are a disabled student, you may
also need to check up on how easy it is to get around the campus buildings and
grounds. What you can do: Find out what the entry requirements are for the
course. Think about which subjects really motivate and interest you. Do some
research and find out what reputation the course and university have,
particularly with employers. Try to find out what learning approaches are used.
What is the balance between lectures and seminars; theoretical and practical
work and group and independent study. Find out how flexible the course is. Know
what facilities are offered by the college or university, including special
needs if necessary. Think about where it is situated. Will it meet your other
preferences - geographically, socially, people and entertainment wise? See if
they have an open day that you could attend. Speak to people who are already
studying at the places that you are looking at and ask them what it's like
there.

SPECIAL NEEDS OPPORTUNITIES

If you are a disabled young person and decide to go on to further education,
colleges must now provide details of what is available, and who you should
contact for further information. You may wish to attend a specialist college
which will already have a lot of experience in teaching students with a
particular special need or disability. Before you sign up for a further
education college course they should draw up a 'learning agreement' setting out
what they expect you to do and how they are going to help you on your course.
What you can do: Check out whether you can claim benefits. If you don't you
could lose out on a lot of money. Check with your local Jobcentre Plus office.
You can also contact the benefit inquiry line on 0800 882200 or text telephone
0800 243355. If you are thinking about going to college or sixth form ask your
teacher to arrange a meeting with the disabled students tutor at the college and
students who are already there. When you do visit don't be embarrassed about
asking staff and students as many questions as you can. If you are applying to a
further education college or university you should apply several months before
you are going to leave school. Your teacher or Connexions personal adviser can
help with filling in forms. Write down how your disability affects you and what
support you need, including things like notetaking, BSL signing or wheelchair
access. If you decide to stay on at school the conditions of your Special
Education Needs Statement will remain the same. If you decide to go to college
there will be a wider range of courses open to you.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  Public Opinion (Chambersburg, Pennsylvania)

                          September 21, 2011 Wednesday

Seminar in Chambersburg hopes to guide top students to pick top colleges

BYLINE: By BRIAN HALL Staff writer

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 425 words


CHAMBERSBURG -- The first Franklin County College Seminar is aimed at
encouraging the area's brightest young students not to settle when making a
college selection.

Open to all "ambitious" high school students, the first seminar is geared toward
the top 10 percent of students from ninth to 12th grades in all county school
districts.

The seminar will be from 5 to 8 p.m. Sept. 29 at Chambersburg Area Senior High
School.

CASHS college adviser Unique Patterson and CASHS gifted support teacher Beth
Moore are putting together the event.

"Beth Moore, the gifted support adviser, sees a lot of students are basically
undermatching themselves with the schools they're choosing to apply to,"
Patterson said. "I even see it with kids who have great SAT scores or grades and
are applying to area colleges. They have the potential to go to these more
competitive schools, which gives them access to better facilities, research
data, campus life and sometimes financial aid. We're trying to get our top
students to apply to more rigorous schools and stop undermatching."

Christian Brady -- dean of the Penn State Schreyer Honors College -- is the
keynote speaker.

Students can attend two breakout sessions, which include admissions, choosing a
major, application components, finding your fit, interviewing skills, writing an
application or scholarship essay, building a resumé and SAT-related
preparations.

"A lot of our students start planning too late," Patterson said. "It's never too
early to start planning.

"Financial aid is another big emphasis. Students who are familiar with the
financial aid process have the ability to fly through the process in December
and January. It gives families a chance to start saving if they haven't already.
It's never too early for a student to find out what their GPA needs to be for
certain colleges or programs, and shoot for A's and B's in their classes. For
example, if they're planning on going into the health care field, they'll know
they need to take certain science courses at school."

Breakout sessions for parents include financial aid and supporting the college
application and admission process.

Online registration deadline is Tuesday. On the CASHS Web home page, students
can click on the departments link on the left side, click on the gifted seminar
link and then click on the college seminar link to register. Students can also
call Patterson (709-4034) or e-mail her at patteuni@chambersburg.k12.pa.us for a
registration link.

------------

Brian Hall can be reached at 262-4811 and bkhall@publicopinionnews.com .

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Public Opinion
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                Hull Daily Mail

                            October 27, 2017 Friday

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 332  words


You may have already decided where you want to study, but not yet had a chance
to think about what courses.

Choosing your course is just as important as choosing where you will be
studying.

To help you, we have these five top tips to making your A level choices.

1Choose your favourite school subject

You'll be studying the subject for the next two years, so choosing something you
already know you enjoy will mean you will enjoy studying it in ever-greater
depth.

Furthermore, the more you want to study a subject because you enjoy it, the
chances are you will get a better grade and put the effort in you need to
succeed.

2Don't just pick what your friends pick

It is tempting to choose what your friends will be studying, but even if you do,
that does not automatically mean you'll be put in the same classes together.

You need to choose what's best for you, no one else. And you'll soon make new
friends, if that's what you are worrying about.

3Plan for your degree  Even if you're not sure what you want to do after
college, if you have any idea at all what you might want to do after you leave,
then check the requirements of that job or degree course.

If you do want to go to university, study A levels that will give you the
greatest chance of getting an offer.

Don't forget, Russell Group uni-  versities will be more  impressed with
traditional subjects, such as physics or English literature.

4Your A Levels don't have to be similar

Don't be afraid to mix and match your subjects.  Just because you want to take
biology, does not mean you should take chemistry, too.

It can make it easier if your subjects are similar, but that doesn't mean you
have to do it.

Keep your options open and do what you enjoy.

5Speak to people  If you think you've settled on a subject, don't be afraid to
speak to some of the students currently studying it.

Head to open days and speak to course leaders, too.

Don't forget your teachers can be a font of knowledge on all things education,
so don't be afraid to use them.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TOP-CLASS: Wilberforce Sixth Form College student Emily Stonham with
her A level results.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Nuneaton News

                            April 16, 2015 Thursday

Question time for politician at town college

BYLINE: Laura Bennett

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 617  words


THE MAN who wants to become the nation's next Chancellor of the Exchequer has
been grilled by college students.

Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls visited the Nuneaton campus of North Warwickshire and
Hinckley College to take a look at the engineering facilities and to answers
learners' questions about the party's plans for further education

Among the topics included the amount of higher level apprenticeships, the
disengagement of young people with politics and access to education for all.

Speaking about his visit, Mr Balls told the News: "There were a really wide
range question of questions but I think that any time you get in front of a
group of  young people who are studying journalism you know you are going to get
tough questions. They asked good questions and I think meeting young people and
getting them engaged with politics and seeing that this election choice is going
to make a difference is a challenge.

"Over the last few years young people have really bared the brunt of  the times,
with youth unemployment, the rise in tuition fees and  the fallen
apprenticeships. It is young people that have really had a hard time. And we as
a part are saying that people deserve a better deal for the future.

"I want to be in a position where, after a Labour government, Vicky can say
there is no long term unemployment in Nuneaton."

Students had the chance to take part in a question and answer session where they
could ask specific questions to Mr Ball and Labour Parliamentary candidate for
Nuneaton Vicky Fowler.

After the visit engineering apprentice  for Rolls Royce Lewis Phipps, who
studies at the college as part of his work, said: "I thought it was good to find
out Labour's view on apprenticeships,  it is quite a good route for a career. It
seems to be coming back into fashion recently and its good that they agree with
that and want to invest in people's future."

Journalism student Adam also posed a question to the politician about his
college research into young voters.

Talking about Mr Ball's response, he said: "I think Ed Balls'  answers to our
questions started off quite defensive but I think that's because my question
asked him about Labour's general policy I caught him off-guard a bit."

Fellow journalism student Sophie added: "I generally agree with what he said
because I think it would benefit me. I think you do need experience because no
one is going to take you on unless you get some experience at our age.

"When choosing what I wanted to do my thoughts were do I go to university for
three years and I might not get a job at the end of it or do I get an
apprenticeship and learn on the job and  then stay there? But at the moment
there isn't that many apprenticeships available, if there was more it would be a
good option."

Labour Parliamentary candidate for Nuneaton, Vicky Fowler also spoke to students
about their experiences.

After the visit she said: "What we need  to do right from the start is get young
people engaged in choosing whether to do apprenticeships or if they are choosing
to go to university, then they are planning their futures and that's what we
want.

"It's a big feat for people turning 16 to think 'what am I going to do with my
life' so we want to bring back careers advisers into schools and colleges so
that young people can get expert advice.

"We want to completely transform the opportunities open to people in Nuneaton."

Vicky Fowler is standing for the Labour Party in the  General Election on
Thursday, May 7. The Nuneaton seat is also being contested by Conservative
candidate Marcus Jones, Green Party candidate Keith Kondakor, Alwyn Waine for
UKIP, Paul Reilly for Trade Unionist Socialist Coalition and Steve Paxton for
the English Democrats.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SPECIAL VISIT... Labour Parliamentary candidate for Nuneaton Vicky
Fowler with Labour Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls. NNWG160415NWHC14
SMILE... Vicky Fowler and Ed Balls join students for a group photo.
NNWG160415NWHC12
QUESTION TIME... North Warwickshire and Hinckley College students had the chance
to grill the guests on Labour's views on education. NNWG160415NWHC08
MEETING STUDENTS... journalism, engineering and tourism student had the chance
to ask questions that mattered to them. NNWG160415NWHC07
SPECIALIST TRAINING... engineering apprentices Lewis Phipps and Marcus Holt show
the visitors some of the equipment on offer to students at the college.
NNWG160415NWHC05
GETTING A CLOSER LOOK... Labour Parliamentary candidate for Nuneaton Vicky
Fowler and Labour Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls takes a closer look at a 3D
printer. NNWG160415 NWHC02

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Duncan Banner (Oklahoma)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 8, 2008 Wednesday

Choosing president won't be easy

BYLINE: Steve Fair, The Duncan Banner, Okla.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 864 words


Oct. 8--Four weeks from now, it will be over. The 2008 General Election will be
in the past. We will have elected a new president or perhaps not. According to
several political pundits, a tie in the Electoral College could result this
year. The country is pretty evenly divided.

On "Fox News" Sunday, Karl Rove said, "Thirty-nine state polls released in the
first three days of October have given Barack Obama his first lead over the
magic number of 270 since mid-July.

"Minnesota and New Hampshire both moved from toss-up to Obama, giving him 273
electoral votes to McCain's 163, with two votes remaining as a toss-up."

Rove went on to say, "This race is susceptible to rapid changes, so no definite
prediction is possible."

In a very possible scenario, John McCain could win Virginia, New Hampshire,
Florida and Ohio, but lose Pennsylvania, Colorado, New Mexico and Iowa to Obama.
That would give each candidate 269 electoral votes. What happens then?

Under the U.S. Constitution, the House of Representatives would then decide the
election when it meets in January, with each state getting one vote  -- no
matter its size  -- to break the tie.

Democrats have the majority of representatives in 27 states; Republicans, 21,
and two states are equal. Most likely, if the electoral vote were tied, Obama
would become president, but that's not a certainty.

Obama and McCain could lobby the Electoral College voters to switch their
support. Twenty-four states have laws that bind their electors to the results of
the general election, but 26 do not.

That means an elector could switch  -- it's happened before, but never when it
affected the outcome of an election.

The U.S. Senate picks the vice president if there is a tie.

It's possible the House could pick McCain and the Senate Biden.

If the House has not made up its mind by Jan. 20, when President Bush leaves
office, the vice president selected by the Senate could serve as president until
the House decides who the president is. In a very scary scenario, House Speaker
Nancy Peolsi could become "acting" president if neither chamber decides before
Jan. 20, but she would have to resign as speaker.

The last time the U.S. House decided a presidential election was in 1824 when
John Quincy Adams was named the president. His opponent who would later become
president  -- Andrew Jackson  -- had gotten 10 percent more of the popular vote
than Adams, but did not get a majority of the electoral vote because there were
four candidates in the race.

When the race was thrown in the House of Representatives, 13 sided with Adams
and only seven with Jackson. One of the four candidates was Henry Clay, the
sitting speaker of the House. Only the top three candidates in the electoral
vote are to be considered by the House, and Clay had finished fourth.

Clay detested Andrew Jackson and had said of him, "I cannot believe that killing
2,500 Englishmen at New Orleans qualifies him for the various difficult and
complicated duties of president."

Clay was also an ally of Adams, so he threw his support to him. For his loyalty,
he was named secretary of state. All of the presidents prior to 1828 had been
secretary of state, so Jackson claimed the two had made a "corrupt bargain."

Jackson claimed being the SOS would give Clay a leg up in the 1828 election. Old
Hickory was elected in 1828 using the strategy that Clay had made a "corrupt
bargain."

Fast forward 184 years and we could have a similar situation. It's not likely
the 2008 election will result in a tie, but it could happen.

The country is evenly divided. Obama and Pelosi could arrange another "corrupt
bargain."

The next four weeks will be very interesting. If Obama is able to keep his
supporters energized and the "perceived" terrible state of the economy in the
news, he will likely be president.

If calm is restored and people make their decision based on the facts and vote
for the candidate who is the most qualified, John McCain will be elected. Rest
assured the difference in leadership and vision between these two candidates is
dramatically different.

Not since Nixon and McGovern have we had such a dramatic difference in political
philosophy between two presidential candidates.

In years past, there was a TV show called "Kung Fu" about a Shaolin priest named
Chang Caine who was living in the Old West. When Caine had to make an important
decision, he would flashback to his training as a young child with his mentors
Po and Kan. Po, who affectionately called Caine "Grasshopper," would often tell
him  -- "Choose wisely, Grasshopper." Americans would be well advised to take
Po's advice on Nov. 4.

Steve Fair is chairman of the Stephens County Republican Party. He can be
reached by phone at 580-252-6284 or by e-mail at okgop@aol.com His blog is
stevefair.blogspot.com.

To see more of The Duncan Banner, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.duncanbanner.com. Copyright (c) 2008, The Duncan Banner, Okla.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20081008-DJ-Choosing-president-won-t-be-easy-1008

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DJ


                                 Copyright 2008

                              421 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education
                               www.chronicle.com

                          September 9, 2015  Wednesday

Bystander Intervention: Not Just for Sexual Assault

BYLINE: Katherine Mangan

SECTION: STUDENTS; Administration

LENGTH: 725  words

DATELINE: Austin, Tex.

ABSTRACT

The University of Texas asks students to step in on other scenarios, like
suicide threats, binge drinking, and academic dishonesty. Other universities are
following suit.

FULL TEXT

Bystander intervention is a hot topic at campus orientation sessions this fall
as colleges struggle to come up with new ways to prevent sexual assaults. But
the University of Texas system is taking that idea much further by urging
students to step in to try to stave off suicide, binge drinking, hazing, hate
speech, and even offensive language and academic dishonesty.

Texas regents allocated $1.4 million last year to support the three-year
bystander-intervention initiative across the system's eight academic campuses.
Each campus is developing its own targeted interventions, which it will share
with the others.

All define bystander intervention as "recognizing a potentially harmful
situation or interaction and choosing to respond in a way that could positively
influence the outcome." All prescribe the same three steps: Recognize the harm,
choose to respond, and take action.

"We want to change the culture to one where we look out for each other and don't
stand by watching things happen," says Chris Brownson, associate vice president
for student affairs at the system's flagship campus, in Austin.

"This is an umbrella initiative to infuse all of our programs with one common
language and one common set of action steps," says Mr. Brownson, who is leading
the project for the system.

The flagship campus's program, BeVocal, distributes its messages through social
media, posters, student plays, and presentations. Laminated flip cards in campus
centers give step-by-step guidelines on how to recognize and respond to a
variety of troubling scenarios, from a student who's passed out, drunk, to one
who's making a joke about rape.

Training bystanders to step in has been the focus of recent violence-prevention
efforts on campuses nationwide, including the University of New Hampshire, the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and Carnegie Mellon University,
where students can play an interactive game presented in the form of a graphic
novel.

The student-run Green Team at Dartmouth College is taking on excessive drinking
and sexual assault by watching out for students at fraternity parties.

Such programs have enjoyed renewed attention since the White House's It's On Us
effort put the spotlight on them.

Few programs tackle as many issues as Texas is taking on. One that takes a
similar, sweeping approach is Indiana University at Bloomington's Culture of
Care, a student-led, staff-supported initiative that encourages students to
watch out for one another, whether the problem is sexual misconduct, drug abuse,
or depression.

Freshman and Greek-life orientations at the University of Texas at Tyler
included scenarios in which actors exhibited a number of troubling behaviors
that could easily be overlooked in the chaotic and stressful first semester away
from home.

Using the three-step approach of recognizing the harm, choosing to respond, and
taking action, the students discussed how they might step in.

"It could be something like they stopped going to class or stopped interacting
with other people and didn't want to come out of their room," says Kim
Harvey-Livingston, director of student services. "They might be sleeping all the
time or not sleeping."

If someone says, "I don't want to be here anymore. I'm done," that could mean
anything from the person is homesick to sick of his class or contemplating
suicide, she says.

Confronted with such a statement, a roommate might mention that a lot of people
who are sad or depressed have thoughts of hurting themselves and ask whether he
had ever thought about that.

He could then hand the student the numbers for campus counseling services.

Actions might be direct, like asking a potentially suicidal person if she's
considering hurting herself, or indirect, like calling the campus police or a
crisis-response team.

"Whether it's about violence or depression or suicide or alcohol," Ms.
Harvey-Livingston says, "this is about recognizing that there's a problem and
choosing to act."

Katherine Mangan writes about community colleges, completion efforts, and job
training, as well as other topics in daily news. Follow her on Twitter
@KatherineMangan, or email her at katherine.mangan@chronicle.com

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The U. of Texas system has introduced a program to encourage students
to speak up when they see objectionable situations of any kind. "We want to
change the culture to one where we look out for each other and don't stand by
watching things happen," says Chris Brownson, an Austin administrator who is
leading the systemwide effort.
Marsha Miller, U. of Texas
Bystander Intervention: Not Just for Sexual Assault 1

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2015 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                           February 12, 2009 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

WISDOM WITH AWARDS;
Anderson adds perspective;

BYLINE: Dave Trimmer Staff writer

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 659 words


Every year about this time the results of choosing the best area high school
athletes, coaches and teams from the previous calendar year are announced -
choices that are always extremely difficult to make.

And every year one or more former high school standout imparts a few words of
wisdom that explained how they continued their athletic careers at a higher
level.

The 31st annual Inland Northwest Sports Award luncheon at the Spokane Convention
Center was no exception - on either count.

Among 10 state championship teams from North Idaho and Eastern Washington, North
Central's 3A boys cross country team was recognized after parlaying its state
title into a national title and Lewis and Clark's unbeaten girls basketball team
was picked after its third straight state crown.

Of the 10 coaches of championship teams, sportswriters and broadcasters honored
NC's Jon Knight and LC's Jim Redmon for those successes.

Two athletes who are contributing to their collegiate teams as freshman, Ferris
basketball player DeAngelo Casto (Washington State) and Shadle Park softball
player Samantha Skillingstad (Oregon) were singled out from the 20 finalists.

And the comments from Whitworth football player Adam Anderson offered a
perspective that is sometimes lost in the quest for a full-ride college
scholarship.

"Please realize that college is a once-in-a-lifetime experience," the former
Riverside star said. "It's not all about getting a full ride. It's about
choosing the college that best fits you, whatever level that is. Athletics is a
very important part of that experience. ? What is also important is to find a
place where you can have both athletic and academic success; a place where you
can grow as a person; a place where you can develop lifelong friendships.

"That place may be Division I, II, III, NAIA or junior college. It's a different
answer for all of us. Find the place that is the right fit for you."

Anderson started his career at Idaho but after a high turnover in coaches, he
decided to transfer closer to home, which meant he had to pay his way because
D-III does not offer athletic scholarships.

"I gave up a full ride to play at Whitworth," he said. "Call me crazy, but I
think it was the best decision I've made in my life. At Whitworth I'm getting
the football and academic experience that is right for me. Most importantly, it
feels like home."

As past speakers have done, Anderson encouraged athletes to give coaches the
respect they deserve but threw in a twist by adding: "Coaches, if I could say
one thing to you, the most important thing is to show respect for your players.
When you do that, we want to work hard for you. That's where team success
begins.

"Also, be more than just a coach to your athletes. Be a friend to them when they
need it. Let them know that they can come to you for anything. You might be
their only escape during a really difficult time in their lives."

Two special awards were presented. Lewis and Clark's Whitney Hebner was honored
as Student Athletic Trainer of the Year. Shadle distance star Andrea Nelson
received the Sportsmanship of the Year award.

Nelson received recognition in Sports Illustrated's year-end issue for her
actions at the State 4A track meet in May. She was runner-up in the 3,200 meters
but was awarded first place when Nicole Cochrane of Bellarmine Prep was
disqualified.

After Nelson left the awards stand, she gave her medal to Cochrane.

"I feel a lot better. That's the way it should be," Nelson said at the time.
"I'm glad I got the opportunity to make things right. I feel proud to take
second."

Following Nelson's lead, the other seven placers passed their medals down.
Several weeks after state, Cochrane, a victim of mistaken identity with a
teammate, was declared the winner.

"I still just feel like I was doing the right thing," Nelson said Wednesday.
"Getting all this recognition, I don't know if I deserve it, because I was just
trying to do the right thing."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Spokane Spokesman-Review

                              423 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          December 10, 2014 Wednesday

Transfer Students Home

LENGTH: 543  words

DATELINE: Chadron


Chadron State College has issued the following news release:

Chadron State College welcomes your interest in considering the transfer
opportunities available at CSC. We are interested in expanding our offerings for
transfer students and look forward to assisting you with your college transfer
decisions.
Transfer Undergraduate Students, First Time On-Campus

If you have attempted 12 or more credit hours of course work at other colleges
or universities after graduating from high school, you will be considered as a
transfer student for admission to Chadron State College. To apply for admission
to Chadron State College, please follow these steps:

Complete and submit an Online Admissions Application. If you have any questions
or need any assistance please call 1-800-CHADRON and ask for Admissions.
    Forward final, official transcripts from all colleges and universities
previously attended. These documents must be sent directly from the institutions
to the Chadron State College Admissions Office.
    Official, high school transcripts are necessary unless one or more of the
following requirements have been met:
        At least 60 credit hours of college coursework has been achieved,
        An Associate of Art, Science, or Applied Science degree has been
attained,
        After earning a high school diploma, at least six college credits have
been completed prior to July 2012.

All students wishing to pursue a degree program are required to provide one
official transcript from each college attended, even if no credit was earned at
the institution--by the end of their first term of enrollment. Students may not
omit any part of their previous college records, whether part-time or full-time,
with or without degree objectives, whether or not credit has been granted, or
whether or not they desire to transfer credit. Chadron State reserves the right
to use the National Student Clearinghouse and/or the National Student Loan Data
System to verify students have accurately disclosed their academic history.
Failure to disclose a complete collegiate record may result in denial of
admission and/or federal financial aid or dismissal from Chadron State College.
Mail Correspondence To:

Chadron State College
Admissions Office
1000 Main Street
Chadron, NE 69337
Other Information:

Distance Learner requirements and application
    Graduate requirements and application
    International requirements and application

Go to the Transfer Guides
From Our Students

"The entire Chadron State College staff and my professors made the transferring
process run smoothly. By transferring to Chadron State, I feel that I have not
missed a beat in continuing my college education. The atmosphere and
friendliness of the students, faculty, staff, and community has ensured me that
I have made the right decision in choosing Chadron State College."

"Choosing CSC is absolutely one of the best decisions I have made regarding my
education. I transferred from a community college in another state and I was
worried my credits wouldn't be accepted. Everything went through with relative
ease and I will be finishing sooner than had I stayed in my home state."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                               December 19, 1999

Flamingo more than a teaching institution

BYLINE: By R.V. Veera

SECTION: Quest for knowledge; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 555 words


STUDENTS seeking tertiary education can find lots of information in course
brochures - the right college and programme. And useful information about
the location and the community in which the college operates.

Choosing a college is like choosing friends. People who share your
goals, dreams, the same values and wanting the same things in life. When
you find the right college, it helps to lay the foundation for the rest of
your life.

At Flamingo Institute of Further Education, students can experience a
learning and growing environment to ensure that when they complete the
programme, they are equipped with skills and relevant knowledge to meet
the demands at the workplace.

Flamingo thrives on the challenge to provide an education which is more
enriching and more empowering for its students.

It is located within a resort hotel about 10 minutes drive from Kuala
Lumpur City Centre.

The institute is supported by a devoted team of academic staff and well-
equipped with teaching and training facilities including fully air-
conditioned lecture rooms, well-stocked library, computer laboratories
with Pentium PCs and Internet access, indoor and outdoor recreational
facilities such as jogging tracks, tennis courts, bowling alley and
gymnasium, and industrial-size production and preparation training
kitchen, a mock-up front office reception counter with Hotline Information
System, a student-run cafe for food and beverage training and a guest room
for housekeeping training.

Flamingo offers courses in Hotel & Catering Management or Culinary Arts,
Tourism Management, Computer Studies and Business Management (Business or
Marketing).

Courses are designed to give exposure to the theoretical, practical and
management aspects of the hospitality industry.

Students will acquire practical skills in food and beverage service,
housekeeping and front office during their course of study at Flamingo.

Emphasis on the knowledge and skills in management as outlined in the
Advanced Diploma in Hospitality Management helps students to pursue
managerial roles for future career advancement.

The Advanced Diploma in Tourism Management at Flamingo Institute will
also assist students in their pursuit for career development
opportunities.

Those who are intererested in culinary arts can learn various cooking
methods by enrolling in the Flamingo Certificate or Diploma in Culinary
Arts.

Students are not only equipped with the practical skills, they are also
prepared to sit for external examinations which lead to external
qualifications from professional bodies abroad such as the National
Restaurant Association (USA) and the City & Guilds of London Institute
(UK).

Besides the Business major offered under the School of Business
Management, students who have an interest in learning how to develop and
manage marketing strategies can pursue the Marketing course which leads to
an external award from the Institute of Commercial Management, UK, upon
successful completion of the course and external examinations.

Opportunities to work as a team to organise, manage and carry out dining
function allow student to acquire invaluable hands-on experience.

For more information on the courses offered at Flamingo Institute,
contact 03-4576808 or fax: 03-4576806.


LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 1999 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad

                              425 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                           October 24, 2012 Wednesday

Fair selection will no longer be an issue

BYLINE: Fadhli Ishak

SECTION: Pg. 46

LENGTH: 325 words


THE Higher Education Ministry hopes the launch of the Malaysian Institutions of
Higher Learning Games (SUKIPT) will put to rest any issues concerning fair
selection of athletes to represent the country at events such as the Asean
University Games (AUG), World University Games (WUG) and World University
Championships (WUC) in the future.

SUKIPT chief executive officer Dr Saharudin Ismail said the inaugural Games,
which will be held at various venues in the Klang Valley from Oct 28 to Nov 11,
will finally give a chance for athletes from the various types of higher
learning institutions in the country to compete against each other in a major
championship.

"Prior to this, public, private, polytechnics and also community colleges had
competed in separate platforms in line with what their respective sports
councils had organised," said Dr Saharudin, who is also the secretary of the
Higher Education Ministry Sports Division.

"As a result, some quarters felt that the selection of national athletes was
more biased towards choosing public university athletes that had competed under
the Malaysian Universities Sports Council (Masum) championships.

"As the Laos AUG and WUG in Russia are just around the corner, we will be using
SUKIPT as the main selection ground for both events this time.

"We hope this will make things fair for all parties and as far as we are
concerned, we will be adopting a 'best man wins' approach in choosing who gets
the call."

The Games, which is being held on a scale never seen before at the university
level, is expected to see more than 10,000 university athletes from 101 higher
education institutions compete for honours in 15 different sports.

A total of 165 gold, 165 silver and 208 bronze medals will be up for grabs at
the event.

The sports are athletics, archery, badminton, beach and indoor volleyball,
bowling, chess, karate, netball, swimming, shooting, sepak takraw, taekwondo,
tennis, rugby and petanque.

( END )

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2012 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 30, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Acceptance' takes on dual meaning for college hopefuls

BYLINE: Erin Thompson

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 562 words


High school guidance counselors often labor without much public recognition,
their work mostly appreciated by the students and parents they steer through the
college admissions process. But that changes now with a book out this month
focusing on the work of Gwyeth "Smitty" Smith, a guidance counselor in Long
Island, N.Y.

In Acceptance: A Legendary Guidance Counselor Helps Seven Kids Find the Right
Colleges -- and Find Themselves, Newsday higher education reporter David L.
Marcus follows Smith as he deals with seven students at his Oyster Bay High
School. Smith's work is grounded in the notion that college admission isn't just
a game to win but a way for students to discover who they are and what they
might want from life. Smith talked with USA TODAY's Erin Thompson about his
approach.

Q: What is unique about your guidance technique?

A: I think that I reach out and look beyond the obvious and try to involve
myself rather intimately into a youngster's life. The example in the book of
Riana, who was really struggling with an academic load, a job and
extracurriculars -- I felt that I had to get in the middle and make it more
manageable for her so she could maintain the job and address the educational
issues that were to have a great bearing on her life.

Q: What are some tips that you offer potential college students?

A: To be reflective. Not to try to be someone that they're not. To really begin
to think in terms of who they are and how they want to come across. Let it be
their voice, not someone else's voice. I think there is a tendency for people to
want to tell stories (in their college essays). I think it's important to show,
don't tell. I think that it leads to some self-discovery that is really helpful
to youngsters.

Q: Explain how choosing a college can be a step to self-discovery.

A: I think that as youngsters go through this when selecting a college, they
begin to really look at things more slowly. They have a chance to digest what
college is about and look at what the college (they are looking at) is really
about. Many college campuses become living laboratories where we bring college
students together to try to figure out how they're going to live. I think it's a
very exciting time for kids.

Q: Why is it important to start looking for colleges early?

A: I think in today's world, college is a huge investment both financially and
emotionally. I think the whole college process has taken on a life of its own,
and it is helpful for students to get a look at different settings. ... It's a
process that takes some time, and it's one where there is an awful lot of
self-discovery.

Q: What is the most important factor in choosing a college?

A: I ask youngsters to look to the kind of environment that they're looking to
go to. Don't go to a college based on major, but based on the environment. Most
youngsters change their major at least three times. I look at settings. I want
to talk to families in terms of distance away from home. I think there are some
youngsters who may function in a very large university center, while others may
be overwhelmed by that. They should explore who they are.

One of the questions that I ask parents is "are there going to be financial
concerns?" because I want those things to be addressed earlier rather than
later. I don't want someone going to a school that they can't afford and then
have to transfer.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Cameroon Tribune (Yaoundé)

                                August 11, 2015

'Many People Don't Know What They Want to Become in Life' [interview]

BYLINE: Kimeng Hilton Ndukong

LENGTH: 1166 words


Dr. Njungwa Zinkeng Martina K., Head of Department of Guidance Counseling,
Higher Technical Teachers' Training College, HTTTC, Kumba, University of Buea,
talks on the challenges by young school leavers in choosing careers.

How prepared are young school leavers for higher education in terms of choice of
career?

The preparedness of young school leavers for higher education in terms of career
choice depends on the different series or options they took and studied in high
school. The Cameroon educational system has well-defined options for Science and
Arts students. The responsibility of guidance counselors in schools is to help
students with career choices. But unfortunately, all schools do not have
counselors, and even where they are present, they are under-utilised by school
authorities.

Some of the students are prepared and know what they want to do after high
school, while others are still thinking of what they will do. It is therefore
the responsibility of university counselors to carry on with the responsibility
of helping them to choose careers. Though some students know what they want to
do, our society does not offer them the opportunity to fulfill their dream
careers. Let's take for example a student who passes the General Certificate of
Education Advanced Level with very excellent grades in the sciences and wants to
become a medical doctor. The child writes the national entrance examination into
medical schools in Cameroon and fails. Do we say that the child did not choose
the right career?

I encourage parents to make use of university counselors during pre-registration
counseling before their children select their courses. Our higher education
system has become more open with the advent of many private institutions.
Parents should be ready to spend a little more than the FCFA 50,000 in public
universities so that their children can study what they actually like and not
what is available.

The tendency these days is to go for professional schools whose graduates have
some chance of being recruited into the Civil Service. What impact does such a
decision have on the eventual careers of these people?

Making a good career choice is actually a lot more than choosing a job. It is
about choosing something that will provide you with the lifestyle you seek.
However, people often try to get something doing that will put food on the
table. And so the question of job satisfaction becomes a problem. After career
choice, there is also career development. Some of these children actually get
into the right careers, but there is always need to grow and acquire new
knowledge and skills. Those who feel that they are in the wrong profession may
eventually get to the right ones as they evolve in life.

But the decision to go into a professional school is evidence of the fact that
the person has at least some interest in that profession. The government has
done a lot to open many professional schools with very interesting options. For
example, the Higher Technical Teachers' Training College, Kumba, has 14
departments, all offering professional courses. But the unfortunate thing is
that we find it difficult enrolling students for some of these courses. In fact,
many young people don't even know who they are, let alone what they want to
become! Our educational system has to rethink a more inclusive curriculum for an
emergent nation by 2035.

With so many private and public tertiary and higher institutions advertising
their courses and facilities, does it not make the choice of career more
difficult for these young school leavers?

No, it does not. Instead, I think it has created an opportunity for students to
study what they want and not what is available as is the case in most of the
State Universities. For example, a student comes to the university and wants to
read journalism. The university says the cut-off mark is 9 GCE A Level points,
so they can only go in for Sociology and Anthropology because they have only 6
points. The student goes to a private university and is accepted to study
journalism with those same points. At the end, the student has enrolled to study
for the career they want and not what is available. I think that private higher
education has made career choice more liberal and we thank the government for
opening up the sector. But my watchword is that students should get appropriate
information on these institutions because some are fake and illegal. It is
therefore advisable for prospective university students to meet counselors and
also check out information on private institutes of higher education. Those that
have been accredited by the Ministry of Higher Education have to be mentored by
State universities.

What does it take to choose the right career?

It entails having self-awareness, opportunity awareness, making the decision and
taking action. Self-awareness involves looking at your skills, values, interests
and personality, while opportunity awareness has to do with gathering
information on the opportunities open to you. School guidance counselors are
expected to help students with this. In making a decision, students have to
discuss with other people such as counselors, friends, family members, teachers,
etc, who all have an important role to play. On the other hand, taking action
entails finding out about employers that offer the jobs you are interested in.
This is then followed by searching for vacancies, preparing applications and
attending interviews or writing the recruitment examinations.

Instead of trying to narrow down your options, it can be helpful to keep open as
many options as possible within your chosen trade, profession, or field of
expertise. That way, you gain maneuverability and flexibility as you and the job
change. Even if you are well into your chosen course, training, internship, or
induction for your career, and find that you are always relying on your less
strong attributes, it pays to stop and reassess the worth of continuing on this
course. A life time spent working in an area where you don't rely on your
strengths most of the time will cause much stress and disharmony and can prevent
growth and enjoyment of career.

There is no better way to know whether or not the career is for you than to just
pitch in and get your hands dirty. It's much more likely to happen if you take
on such roles without payment. If you can handle the work thrown to you and
still want more, you're likely to be a winner. Moreover, the network contacts
built up during volunteer experiences are priceless. Listen to advice but make
your own decision ultimately. Parents, teachers, friends, careers counselors -
all of them tend to mean well, but they're not you. It's you who have to feel
comfortable with the cloak you wear, the boots you strap on, and the daily
routine that you adapt to. Nobody else can truly know what works for you. Also,
don't be put off by stories from people who have nothing to do with your career,
but have much hearsay to feed you with - both good and bad.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Sunday Territorian (Australia)

                              July 22, 2012 Sunday
                                  1 - Edition

Rise in risky home births Mums dispensing with medicos, midwives

BYLINE: By LAUREN NOVAK

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 261  words


PREGNANT women are increasingly choosing to go through childbirth at home
without professional help rather than risk a ``horrible'' experience in a
hospital.

The Australian College of Midwives says hundreds of Australian women are opting
for an unassisted or ``freebirth'', without even a midwife present, and that the
trend is rising.

A recent University of NSW report, published in the journal Midwifery, found
most women choosing freebirth wanted to avoid repetition of a ``traumatic'' or
``horrible'' experience in hospital.

Those mothers said a hospital birth meant a lack of privacy, bright lights,
strong smells, loud noises, feeling cold, being interrupted or separated from
their baby.

All amounted to ``interfering in the normal labour, birth and bonding process''.

The latest Pregnancy Outcome in SA report shows more South Australian mothers
are choosing homebirths.

There were 144 in SA in 2010, 138 planned and six unplanned, up from 134 in
2009, including nine unplanned. There has been heated debate this year about the
safety of homebirthing, with former midwife Lisa Barrett at the centre of a
coronial inquest examining her involvement in three fatal homebirths since 2007.

Australian College of Midwives spokeswoman Hannah Dahlen said her research
showed women who chose freebirth or risky homebirths were ``incredibly
informed''.

But Australian Medical Association SA president Dr Peter Sharley warned that
freebirthing was a ``very dangerous'' choice for both mother and child.

``I find this sort of activity to be negligent to the baby,'' Dr Sharley said.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NTN


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                             June 29, 2013 Saturday

Accurate information our priority...

LENGTH: 1112 words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, June 29 -- The Education Consultancy Association Nepal ( ECAN ) is
organising the seventh iteration of its education fare where aspiring students
can seek career counselling and other information related to their further
studies. Manish Gautam of the Post talked to some of the consultancies involved
in the education fare regarding the courses on offer and the prospects of study
in foreign countries.

Ujjwal Siwakoti

NASA

Our NASA team has members with experience in consultancy for around a decade. At
present, we have shifted our focus to India. Of late, India, which was thought
as the last option for abroad studies, is now on the priority list of students.
Still, we cater this service to only around 25 to 30 percent of students as many
of them go directly to these institutions, especially people from the Tarai.
Besides India, we also specialise in countries like Australia, the UK and
Ireland. Students are counseled well in their field of interest and we help them
get into good universities along with decent scholarships for those deserve it.
We have also been hearing of many fraud cases in this field. There are
consultancies who are not affiliated to any of organisations, unlike us who are
under the ECAN umbrella. I request parents and guardians to be careful while
choosing consultancies. They cannot risk the future of their children.

Biraj Pandey

Education Park

Established in 2012, our organisation is relatively new. But we have experienced
members who have been in the field for over a decade. We have brought together
highly skilled professionals and graduates from Australia to assist students. We
also conduct regular test preparations for GRE/GMAT/SAT and provide the latest
reading material. We focus more on universities in Australia, the US and UK. We
are also a migration agency for Australia. Apart from helping students choosing
the best universities, we also help them once they are admitted. In the past
five years, Nepal has seen many returnees, which is a good sign for the
development of the country.

The government should bring forth a policy to attract these graduates and
provide them with job opportunities here.

Rajendra Rijal

Kathmandu Infosys Education Consultancy

Kathmandu Infosys was established in 2006. We think of ourselves as physicians
who look into patients and refer them accordingly to concerned specialists.
However, we also have our own team of specialists in the field. Our team has
international accreditation in this field. Before we start choosing colleges for
a student, we look into their background, profile and preferred area of study.
We help them with documentation, visa processes and college admission
procedures. We not only counsel students but also parents since they are the
ones investing a large sum for the future of their children. We always keep in
mind that students have to go abroad not to stay there but to gain skill,
knowledge and be a professional in their respective field. Like migrant workers
who send remittances back to the country, those who fly abroad for further
studies come back with skill and knowledge. We inspire our students to do the
same.

Pradeep Thakuri

Unicampus Education Network

We have been in the consultancy sector since 2001. We focus more in Australian
education and also represent three institutions there. We look more into
scholarship programmes provided by various universities, which scholarships
range from 20 to 25 percent. Students who have completed their Master's
programme in Nepal and want to go abroad for research programmes are also our
priority. These research students can apply for full scholarships. To those who
cannot secure scholarships, we provide them with a package course wherein
students can take classes for less money. Our team has international
accreditation and is certified in courses needed for international recognition.
Keeping in mind students from other parts of the country, we have offices in
Pokhara, Butwal, Dharan and Chitwan.

SK Nayak

Wide Range Consultancy

Our consultancy basically caters to students who are looking to study in India.
The majority of our team members are educated in India and hence, we can relate
to how the education system functions in India. We look into Indian government
institutions and consult students who have already been admitted to top
universities in India. We also have our own engineering and management college
and students who cannot get a placement in Indian colleges can study in our
college. Unlike other countries, a majority of the students are left in the
lurch in India. We have sent students to the National Institute of Technology
and the JNU Institute of Technology, among others. Deserving students can
obviously secure scholarships but everyone cannot. We request parents and
students to be careful while choosing colleges in India and be careful not to
fall prey to frauds.

Kumar Karki

Landmark Educational Consultancy

We motivate students to study abroad and come back instead of making them feel
like there are no opportunities here. Today's new generation is inquisitive to
learn and see other parts of the world. Students should not just rely on their
capabilities, money and motivation. They should do homework and prepare before
leaving the country. For this, they should consult career counseling. Students
should not go abroad on a whim. Instead, they should choose a country which is
appropriate for their studies. We are a purely academic consultancy with skilled
professionals. We also have international accreditations and professional course
certificates. We focus more on Australia. Many institutes offer scholarships on
a merit basis so we suggest good universities for students as per their academic
ability.

Dhurba Babu Joshi

International School of Management and Technology (ISMT) College

We teach abroad going courses inside the country. We have been teaching various
British undergraduate courses in Nepal itself. This is the main feature of our
college. We offer courses such as BBA, BHM, BSc IT and BTT among others.
Students can complete a three-year in Nepal itself. Or else, they can transfer
their credit hours to countries like Australia, the UK and the US. We teach
students as per the British education system. However, our fees are much lower
than in the UK. The same course would take around 5,000 pounds sterling there
while in Nepal, the same course can be completed for 1,000 pounds. At present,
two hundred students are studying in our institutions.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 21, 2017 Thursday

Engineering a Sustainable Future

LENGTH: 354  words



Harrisburg: Dickinson College has issued the following news release:
As a double major in environmental science and physics, Rachel Krewson '20 seeks
to put the two disciplines in conversation with each other to develop an e-bike
prototype for the campus community and to help community members discover ways
to measure and evaluate the health of their local waterways. Add this to an
internship in conservation, and she is on track to make an impact through
environmental engineering.


Majors:
Environmental science and physics (engineering track).
Clubs and organizations:
ALLARM, Kappa Alpha Theta and Eco-Reps.
Honors/scholarships/awards:
John Montgomery Scholarship, Alpha Lambda Delta, Landis-Mohler Prize in Physics.

On choosing my major:
I originally came into Dickinson with an interest in environmental engineering.
I declared my environmental science major my first year at Dickinson, and during
my sophomore year, I began to realize how much I also enjoy the applied
mathematics in my physics courses. I am currently a double major in
environmental science and physics.
On choosing Dickinson:
I was interested in small, liberal arts colleges, where I could develop
relationships with my professors and gain a well-rounded education. I value the
small classroom environment, where discussion and questions are encouraged. One
reason I decided to attend Dickinson is because of its emphasis on
sustainability. As an environmental science major, sustainability is at the
forefront of my everyday life, and I value Dickinson's commitment to decrease
its ecological footprint. Additionally, Dickinson offers many unique study
abroad experiences run through the college, which is different than most
unaffiliated programs offered at other schools.
Favorite place on campus:
Tome (is home, as the physics majors say) or Kaufman Hall.
Post-Dickinson plans:
After Dickinson, I plan on attending an environmental engineering graduate
program.
Most important thing I've learned so far:
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                               December 30, 2002

Connexions Offers Students A Helping Hand

SECTION: Features; General; Others; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 769 words


Making the right choice Young people have various options.  Not everyone wants
to go on to higher education on a full-time basis; some may prefer to enter the
labour market and find a job. If this is their choice, they need to find a job
that offers long-term training.  Advanced modern apprenticeships are available
in a range of occupations and may lead to a higher education qualification.

Going into work Before beginning the search for a job, young people need to make
sure their CV is up-to-date.  Connexions advisers can help with the presentation
of a CV, while also helping to prepare letters requesting work experience.
Checking the papers, surfing the internet and calling into Connexions centres
will all help to find out what jobs and work-based training are available.

Going onto higher education Each year around 20 per cent of students decide to
leave their higher education course early, usually in the first few months. One
of the most common reasons is a lack of research into the content or study
requirements of their course. Deciding what to study should be the first
priority, but they should also carefully consider how it is taught, how it is
assessed and how much independent study is required. The bottom line is: will
they enjoy the subject, as well as be able to manage the workload?  Choosing a
subject that is already familiar may be a safe option, as it is easier to assess
a young person's level of ability and interest in it.

A new non-vocational subject provides the opportunity to develop new areas of
academic skill and knowledge, and can sustain interest over several years.A
vocational course may be best if the young person has a well-developed career
plan that is best achieved through focused study of a related subject.

Where to study Choosing where to study is down to personal preference. There are
more than 150 universities and university colleges that offer higher education
courses exclusively. In addition, another 200 specialist and further education
colleges offer HNDs or degrees. Several factors that should be considered when
choosing a university: How near or how far from home will you be?  Would you
prefer a familiar place or somewhere very different?  How popular is the
university or college?  The more people who apply, the tougher it will be to get
in.

What about the cost of living, accommodation, transport and social life
expenses?  These can vary from place to place.

Can you study from home, either part-time or full-time, or with Open University.
Would this suit you better?  How to apply for higher education Traditionally,
the way to make an application via UCAS was by using a conventional paper
application form, but many schools and colleges now use the UCAS Electronic
Application System (EAS), or the on-line system called UCAS Apply.  A range of
excellent information and advice is available at www.ucas.com.

It is important to prepare thoroughly and leave plenty of time to complete the
application form carefully. Because many institutions do not routinely interview
applicants, your application form may be the only opportunity to impress!  When
to apply The earlier an application is made for any course the better,
particularly with the more popular ones. If the form is sent late (after the
closing date of January 15), options become severely restricted. If a young
person does not receive the offers they want, or declines offers, they can make
an additional application in the spring/summer through a new UCAS facility
called UCAS Extra, details of which will be sent automatically to those eligible
If they wish to defer entry in order to take a gap year, they can still apply
now, but should check with the individual institutions first to ensure they are
willing to give equal consideration for deferred entry. They should also be
clear about the reasons for a gap decision and how the experience will make the
application even stronger. Alternatively, young people can wait until the gap
year has started before applying, when exam results have been confirmed.

Connexions is here to help Whether young people want to go directly into the job
market, into training or into further or higher education, Connexions can help.

If you're aged between 13 and 19, you can talk in confidence to a Connexions
Personal Adviser for impartial advice.  You can contact an advisor, by calling
Freephone 0800 269 468, e-mailing ricky.gee@connexions-derbyshire.org or by
calling in to your local Connexions Centre.  Alternatively, visit the website at
www.connexions-derbyshire.org.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              432 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                             April 4, 2015 Saturday

Follow your heart while choosing a career;
Renowned career counsellor Pervin Malhotra guides city students about new age
opportunities

BYLINE: After Hrs Correspondent

LENGTH: 385  words


Renowned career counsellor Pervin Malhotra guides city students about new age
opportunities

These days, students have numerous career options, and as the number is
increasing, it is getting more and more difficult for the students to decide
which field to choose.

So the ARCH Academy of Design organised a session on new age career
opportunities on Friday, which was also the institute's 15th Foundation Year
celebration.

Archana Surana, founder & director of the institute, welcomed the guests and
thanked her team members for the support and unconditional love in this journey.

The institute had invited Pervin Malhotra, executive director of Career Guidance
India (CARING), to guide students about new age careers opportunities.

Malhotra talked to class X and XII students from various schools on how to
select a particular career, and what attributes a student should possess for the
same.

She also resolved the students' perennial dilemma of college over subject or
subject over college.

When should a student start thinking about choosing a career?

The right time is class X. It is the time when a student has to select a stream.
So, he must have a bigger idea of what he wishes to pursue ahead and then refine
his choices afterwards. He should assess what interests him, and towards what he
is inclined.

Why is it that students are confused these days when it comes to choosing the
right career?

See, confusion is obvious. Do you know, how many professions do we have now?
Around 3,500! As the number of career choices increases, the confusion also
increases and it gets hard to decide what your cup of tea is.

How to resolve such confusion?

Think and analyse what you love and enjoy, and do not get influenced by parents
and friends. Do what your heart feels is right for you. Do not get pressurised
by your parents. If you are interested in a less popular field, inform your
parents about the field, do research, talk to people who are already in the
field.

Why are fields like art and design suddenly getting so much popular among
students?

It's basically the stardom and attraction of the field which attracts students
these days.

But a student must know the profession in and out first and find out what all is
required for that field and then come to a conclusion.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   Mississippi Business Journal (Jackson, MS)

                           December 29, 2011 Thursday

Commentary: Choose to be aware of your options in 2011

BYLINE: Nancy Anderson

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 434  words


Sometimes we choose by not choosing.

Behavioral economists have long recognized our tendency to avoid making
decisions. The more difficult the decision, the more we avoid the question all
together. Thaler and Sunstein wrote a book called "Nudge. " In it, they cite all
kinds of instances of this tendency to avoid choosing.

Of course, the business world had this figured out a long time ago. Get someone
to set up a bank draft for their gym membership, and they'll keep paying long
after the last time they darkened the door. Set up automatic subscriptions on
magazines and newspapers, and humans will pay for unread material for years.
Give customers a free trial by getting them to commit to deferred enrollment.
The trial will pass, and no choice is made. Get your customers to set up
automatic deposits and bill paying on a bank account, and they'll never change
banks.

In the case of retirement, not choosing can have serious consequences. Academic
studies and observations have led to real policy changes in this area. The
changes did not take away our choices. They simply framed the situation so that
we made better "not choosing" choices. In 2006, the Pension Protection Act
allowed for more automatic enrollment in 401(k)s. For those employees who kept
meaning to sign up for their 401(k) but never got around to it, now they could
"not choose" and accumulate funds for retirement. The new law even allowed for
automatic increases in employee contributions with salary increases. You could
"not choose" your entire career and still have a nice nest egg.

Contributing to a 401(k) is only half the equation, though. Employees must
choose investment funds within the plan. Oy-Vey. More choices. The 2006 Act
allowed employers to make lifecycle funds the default choice. Now, instead of
all your contributions sitting in low paying money market funds, you could be
invested in an array of funds based on your age and retirement date.

Remember, choosing to NOT contribute or choosing a fund other than the default
is always an option. It's just that most people never get around to making those
active choices. They just let things rock along and avoid making the hard
decisions.

Add up all the costs you incur by "not choosing:" the gym, the subscriptions,
the bank fees, your retirement plan. Not choosing may be the easier path, but it
will cost you!

Nancy Lottridge Anderson, Ph.D., CFA, is president of New Perspectives Inc. in
Ridgeland -- (601) 991-3158. She is also an assistant professor of finance at
Mississippi College. Her e-mail address is nanderson@newper.com, and her website
is www.newper.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                             January 5, 2009 Monday
                                NATIONAL EDITION

Put New Recruits To The Test; Screening exams can minimize hiring blunders and
slash turnover costs

BYLINE: GARY M. STERN

SECTION: MANAGING FOR SUCCESS; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 1111 words


Remember the days in high school, when students had to take college entrance
exams to graduate and get into college? Now, many companies are following suit
by testing applicants to improve their hiring.

When Steven Hunt, an industrial psychologist and author of "Hiring Success,"
heard a talent recruiter ask an applicant, "If you were a pizza topping, what
topping would you be?," he knew why many companies were turning to
pre-employment tests. Hunt says these screening tests do an effective job of
choosing candidates with the right skills and personality compared with hiring
managers.

An American Management Association survey found that 44% of its members use
these tests to pick employees. Asked why so many companies employ them, Hunt
replied: "Why do so many companies not use them?" He says that many hiring
managers are "lousy about predicting the future performance of other people" and
often base their hiring decisions on whether the applicants are alumni of the
same school or look and act like them.

These screening tests reveal whether the person has, for example, both the Java
programming experience and the right temperament for the job. Pre-employment
tests don't do a perfect job of identifying the right candidate but "are better
than the alternatives," Hunt said. "They work because they collect information
from candidates and mathematically combine information on job success."

Testing Works

Many companies find that pre-employment screening eliminates candidates who
can't perform the job, cutting down on unnecessary interviewing. After choosing
candidates who meet the job criteria, most companies employ behavioral
interviewing, which elicits from candidates whether they've done the task before
and their problem-solving abilities.

Employment tests "can have a massive effect on the bottom line," Hunt said. They
help reduce turnover and curtail expensive recruiting costs triggered by
departures of staff that don't last long on he job.

Brinker International, the restaurant chain that owns Chili's, On the Border and
Romano's Macaroni Grill, has employed prescreening tests effectively to hire
service staff. The tests tell whether the employee is reliable, friendly and
customer-service-oriented, says Charles Handler, president of Rocket-Hire, a
consulting organization specializing in screening and assessment tools.

The way a question is worded can reveal a certain competency. The question "Do
you agree or disagree with the statement: "If you can't say nice things, you
shouldn't say anything at all'?" can reveal whether the applicant is going to
offend people or be sensitive to customers.

Most screening tests work for entry-level and service-oriented jobs, but not for
CEOs and senior-level positions. For a waiter, companies can test for three
specific attributes. But the role of CEO would require 20 complex
characteristics, which makes it much harder to pinpoint the criteria for
success, Handler says.

McMurry, a custom publishing, marketing and advertising company based in
Phoenix, tests applicants to identify specific skills, says Lee Vikre, its vice
president for "tremendous people." When McMurry is hiring a sales associate, she
says, its testing focuses on whether the person possesses influencing skills and
can handle rejection, two key criteria for successful sales personnel. The
screening also reveals interpersonal, problem-solving and time-management
skills.

McMurry works with Caliper, a vendor that produces an employee personality
assessment tool, to design specific tests for each job. The sales associate test
includes 235 multiple-choice questions, some of which are specially designed.

But Vikre adds that testing provides only one tool in McMurry's hiring toolbox,
which includes behavioral interviewing to determine if the candidate has the
right background. Five hiring team members interview each candidate, and editing
applicants also take simulated writing tests while designers are given visual
assignments. McMurry also updates its success criteria and testing since job
demands are always changing.

The goal, Vikre says, is to weed out the "lone wolves" who won't fit into
McMurry's collaborative environment. Vikre denies that the tests would eliminate
people like Steve Jobs, whose maverick thinking might not fit into any
pretesting categories. She says preselection also identifies innovative thinking
and adaptability to change, meaning Jobs wouldn't be screened out.

"When we ignored Caliper's recommendations that the person wasn't well-suited
for the job, we were almost always wrong. Rarely does someone work out if
Caliper says they won't," Vikre said.

Seek Cultural Fits

While the skills of a project manager are likely similar at Microsoft or Google,
each culture may choose someone with a different personality. One company seeks
a person who can build relationships and avoid conflict, while another prefers
someone who is aggressive and thick-skinned because the culture encourages open
disagreement. Prescreening tests can ask questions that reveal these
competencies, Hunt says.

"It is easy to create prescreening questions that hurt more than help in terms
of finding the best candidate," Hunt said. Even when companies work with
experienced test makers, some hiring managers don't know the right questions to
ask or can't identify the exact competencies required, which can skew and
distort the testing.

Many companies go wrong when they want the test developed the next day without
providing sufficient time and thought to devise the questions, Handler says. The
company must study the job, determine the qualities that make a person
successful and then create questions. Too many companies also fail to devise
follow-up metrics to measure the success of the testing, such as whether sales
associates hired increased revenue.

Of course, many companies eschew prescreening tests. When Libby Sartain was HR
director at Yahoo and Southwest Airlines, neither company employed prescreening
tests. "Yahoo was more concerned with the holistic approach vs. testing," she
said. Southwest used behavioral interviewing, not testing.

Companies must also be aware that these screening tests must follow certain
legal guidelines and can't nix someone because of psychological reasons, such as
having suffered from depression. As long as the test measures job-relatedness,
it follows legal guidelines, Handler says.

Prescreening tests help McMurry's bottom line because hiring the wrong person
wastes expensive recruiting costs and "takes a toll on the quality of work,
increases turnover costs and irritates clients. The couple of hundred dollars we
spend on assessments is well worth it," Vikre said.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Scunthorpe Telegraph

                               September 19, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Make sure you choose the right school for your child;
ADVERTISEMENT FEATURE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 420 words


CHOOSING the right school or college can be a difficult decision for parents
eager to ensure their children get the best possible education.

A school or college which will suit a young person's needs and help them develop
as an individual is crucial to giving them a good start in life.

Moving to a bigger school or taking that next step on to college can be a
challenging time.

But it can also be a time that can be problem-free, as long as the correct
choice is made.

This is the time of the year when schools begin their campaigns to attract
pupils for enrolment next year as youngsters move up into Year 7. So it is vital
that parents are aware of the choices available for September 2014 now.

Although an emphasis is still placed on the academic standards of teaching at a
school, there are lots of other factors to consider.

More than half of secondary schools in North Lincolnshire have now converted to
academy status.

This allows them greater freedoms to innovate and raise standards, which could
also be a factor when choosing a school.

Exam league tables and Ofsted reports can be used as a way of gauging how
successful a school is.

But to find out what a school is really like, it is advisable to go and have a
look around.

With this in mind, many schools and colleges across the region offer a number of
open days for prospective pupils and students.

Among them is John Leggott College in Scunthorpe, where officials are urging
pupils who have recently started year 11 at school to think about their options
for next year.

The college is among the partners for the Scunthorpe Telegraph's Your Life, Your
Future campaign, which aims to increase employment opportunities and aspirations
in the region.

A course guide has been published for those looking to enrol at the college in
2014.

And an open day for prospective students will be held on Wednesday, October 9,
from 5pm to 9pm.

Dana Walden, director of liaison and marketing at the college, said: "By
identifying a future goal, prospective students can focus on the pathway that
will make sure they develop the key skills needed to be successful in their
chosen career. "The pathways help students to create a unique package of courses
that will work well together and ensure the best possible chance of success.
"Our schools liaison guides are already in local schools to offer advice to
current year 11s.

"And the open evening is an opportunity for young people and their parents to
visit the college, see our fantastic facilities and talk to our teachers about
courses."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DECISIONS: Whether starting secondary school or leaving it for college,
making the right choice is important for your child

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCU


                      Copyright 2013 Scunthorpe Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 10, 2008 Friday

Finding The Right Major Without Stress

BYLINE: NewsUSA

SECTION: EMPLOYMENT

LENGTH: 349 words


The pressure to choose a career path can start as early as junior high, but
there's no reason to force the issue. College students routinely explore three
to four majors before graduating, and adults often switch careers.

Choosing a major doesn't lock you into one profession. Whether you don't know
your interests or feel like you enjoy too many activities to narrow down your
options, there's no reason to hyperventilate. Take a deep breath, then follow
these tips when choosing a major:

Know your options. A literature degree won't limit you to academia; in fact,
English majors learn skills that can be useful in a wide range of jobs, from
administrative work to teaching to technical editing.

Some online tools help students learn about the options available to them during
school and after graduation. One Web site, RoadMap4Life.com, questions users
about their interests, then matches any one of 2,300 possible careers to their
profile. Users can discover information about careers they hadn't even heard
about, but that would perfectly suit their interests.

RoadMap4Life allows users to download roadmaps, which offer a comprehensive
overview of different career options, including the recommended major and
educational path for students hoping to enter a particular field.

Explore. Believe it or not, taking an introductory course won't teach you
anything about career fields: A basic biology course, for example, won't give
you a taste of the math and chemistry involved in completing a biology major or
going to medical school. Join clubs, talk to professors and work internships to
get a better idea about the work involved in the majors that most interest you.

Know yourself. Maybe you love to write but need a regular sleep schedule. Or
maybe you love to work with people but want to live an affluent lifestyle. In
the first case, a journalism career and the deadlines that come with it might
become too stressful. In the second, a career in social work might pay too
poorly. So, talk to your career counselor about careers that match your
interests with the kind of lifestyle you can lead.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           September 6, 2008 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Advisors pair with graduates;
POSTGRADUATE STUDY

BYLINE: Joan-Maree Hargreaves..

SECTION: SUPPLEMENT; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 801 words


The process of choosing a program, deciding on a university and then choosing an
adviser aligned with your research area is an overwhelming prospect for many
postgraduate candidates. Academics, too, have choices to make when it comes to
agreeing to supervise candidates.

For students, deciding on an area of research can come about in a number of
ways. Associate Professor Mary Davey of the University of Technology, Sydney
says most students during their final years of undergraduate study find interest
in particular areas through contact with academics in lectures and classes.

This was the case with Catherine James, one of Davey's students who received
funding for a PhD scholarship from Australian Wool Innovation as part of their
strategy to find new ways to control parasites (which infect sheep and reduce
productivity).

Davey's research is in drug resistance in parasites at the Institute for the
Biotechnology of Infectious Diseases - so it was a natural pairing.

James says: "Mary was offering a project in the area of drug resistance and she
had extensive expertise in this area. Mary was very approachable and I took

the opportunity during honours to get to know her and her team

of researchers."

As far as the student/adviser relationship goes, Davey says, all students are
different and therefore have different requirements.

"Catherine is an intelligent capable person with strong views on her future. I
am able to support her career and, along the way we become colleagues, solving
important problems as part of a team. I would also add that on a
non-professional basis, we have become friends."

James agrees that the role of Davey as her adviser has progressed from
supervisor at the commencement of her degree to teammate. "As a supervisor Mary
has passed on her vast knowledge in the area of drug resistance. She has guided
my development to an independent researcher and is a true mentor."

It took Deborah Chen years of life and career experience before she found a
postgraduate course that sung the right tune for her. Now, with her master's
coursework as her foundation and the support of her adviser, she's on her way to
starting her own artist management company.

Chen has a degree in commerce law and a background in the music industry as a
singer songwriter and artist manager. She released a few albums independently
and toured in Asia and Australia. Her career has taken many twists and turns. At
the end of 2007, during her research to find an MBA course to help her with her
new role as a general manager of a small property development company, she came
across information about a master's of arts management.

"When I read through the syllabus and the format of this course I was
immediately sold as it married the two disciplines so well - management tools
from the MBA as well as the focal point around the arts and entertainment
industry.

She began her Masters in conjunction with the Sydney Opera House at the
Australian Institute of Music (AIM) earlier this year.

Midway through the course students of the program can choose between undertaking
a Research Thesis or, like Chen, undertake a New Venture Project.

Professor Bob Robertson teaches the New Venture Project subject at AIM and is
also Chen's supervisor. He also supervises all the other students undertaking
the project.

"They treat me much as a friendly banker, in other words, they have to make a
pitch to me that this great idea they've been working on is worth backing," he
says.

Robertson primarily assists with helping Chen to develop her business plan for
her chosen topic - to start an artist management company.

"As I have already begun operations with a new artist, the detailing of the
Business Plan is of timely application, helping me not only be more strategic,
more planned and purposeful, but it has also availed me of valuable contacts and
points of feedback and possible partnerships for the business," says Chen.

Both agree the supervisor's role on this type of project is critical.

"A student could waste a lot of time up blind alleys if they didn't have someone
to interact with and its can save lot of time to bounce ideas of someone," he
says.

"My role as Deborah's supervisor is to keep her on track and when she hits a
problem I can show her where to go."

Chen says the one-on-one interaction is necessary to gain an in-depth
understanding of her new business model approach.

"It really is the way of communication for postgraduate studies - and in
particular for ongoing business development - that is, meeting to share ideas
and receive feedback in a cafe over a great cup of coffee!" Chen says.

Healthy criticism is a substantial part of that feedback. "Part of my
requirement as a supervisor is to encourage in right direction. rather than
discourage of course," says Robertson, "and that's done by asking

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TWO PHOTOS: Deborah Chen and Professor Bob Robertson right: Catherine
James and Associate Professor Mary Davey

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2008 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             June 3, 2017 Saturday

Stevenson Signs Three Additions To Softball Program

LENGTH: 299  words

DATELINE: New York



Columbia: South Carolina State University has issued the following news release:

 South Carolina State head women's softball coach Cheretta Stevenson has
announced the signing of three players to National Letters of Intent (NLI).



 Joining the Lady Bulldogs this upcoming season will be utility player (2B/P/OF)
Kayla Phillips, (catcher/corners) Dezirae Rhodes and Shana Abram (first
base/outfielder/pitcher).

 Phillips an early signee last fall, played her prep career at Arabia Mt. HS in
Stockbridge, GA. An All-Region selection the last four years, she was named
Pitcher of the Year during her senior year.  During the senior game she was
named Most Valuable Player as well as earning 1st Team All-State honors.
Phillips received offers from Claflin, Miles, Winston-Salem State, Agnes Scott
before choosing South Carolina State.

 Rhodes a transfer from West Georgia Technical College, played her high school
career at South Cobb HS in Atlanta, GA. A four-year starter she pitched multiple
shutouts during her career, which earned her 1st Team All-Region and Most
Valuable Player accolades.

 Abram a native of Cedartown, GA, played her prep career at Rockmart High
School. A standout and four-year starter for the Lady Jackets, Abram earned
several top awards including the Golden Cleat Award (most stolen bases),
back-to-back All-Area and All-Region 2nd Team honors, two-time Offensive Player
of the Year and she was named Scholar Athlete of the Year for the second year in
a row. She received offers from Miles College and Huntingdon College before
choosing SC State.

 All this year's signees were members of the BrownsMill Lady Jackets Fastpitch
Softball team located in Georgia.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             August 23, 2010 Monday

Love, money and prospects top reasons for CAO choices

BYLINE: PAMELA NEWENHAM

SECTION: IRELAND; Other Stories; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 437 words


LOVE FOR a subject, job prospects and salary have topped the list of reasons
given by students for their CAO choices, with most choosing college courses that
involve the study of several subjects in an effort to broaden their career
opportunities.

Nathan Lynch (18), from Dublin, a student at Terenure College said he hoped to
study commerce and Spanish at University College Dublin. With fewer jobs now,  I
didn t want to just do business on its own, so I m opting to study it with
Spanish in an effort to broaden my options .

The student, who achieved 460 points in his Leaving Certificate, said he hoped,
by combining commerce with a language, he would be able to work abroad or work
with Spanish.

Mark McMahon, a student at St Mary s College in Rathmines, chose his course  as
it would provide a good background for joining the Army .

I hope to study logistics and supply-chain management at Dublin Institute of
Technology as I want to join the Army after college and those subjects are a key
factor in the Army .

For many students, subject interest and the experience of college were the main
factors influencing their course choices.

Mia Shirreffs (19) from Naas in Co Kildare said money or job prospects did not
influence her decision to list history at Trinity College Dublin as her first
CAO choice. The repeat student at Rathmines College said:  There s not many jobs
out there now but if you really love something, you should do it. I ve always
been interested in history and want to work in a museum and you can get good
money eventually if you keep at it.

Stephen Kerr may have got 600 points in his Leaving Certificate, but the student
of Templeogue College in south Dublin was more concerned about the release of
his upcoming single Sideline.

The Falling Famous band member, who has enough points to do any course in the
country, is choosing instead to follow his passions and has listed music and
maths at TCD as his first CAO preference.  In the long run, I m worried about
the future of the economy and job opportunities. I don t think there is any
money in music unless you re a rock star, but it s my passion,  he said.

JJ Walsh, principal of Greenhills College in Walkinstown said students were
looking to  get as well educated as possible in the belief that the best
qualified will be hired when the economy returns to growth .

Gráinne Milton, a repeat student at Rathmines College, said she was hoping to
study veterinary medicine because of her love for animals and the career
prospects.

UCD is the only university in the country that does the course, so hopefully
supply would be less than demand,  she said.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2010 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                            January 12, 2016 Tuesday

BYLINE: Megan Crain Voice intern

SECTION: IL FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 728 words


In a few months, Samantha Macke will be living 900 miles away from Springfield,
but she's not nervous.

Samantha, who is currently a senior at Springfield High School, will be a
freshman at the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, this fall.

"I'm super excited to experience a new place and learn in such a different
environment," Samantha said in an email interview. "I'm not a person who gets
very homesick, so I'm really excited to be moving away."

Many local students like Samantha plan to go to out of state colleges or
universities. Illinois teens have many different reasons for choosing an out of
state school: some want a greater sense of freedom. Some want academic programs
that simply aren't offered in Illinois. And it can be cheaper to go to an out of
state school.

According to Forbes.com, the average price of Illinois in-state tuition Illinois
for public colleges and universities is $13,189. This is the fifth highest
average cost in the nation, only topped by New Hampshire, Vermont, Pennsylvania
and New Jersey.

The national average for the 2015-16 school year, according to the College
Board, is $9410.

For universities in Illinois, the price of tuition ranges from about $10,000 at
Governor's State University to $20,000 for certain programs (like engineering)
at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, according to the College
Illinois website.

While the national average cost of out-of-state tuition is about $23,000, many
schools are offering very competitive scholarships to lure students away from
their home state.

Samantha received a full tuition scholarship from the University of Alabama.
Josh Mathiot, who is also a senior at Springfield, said that he was offered a
scholarship that will cover a large portion of his tuition at the University of
Kentucky.

There's also the Midwest Student Exchange Program (MSEP), which can help
eligible students get in-state tuition at schools involved in the program. Nine
states, including Illinois, Missouri and Iowa, are members.

Students interested in getting a MSEP discount need to have a 3.25 GPA, an ACT
score of 24 or above and need to remain in good academic standing with the
school they go to.

There are a lot of factors to consider when choosing a college including size,
distance and the educational programs they have. For some students, the schools
in Illinois just don't provide the opportunities they want.

Michelle Hedlund is a senior at Pleasant Plains High School who will be
attending Washington University in St. Louis next year. Michelle plans to go
into biomedical engineering, and didn't seriously consider attending any schools
in Illinois simply because they don't offer the same opportunities that WashU
does.

She also said that, with the grant she received from WashU, her tuition is less
than in state tuition at some Illinois schools.

Samantha plans to major in criminal justice with a minor in cyber crime, and
said that UA has a great criminal justice program.

"Many of the professors have won awards for their work and have actual field
experience," she said, "which excites me and makes me want to learn from them
even more."

Clare Lansden, a senior at Sacred Heart-Griffin High School, is "95 percent
positive" she will be attending DePauw University in Greencastle, Indiana, next
fall. Clare applied to a school in Chicago, but decided that DePauw was the
perfect fit for her.

"DePauw has a great English program, a great study abroad program, which I'm
very interested in," Clare said. "It's a very liberal arts school, and
everything I've been looking for."

The three-hour distance between Springfield and Greencastle is perfect for her,
she said. It's far enough away for her to be independent, but close enough that
she can be home quickly if she needs to be.

Josh, the senior at Springfield, said that he's always wanted to go out of state
and the University of Kentucky was a good fit for him. There he will study
biology/pre dentistry.

"I was looking to go to a big school," Josh said in an email interview, "but
also a school with a good program for what I want to do."

He also said that the tuition rates for the out of state schools he looked at
were comparable to schools he looked at in Illinois.

Students have many different reasons for going out of state, but they are all
looking for a good education, new opportunities and experiences.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             July 21, 2016 Thursday

College's bid to save more lambs to be put to test

BYLINE: Brian Henderson

LENGTH: 439  words


A new initiative aimed at improving lamb survival rates across sheep farms in
Scotland will see some of the most recent research findings tested in both the
field and the lambing shed.

Five focus farms covering the country's wide variety of sheep systems have been
selected for the "Live Lambs" project, which is aimed at reducing lamb mortality
in the early stages by at least 5 per cent.

The project, which is facilitated by Scotland's Rural College, will bring
together sheep farmers, advisers, researchers, and members of the supply chain
to tackle the causes of lamb loss and monitor on-farm performance with the aim
of achieving improvements in lamb survival.

The three-year project, funded through the Scottish Government's Rural
Development Programme, will also have the broader aim of providing information
for wider discussion and debate - and information on any new practices which are
shown to be effective will be made available to farmers across Scotland.

READ MORE:
{http://www.scotsman.com/business/companies/farming/let-s-promote-our-lamb-by-
choosing-it-for-dinner-1-4122678 | Let's promote our lamb by choosing it for
dinner | Let's promote our lamb by choosing it for dinner - The Scotsman}

"Through working with the focus farms, we can introduce tweaks in production
using modern research findings and innovative tools, this will have a lasting
benefit on the amount of live lambs reared and therefore profit," said SAC
Consulting's Kirsten Williams, who will be leading delivery of the project.

"The group will be encouraged to co-operate and share ideas, key messages and
findings from the group will be publicised to ensure other sheep farmers are
aware of the tools to increase lamb survival."

As well as the focus farms - which includes Saughland Farm, Pathhead, which is
managed by Peter Eccles - additional information will be collected from SRUC's
Kirkton and Auchtertyre Farms near Crianlarich.

The SRUC said that the farms had been chosen to be representative of the wide
range of sheep farming systems, covering location, flock size and terrain, with
hill and lowground units, indoor and outdoor lambing, set stocking and
rotational grazing and a broad mix of breeds ranging from Shetland Cross and
Blackface to Romneys and Scotch Mules.

"The focus farmers will undertake detailed monitoring of flock performance to
help identify areas for improvement and measure the effectiveness of advice from
the group. They will also gain skills in diagnosing some of the common causes of
lamb death," said Williams.

Key areas will include means of ensuring ewes are kept in the optimum condition
in the build up to tupping.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWTS


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             July 21, 2016 Thursday

College's bid to save more lambs to be put to test

BYLINE: Brian Henderson

LENGTH: 439  words


A new initiative aimed at improving lamb survival rates across sheep farms in
Scotland will see some of the most recent research findings tested in both the
field and the lambing shed.

Five focus farms covering the country's wide variety of sheep systems have been
selected for the "Live Lambs" project, which is aimed at reducing lamb mortality
in the early stages by at least 5 per cent.

The project, which is facilitated by Scotland's Rural College, will bring
together sheep farmers, advisers, researchers, and members of the supply chain
to tackle the causes of lamb loss and monitor on-farm performance with the aim
of achieving improvements in lamb survival.

The three-year project, funded through the Scottish Government's Rural
Development Programme, will also have the broader aim of providing information
for wider discussion and debate - and information on any new practices which are
shown to be effective will be made available to farmers across Scotland.

READ MORE:
{http://www.scotsman.com/business/companies/farming/let-s-promote-our-lamb-by-
choosing-it-for-dinner-1-4122678 | Let's promote our lamb by choosing it for
dinner | Let's promote our lamb by choosing it for dinner - The Scotsman}

"Through working with the focus farms, we can introduce tweaks in production
using modern research findings and innovative tools, this will have a lasting
benefit on the amount of live lambs reared and therefore profit," said SAC
Consulting's Kirsten Williams, who will be leading delivery of the project.

"The group will be encouraged to co-operate and share ideas, key messages and
findings from the group will be publicised to ensure other sheep farmers are
aware of the tools to increase lamb survival."

As well as the focus farms - which includes Saughland Farm, Pathhead, which is
managed by Peter Eccles - additional information will be collected from SRUC's
Kirkton and Auchtertyre Farms near Crianlarich.

The SRUC said that the farms had been chosen to be representative of the wide
range of sheep farming systems, covering location, flock size and terrain, with
hill and lowground units, indoor and outdoor lambing, set stocking and
rotational grazing and a broad mix of breeds ranging from Shetland Cross and
Blackface to Romneys and Scotch Mules.

"The focus farmers will undertake detailed monitoring of flock performance to
help identify areas for improvement and measure the effectiveness of advice from
the group. They will also gain skills in diagnosing some of the common causes of
lamb death," said Williams.

Key areas will include means of ensuring ewes are kept in the optimum condition
in the build up to tupping.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                            July 29, 2009 Wednesday

Youngsters 'taught to steal by parents';
Squirrels learn to steal from watching their parents do it, a new study has
found.

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 250 words


New evidence about the evolutionary survival skills of the rodents  has been
gathered by researchers at the University of Exeter, in a  study of the
psychology of grey squirrels when it comes to stealing  food.

Research has revealed that the creatures learn quickly by observing  others,
particularly when it comes to the crucial matter of  gathering nuts.

The scholars believe the findings are evidence of how quickly  animals adapt,
and say such abilities provide clues to their ability to  evolve.

The team has concluded the study suggests  squirrels are  primed to recognise
other squirrels as potential food thieves. It also  shows  they learn more
quickly from real life observations.

The research, published in the journal Animal Cognition, is the  first to test
the ability of grey squirrels to learn through watching  others.

The team tested the squirrels' ability to learn to choose between  two pots of
food after watching another squirrel remove a nut from  one of the pots. One
group was rewarded for choosing the same pot  as the previous squirrel, the
second group was rewarded for  targeting the other pot. Those that were rewarded
for choosing  food from the other pot learned more quickly than those that were
rewarded for choosing the same pot. The findings  suggest grey squirrels learn
more quickly to recognise the  absence of food.

Dr Lisa Leaver, of the university,  said: "Our study is significant because it
is the first to show that  grey squirrels learn from observing others."

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2009 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 997 DOCUMENTS


             Journal Record Legislative Report (Oklahoma City, OK)

                              June 20, 2008 Friday

Oklahoma State University Technical Branch-Okmulgee seeks to shake trade school
image

BYLINE: Heather Caliendo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 411  words


Oklahoma State University Technical Branch-Okmulgee has changed its name to OSU
Institute of Technology, hoping to attract more students to technical
disciplines.

A couple of years ago, the university launched a marketing study of what
prospective students want in a university. Students showed interest in hands-on
learning, paid internships and links to industries. The research firm found the
words "Institute of Technology" were tied to technician training that could lead
to high-paying careers, said Rex Daugherty, assistant vice president of
marketing.

"I think this will help clarify what we have to offer students who are making
career choices - that choosing a technical career is a good choice to make,"
Daugherty said. "It's raising the awareness of the status of the university -
that we are not a trade school. "

The university has no new programs to coincide with the name change. Industries
across Oklahoma and the region are having a difficult time finding skilled
technicians, university officials said. With the baby boomers retiring,
Daugherty said the need is even more critical.

"The industry is eager to find people to fill the slots," he said. "There are
just not enough young people choosing a career in technology, and yet these
careers make good salaries and offer long-term employment. "

Daugherty said the school doesn't know what the impact of the name change will
be; it's more about targeting particular groups. The college is not only
reaching out to high school students, but also incumbent and returning workers -
particularly those who have lost jobs because technology has advanced past their
skills.

Many of the current students come from rural areas. A few have come from
different parts of the country to pursue a watchmaking or automotive degree.
Daugherty said the name change is not meant to establish the college as
competition for other universities; it's meant to showcase the university's
specialization in producing skilled technicians.

Once the name was chosen, Okmulgee-area legislators introduced a bill to confirm
the change. Gov. Brad Henry signed the name-change law on May 12.

Daugherty said the name change not only benefits the university, but also
Okmulgee.

"It's revisiting awareness the status of the university is not a trade school
but an institute of technology," said Daugherty. "By evaluating the perception
of the status of the university - that has to reflect positively on the Okmulgee
community, as well. "

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     April 4, 2005 Monday ST. PAUL EDITION

BY THE NUMBERS: COLLEGE HOPES AND WORRIES

SECTION: DAILY LIFE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 146 words


64

PERCENTAGE OF COLLEGE-BOUND STUDENTS WHO REPORTED HIGH LEVELS OF STRESS ABOUT
THE COLLEGE-APPLICATION PROCESS

30

PERCENTAGE OF STUDENTS WHO SAID THEIR BIGGEST WORRY IS GETTING INTO THEIR
FIRST-CHOICE COLLEGE BUT BEING UNABLE TO AFFORD TO ATTEND

8

PERCENTAGE OF STUDENTS WHO SAID THE KEY FACTOR IN CHOOSING A COLLEGE IS "BEST
ACADEMIC REPUTATION"

55

PERCENTAGE WHO SAID THE KEY FACTOR IN CHOOSING A COLLEGE IS FINDING "THE BEST
FIT"

8 PERCENTAGE OF STUDENTS WHO SAID WHAT THEY MOST WANT OUT OF COLLEGE IS "A
BETTER-PAYING JOB AFTER GRADUATION"

51

PERCENTAGE WHO SAID WHAT THEY MOST WANT IS "A WELL-ROUNDED, MATURING LIFE
EXPERIENCE"

- COMPILED BY KAY HARVEY, PIONEER PRESS. SOURCE: SURVEY BY THE PRINCETON REVIEW
OF 2,885 COLLEGE APPLICANTS AND 1,045 APPLICANTS' PARENTS. SURVEY APPEARS IN THE
REVIEW'S BOOK "BEST 357 COLLEGES" AND AT WWW.PRINCETONREVIEW.COM.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   Huntington Beach Independent (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 11, 2013 Thursday

Council to consider new method for choosing commission members

BYLINE: Anthony Clark Carpio, Huntington Beach Independent, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 488 words


July 11--The structure of the Huntington Beach Community Services Commission
could be under threat.

The City Council voted 6-1 on July 1 to consider a proposal by Councilman Joe
Shaw to rethink the number of commission members and how they are chosen. Mayor
Pro Tem Matthew Harper dissented.

Currently, the commission's 11 members are appointed. Five are chosen by City
Council representatives and six represent each school district in the city --
Huntington Beach Union, Huntington Beach City, Fountain Valley, Westminster,
Ocean View and Coast Community College. All members are approved by the council.

The item passed Monday night gave City Attorney Jennifer McGrath the task of
drafting an ordinance that would increase membership to 12 people. Seven would
be chosen, one each by the seven members of the council, and five would
represent the school districts, removing the Coast Community College District
from the mix.

Council members said they understood that having an even number on the
commission could present voting problems but wanted to get something in writing
and discuss the details at the next meeting.

Councilwoman Jill Hardy supports the changes, saying they would create a better
balance and retain the relationship with the school districts.

"I don't know how often a 6-6 vote would occur or how often an absence occurs,
but that would be the only concern," she said.

The Community Services Commission is responsible for developing park, beach and
recreational facilities around the city, according to the city's website. The
proposed senior center is one of the major projects it has been working on.

Harper, a former trustee with the Huntington Beach High School Union District,
said he appreciated Shaw's effort to have better council representation but
doesn't like his approach.

"I don't think that trying to cherry-pick is the way to approach it," Harper
said. "I think a more comprehensive discussion in regards to each of the
commissions that would benefit from that sort of realignment would be
appropriate."

Shaw's original recommended action was to have each of the seven council members
appoint a member and have the three districts that own developed public parks in
Huntington Beach -- Ocean View, Fountain Valley and Westminster -- choose
representatives.

Harper said this would not send the right message to the school districts.

Councilman Dave Sullivan congratulated Shaw for bringing the item to the table
and said he wants to see a different means of appointment.

"I think the current situation is really out of whack when people appointed by
other entities outnumber the citizens, if you will," he said. "I realize those
people are citizens, too, but I just don't think that's a good situation."

___ (c)2013 the Huntington Beach Independent (Huntington Beach, Calif.) Visit
the Huntington Beach Independent (Huntington Beach, Calif.) at
www.hbindependent.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130711-1HB-Council-to-consider-new-method-for-choosing
-commission-members-0711-20130711

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1HB


                  Copyright 2013 Huntington Beach Independent

                              447 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             WXIN-TV (Indianapolis)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                               May 2, 2011 Monday

Opportunity and family help Ronnie Johnson choose Purdue

BYLINE: Larry Hawley and Jeremiah Johnson, WXIN-TV, Indianapolis

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 399 words


May 02--INDIANAPOLIS -- Even if a person wasn't tuned into the Twitterverse or
the vast array of recruiting networks, Ronnie Johnson's choice would have seemed
obvious anyway.

Aside from the outside speculation, which had the lighting-quick North Central
guard choosing to play his college ball in West Lafayette, there was another
obvious reason why Johnson might think about becoming a Boilermaker.

In fact, it was sitting in the same room at the Indianapolis Star's main offices
in downtown Indianapolis, where Ronnie announced his intentions to play
basketball at Purdue starting in 2012.

"I always thought that," said Johnson of the chance to play with his brother
Terone, who will be a sophomore guard for the Boilermakers next season. "For me
it just came true."

Ronnie made it so by choosing to play for Purdue over Illinois, who also offered
Johnson a scholarship. He began attracting the attention of many during a solid
junior season with the Panthers, including his brother.

"Going into the season, we didn't even know if that was going to be a
possibility," said Johnson of playing on the same college team with Ronnie. "He
did what he had to do on the court and now that we're going to be playing
together that's a great opportunity for him."

It could be a major one for Johnson, since current starting point guard Lewis
Jackson will be entering his senior season at Purdue. Known for his speed and
ability to create for his teammates, Johnson could entering into the point guard
equasion for Matt Painter's team immediately.

"They told me I could come in and play a good role with Lewis Jackson leaving,"
said Johnson, who officially gave the word to Purdue about his commitment on
Sunday. "I just took advantage of it."

Another which he'll have with his brother being there once he arrives in West
Lafayette is familiarity with the program, having visited his brother along with
the program itself during recruitment.

"I've been up there and I know almost all the players so. I've talked to the
coaching staff before even before they offered me. So I know what they are
about," said Johnson.

To see more of WXIN-TV, Indianapolis, go to http://www.fox59.com/ Copyright (c)
2011, WXIN-TV, Indianapolis Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services. For more information about the content services offered by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110502-5IN-Opportunity-and-family-help-Ronnie-Johnson-choose-Purdue-0502-20110
502

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5IN


                             Copyright 2011 WXIN-TV

                              448 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                          February 29, 2012 Wednesday
                                   E1 Edition

Be smart about your education;
Choose a college and a course that's right for you

SECTION: WORKPLACE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 380 words


Young people can be quite discerning when it comes to choosing things that they
value.

Take, for example, the way they choose something "indispensable", like a
cellphone. Unless they're desperate, they won't accept one - even if it's free
from a kind family member - if it doesn't have the applications and features
they want.

They would rather pay for one that has all the "goodies".

Young people and their parents should, however, be as discerning and careful
when it comes to choosing a college, says Kerry Damons, of Boston City Campus
and Business College.

"Like government, most of us spend a whole lot of money on education," says
Damons.

"It is time that we not only look at how much money we spend on education but
rather how well we spend it."

What does spending well in education mean in practical terms?

It means spending money on getting a qualification that is worth more than the
paper it is printed on.

"The main reason for getting a qualification is because it makes it possible for
us to find work that fulfils us and enables us to earn a living," says Damons.

"Imagine the disappointment if you were to discover at the end of a couple of
years of hard studying that employers in your field didn't value your
qualification or that it wasn't a recognised qualification."

When considering further study, ascertain what the course entails, what
qualification you will receive once you have successfully complete the course,
the qualification's level on the National Qualifications Framework, what
accreditation it enjoys, whether it is recognised by industry, and whether
employers are looking for people with that particular qualification.

Spending well also means registering at an educational institution that is worth
its salt.

Investigate the institution's quality of tuition, student support, pass rates,
association with commerce and industry, reputation and accreditation.

"It's easy to think that a school is a school, or a college is just another
college," says Damons.

"Recent reports in the media prove that this is not the case.

"Consider the stories we have seen recently involving initiation, unqualified
and uncaring teachers, serious bullying and a drunk principal. It's best to
visit the premises personally so you can verify if everything meets your
requirements."

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                 Copyright 2012 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                          February 29, 2012 Wednesday
                                   E1 Edition

Be smart about your education;
Choose a college and a course that's right for you

SECTION: WORKPLACE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 380 words


Young people can be quite discerning when it comes to choosing things that they
value.

Take, for example, the way they choose something "indispensable", like a
cellphone. Unless they're desperate, they won't accept one - even if it's free
from a kind family member - if it doesn't have the applications and features
they want.

They would rather pay for one that has all the "goodies".

Young people and their parents should, however, be as discerning and careful
when it comes to choosing a college, says Kerry Damons, of Boston City Campus
and Business College.

"Like government, most of us spend a whole lot of money on education," says
Damons.

"It is time that we not only look at how much money we spend on education but
rather how well we spend it."

What does spending well in education mean in practical terms?

It means spending money on getting a qualification that is worth more than the
paper it is printed on.

"The main reason for getting a qualification is because it makes it possible for
us to find work that fulfils us and enables us to earn a living," says Damons.

"Imagine the disappointment if you were to discover at the end of a couple of
years of hard studying that employers in your field didn't value your
qualification or that it wasn't a recognised qualification."

When considering further study, ascertain what the course entails, what
qualification you will receive once you have successfully complete the course,
the qualification's level on the National Qualifications Framework, what
accreditation it enjoys, whether it is recognised by industry, and whether
employers are looking for people with that particular qualification.

Spending well also means registering at an educational institution that is worth
its salt.

Investigate the institution's quality of tuition, student support, pass rates,
association with commerce and industry, reputation and accreditation.

"It's easy to think that a school is a school, or a college is just another
college," says Damons.

"Recent reports in the media prove that this is not the case.

"Consider the stories we have seen recently involving initiation, unqualified
and uncaring teachers, serious bullying and a drunk principal. It's best to
visit the premises personally so you can verify if everything meets your
requirements."

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                 Copyright 2012 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                            July 15, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

How to choose a higher education course;
Gloucestershire College Careers Column

BYLINE: Ruth Thomas

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 847 words


If you've got to the stage of choosing a higher education course, you will
probably already have thought about the pros and cons of taking higher education
qualifications. For example, you may have thought about what it will cost, but
in the long run it will be worth it as you will have better job prospects and
the potential to earn more money. There are two key decisions you will have to
make when choosing your higher education options: o What do you want to study? o
Where do you want to study?

You can apply for up to five courses through the UCAS application service and
with over 37,000 courses and 370 institutions to choose from, it's good to ask
yourself some questions such as: o What is my main motivation? o What do I want
to achieve? o What is realistic? o What are my personal circumstances? Choosing
what to study You may want to consider some of these things to help you decide:
o Do I have any career aspirations? If the answer is yes and you want to study
something that will lead to a specific career such as law, human resources,
medicine, architecture or teaching, you may want to narrow your search to
courses that are approved by professional organisations. For example, to become
a psychologist you will need to study a course that is recognised by the British
Psychological Society. o Is there a subject I love? You may want to choose
something you enjoy and want to gain an in-depth knowledge of. This could be
something you are already studying, such as English, or something linked to it
such as creative writing. o What type of HE qualification shall I do? Some
courses are more closely related to practical application in the workplace, such
as two-year foundation degrees, sponsored degrees, HNDs and three or four-year
honours degrees which include work experience. Others are more academic and
research based. The course you choose will also depend on entry requirements and
what is realistic for you. o What course will get me a job? Your motivation
might be to do a course that is most likely to lead to a job, so you might want
to find out what industries are forecast to grow. The UK Commission for
Employment and Skills predicts a growth in several areas including engineering,
business and finance, education, healthcare, agriculture, construction,
information technology and transport and logistics. Tip: If you aren't sure what
career you are aiming for but you've got your heart set on gaining a degree
level qualification, choose a subject you are likely to enjoy the most and be
successful in. On graduation there are many jobs you will be able to apply for
that don't require a particular degree subject. Choosing where to study To a
large extent, what you choose to study will help determine where you go. This is
because institutions offer their own range of courses and not all will do the
courses you are interested in. It also depends on your own set of priorities and
if the institution offers what you are looking for such as: o Location - you may
want to stay near to where you live due to personal circumstances or you may
want to be in a city or near the coast. o Facilities - are you looking for great
sports facilities or student accommodation? o Reputation - do you want to go to
a prestigious university that is well known for academic achievement and
research such as those belonging to the 'Russell Group'? o Workexperience - do
you want to go somewhere that has strong links with employers and good
opportunities for work experience such as some of the newer universities? What
can you do to narrow down your choices? o Do an online questionnaire to help
choose a course: www.ukcoursefinder.com o Do a course search online using
www.ucas.com or www.which.co.uk/university o Compare courses using Unistats:
www.unistats.com o Look at the course information on university and college
websites. o Choose some open days to go to and when you are there, listen to
subject talks and look at the facilities. Whichever course you decide to choose,
the Advice and Guidance Team at Gloucestershire College is here to help. You can
book an appointment to talk about your options by calling Student Services on
0345 155 2020.

GC's Zoe scoops BABTAC Award A Gloucestershire College student has scooped the
Inspiring Person of the Year prize in the 2015 BABTAC and CIBTAC Awards.
43-year-old Zoe Warner from Stroud is studying her Health and Complementary
Therapies Foundation Degree with Gloucestershire College and the University of
Gloucestershire, alongside running Vanilla Moon and Pamper and Relax Us, and the
Therapies4Forces (T4F) project. Zoe founded T4F after her husband was injured in
active service and medically discharged from the Armed Forces, before receiving
therapy that transformed his life. Zoe wanted to offer this service to anyone in
a similar situation, and launched the project in 2011 to provide free treatments
to injured veterans and their families or carers. For more information about
Gloucestershire College's Beauty courses, visit www.gloscol.ac.uk/hairandbeauty
or call Student Services on 0345 155 202

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLE


                      Copyright 2015 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 1, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

A Bolder Draft Pick

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 155 words


With the first pick in the NBA draft, Michael Jordan dropped the ball [front
page, June 28]. The man who has meant more to the game than any other player
could have made a major statement for the league by selecting Shane Battier.

Choosing Mr. Battier would have made a great impression on kids across the
country by endorsing the benefits of a college education. Instead, Mr. Jordan's
choice of a high school player will only encourage those teens considering
skipping college to leave for the pros.

Perhaps Kwame Brown will do well in Washington. I hope he does. The draft
experts think this was a great choice. But choosing Mr. Battier would have been
the type of move that takes courage and conviction. Sure, Kwame Brown might have
been the best player available in the draft. But conceding the best player on
principle would have been the type of bold move that we would expect from
Michael Jordan.

CHRISTOPHER T. NACE

Atlanta

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post

                              452 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Sun

                             August 11, 2006 Friday

CUNY Defends Race-Blind Admissions Policies

BYLINE: LEORA FALK -, Special to the Sun

SECTION: NEW YORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 469 words


The City University of New York's chancellor, Matthew Goldstein, strongly
defended the university's admissions policies amid reports showing that black
enrollment has dipped at three of its top senior colleges.

In an interview with The New York Sun, Mr. Goldstein said the university's
admissions policies are designed to be race-blind and aren't impervious to
fluctuations in minority enrollment.

The policies have "nothing to do about whether the student is black, white,
yellow. Those are variables that are not at all considered," he said. "The
important thing is that the university is a welcoming environment with lots of
different entry points."

Between 2001 and 2005 - the four years following CUNY's adoption of tougher
admissions standards - the enrollment of black students at City College fell by
7.5%, at Hunter College by 25%, and at Baruch College by 28.1%. Since 2001, CUNY
has seen an overall 1.3% increase in black enrollment at its senior colleges,
with a 13.3% increase at Brooklyn College and a 9.3% increase at Queens College.

To critics of CUNY's academic reforms, the decline in black students is fresh
evidence that CUNY is closing its doors to struggling minority groups. A former
president of the University Senate faculty governing body and a professor at
Kingsborough Community College, Susan O'Malley, called the decreases
"troublesome."

CUNY officials say the total increase in black students is proof that the
university is accepting students with a wide range of academic skills without
compromising its standards.

Mr. Goldstein said CUNY encourages qualified students to transfer to more
competitive schools within the system. "It is really a function of how motivated
and how hard they are willing to work to get into the college that was
originally their first choice," he said.

A City Council member whose district includes City College, Robert Jackson, said
the black enrollment figures were "terrible," at that they show "we have done a
poor job in educating the children in New York City."

The enrollment figures were first reported in the New York Times.

According to CUNY's chief academic officer, Selma Botman, between 2001 and 2005
there was a 10.5% increase in black students transferring into one of CUNY's
senior colleges, and a 10.9% increase in black freshman enrolling in a senior
college.

She said the decrease in the three schools could be attributed to a combination
of factors, including students choosing to enroll in private universities or to
attend school out of state, and students - in light of the September 11, 2001,
attacks - choosing to pursue degrees related to security and criminal justice.
John Jay College, which is know for its programs in those areas, saw a 2%
increase in black student enrollment and a larger increase in applications from
black students.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The New York Sun, Two SL, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  September 19, 1991, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Trouble choosing? Tips available

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 10C

LENGTH: 115 words


The American College of Sports Medicine, the largest association in the world
devoted to sports medicine and exercise science, plans in March to publish the
first comprehensive standards for health and fitness clubs. The guidelines
represent the first formal attempt to establish standards for athletic and
fitness facilities, says Neil Sol, ACSM co-chairman of the project.

IRSA, the Association for Quality Clubs, is the largest club trade association
in the country with 1,400 members. For its tips on choosing a quality health
club and a list of IRSA clubs in your area, send a stamped, self-addressed
envelope to Commit to Get Fit, IRSA, 132 Brookline Ave., Boston, Mass. 02215.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA In Sports; USA at Play

See main story; FLEX YOUR SMILE AS WELL AS YOUR BICEPS

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.

                              454 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                           December 13, 2016, Tuesday

Your views

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P5A

LENGTH: 352 words


"Trump won the popular vote in the U.S. while Clinton won California:"

This statement in a Dec. 5 Daily Mail editorial is an example of the
self-defeating, insular attitude that keeps West Virginia from fully joining the
national dialog about economic and cultural progress in our country.

California has an economy which - if standing alone as a country - would be the
ninth largest in the world. Unlike West Virginia's, its economy is booming under
Democratic leadership at all levels.

Meanwhile, West Virginia - cheered on by the Daily Mail - is headed the way of
Kansas under Republican legislative control, beginning with the tanking of our
state's bond rating. In my view West Virginia could do worse than a little
California dreaming.

Walt Auvil

Parkersburg

Framers knew what they were doing

I enjoyed Daily Mail Columnist Tom Crouser's commentary Monday on the National
Popular Vote Act in the Daily Mail Opinion page.

The framers of the U.S. Constitution knew what they were doing in Philadelphia
during that long, hot summer of 1787. They designed a system - the electoral
college - under which the states choose the president. That system has served
this nation well for almost 230 years now, ever since ratification of the
Constitution.

Elections in 2000 and 2016 are proof that the electoral college works as the
framers intended, and proof that it continues to have an important role in the
preservation of our Republic.

West Virginia should never surrender the extra voice she has in choosing a
president, an extra voice that comes by virtue of the manner in which electors
are allocated among the states. No small state should.

West Virginia should never surrender its voice in choosing the president to the
citizens of other states. No vote for president by a West Virginia citizen
should ever be canceled or negated by the vote of a citizen of California,
Maryland or any other state.

I assure you that as long as I serve as the chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Committee, the National Popular Vote Compact will never be placed upon the
agenda of that committee.

W.Va. Sen. Charles S. Trump IV

Berkeley Springs

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers

                              455 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Florida Keys Keynoter (Marathon)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            June 24, 2009 Wednesday

College closer on choosing dorm firm

BYLINE: Sean Kinney, Florida Keys Keynoter, Marathon

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 513 words


Jun. 24--Florida Keys Community College officials are mulling two proposals from
developers vying to build a 100-bed dormitory on the college's Stock Island
campus.

Tuesday, members of the college's support organization charged with handling the
development, the Island Living Campus Foundation, discussed the proposals and
got input from an outside financial consultant.

"In general, the formats are about the same," consultant Kirstin Kraig told
foundation members. "There is no structure for the college to pay debt in either
scenario."

Last June, Gov. Charlie Crist signed a bill allowing the college to build a
100-bed dorm with a 45-foot height restriction, 10 feet higher than Key West
building code allows.

Wood Partners, based in Marietta, Ga., is pitching a 45,000 square-foot, $10
million project to be financed through private equity investments and
construction debt.

One snag in their financial proposal is that it calls for the actual land the
building would be on to revert to Wood Partners' control in the event the
college cannot support the debt through student housing fees.

"It left questions in our mind as to whether or not the proposal was putting our
land at risk," college President Jill Landesberg-Boyle said.

"That's not typical," Kraig said. "The land itself is not typically subordinated
to the financing. The land will always be part of Florida Keys Community College
. We'll need more clarification from Wood Partners."

Foundation member Barry Barroso expressed concern that the parameters of the
project are so broad, it's hard for his group to make forward progress.

"The target, to me, seems to be moving around a lot," he told Landesberg-Boyle.
"You don't need to get into the ins and outs, the bonding. That's our job."

The other proposal comes from Missouri-based campus housing developer Student
Suites. Their plan calls for a 30,984-square-foot, $6.2 million building.

Both proposals include plans for possible expansion should the 100-bed limit be
lifted, kitchenettes, study rooms, laundry facilities and parking.

Plans from the two companies also include several unit options including
two-bed, three-bed and four-bed layouts, all with shared bathrooms and showers.

Assuming financing proceeds smoothly, the development teams are shooting to have
the dorm, whoever builds it, ready for use by the fall semester in 2011.

"At face value, the purpose is to get students affordable housing on campus,"
Landesberg-Boyle said. She went on to say that another motivator is fiscal
sustainability based on revenue generated for the college from student rents.

"We want to diversify revenue streams," she said. "We can't depend solely on the
state."

To see more of the Keynoter, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.keysnet.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Florida Keys Keynoter, Marathon
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090624-FK-College-closer-on-choosing-dorm-firm-0624

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FK


                      Copyright 2009 Florida Keys Keynoter

                              456 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           December 28, 2006 Thursday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

QUARTERBACK `KILLER';
LOMBARDI AWARD WINNER WOODLEY IS MICHIGAN FAN FAVORITE

BYLINE: BY KEVEN CHAVEZ Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. S5

LENGTH: 610 words


ANAHEIM - ``Guns Don't Kill People. LaMarr Woodley Kills People.''

They're the words written in blue across a bright yellow T-shirt sold by a
Michigan fan Web site.

By choosing the word ``kill,'' they mean to knock the opposing quarterback out
of the game. By choosing LaMarr Woodley, they're singling out the player in the
nation who does that best.

``At first I didn't know how real the shirt was until I saw somebody wearing it
on campus,'' said Woodley, a senior defensive end who will be playing in his
third Rose Bowl on New Year's Day against USC.

``Then I actually got a hold of the guy (who runs the Web site) and I bought me
a shirt.''

Last season, Woodley knocked out Michigan State quarterback Drew Stanton and
Minnesota's Bryan Cupito. And though no one joined the ``casualties list'' this
season, it didn't stop Woodley from developing into the nation's biggest
nightmare for quarterbacks.

The Wolverines' powerhouse on the defensive line is 6-foot-2 and 269 pounds with
linebacker speed. The riches of the NFL are just a few short months away. With
11 sacks, he earned the Lombardi Award, which is given to the nation's best
defensive lineman.

And he's a cult hero of sorts in Ann Arbor, Mich., which -- unlike opposing
offensive tackles -- Woodley hasn't quite been able to figure out.

``It doesn't seem real, though,'' said Woodley, the Big Ten Defensive Player of
the Year. ``My name's not that big. To other people I'm a role model, or they
feel I'm a star, but I just feel like a normal person.''

Woodley was just a normal freshman when the Trojans beat the Wolverines 28-14 in
the 2004 Rose Bowl.

His lasting memory from that game? Watching Michigan quarterback John Navarre
nearly get ``killed'' by USC's defense.

``I remember USC sacking our quarterback about eight or nine times,'' said
Woodley, who has 23 career sacks and a team-record 10 career forced fumbles.
``They were coming after us and they weren't quitting.

``They continued to play hard the entire game.''

Woodley is unafraid to share his admiration for USC. The Saginaw, Mich., native
took a recruiting trip to Southern California and considered joining the
Trojans, but elected to remain near home.

``It was a close decision,'' Woodley said, ``but I was a young guy and wasn't
used to being away from home and didn't think I could handle it.

``(USC was) definitely my second choice and I root for them every time I watch
them on TV.''

Michigan's defense certainly earned plenty of television highlights this season.
The Wolverines are among the nation's best in total defense (sixth), scoring
defense (eighth, allowing 14.6 points a game) and rushing defense (first,
43yards).

``They have a great team and their defense has been a big part of that,'' USC
center Ryan Kalil said. ``You can see it on film. They hustle around, work real
hard, they do everything they can to win.''

But it's that one loss that sticks with Michigan's best defender. Ohio State
beat Michigan 42-39 in the regular-season finale and the points scored by the
Buckeyes were more than the Wolverines had allowed in the previous four games.

``The thing about the defense is we control the scoreboard,'' Woodley said.
``When a team puts up that many points, we know we didn't do our job that day.''

Woodley's job description remains simple: get the quarterback.

And though on game day he won't be wearing a bright yellow T-shirt, he will have
a bright yellow `56' on his back -- the same place he intends to put USC
quarterback John David Booty.

``You don't try to hurt nobody,'' Woodley said, ``but it's football and things
happen. I'm definitely going to try to get back there.''

keven.chavez@sgvn.com

(626) 962-8811, Ext. 2239

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo: Michigan's LaMarr Woodley finished with 11 sacks this season,
on his way to winning the Lombardi Award. Jonathan Daniel/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily - Africa Weekly

                                 June 13, 2016

Industry preferences of graduates changing

BYLINE: Zhao Xinying

LENGTH: 496  words


Preferences of Chinese college graduates for employment have been changing in
recent years as the country undergoes transformations in its economic and
industrial structure, a recent survey found.

Graduates from normal universities in Hunan province interact with their
potential employers at a job fair in Hengyang in March. [Peng Bin/For China
Daily]

Legacy industries losing appeal for today's job hunters, survey finds; smaller
is looking better

Preferences of Chinese college graduates for employment have been changing in
recent years as the country undergoes transformations in its economic and
industrial structure, a recent survey found.

Knowledge-intensive industries such as information, education and healthcare are
hiring more college graduates, while labor-intensive ones such as architecture
and manufacturing, are losing their appeal to job hunters, according to the
College Graduates' Employment Annual Report.

The survey, which was released on Sunday by education data and consulting
company MyCOS, polled more than 250,000 college students who graduated in 2015.

Guo Jiao, deputy director of the MyCOS Research Institute, said the upgrading of
industries comes with a need for workers with a higher education.

Information technology, for example, is leading the current industrial upgrade
in China and has become an engine of economic growth. Reflected in college
graduates' employment, Guo said the proportion of graduates who chose to work in
media, information and telecommunication rose from 8.5 percent in 2010 to 10.5
percent in 2015.

"College graduates' employment is like a barometer, helping decision-makers to
differentiate fast-developing emerging industries from those that are declining
or facing challenges," Guo said.

The report, in its eighth year, also found that small and medium-sized private
companies and enterprises, as employers, are gaining increasing favor from
college graduates, compared with State-owned enterprises or transnational
counterparts.

The proportion of college graduates who landed jobs at small and medium-sized
private companies rose from 45 percent in 2013 to 52 percent in 2015, while the
proportion of those who found jobs in the other corporations dropped.

Guo said the changes indicate that State-owned enterprises are making some
adjustments to their capacity, and transnational corporations are facing
pressure from rising labor costs.

The report also found that the employment rate of college graduates has remained
comparatively stable despite the slowing economy.

Wang Boqing, founder of MyCOS and an expert on college graduate employment, said
the stability resulted from the rising proportion of graduates choosing to start
their own businesses and those choosing postgraduate studies.

According to the National Bureau of Statistics, among the 6.81 million college
students who graduated in 2015, about 204,000 college graduates, or 3 percent,
chose to start their own business, a 0.1 percentage point rise from 2014.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1497


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                            April 23, 2015 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITION

STUDY: WORKERS NOT PREPARING FOR JOBS IN AREA

BYLINE:  MEG MIRSHAK  STAFF WRITER

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 582 words


The Augusta region's workforce is aging and the younger generation isn't
studying career fields to prepare for future job openings, according to a study
released Wednesday by the Savannah River Site Community Reuse Organization.

Aiken, Allendale, Barnwell, Columbia and Richmond counties need to fill more
than 37,000 job openings by 2019, according to TIP Strategies, an economic
development consultant based in Austin, Texas, that prepared the study.

The four career sectors driving the regional economy - nuclear, manufacturing,
cybersecurity and technology and health care - are facing a shortage of skilled
workers. Higher education students at local institutions are not choosing fields
that match the job openings, and regional employers find it difficult to recruit
talent from other areas of the nation to fill highly skilled positions,
according to the report.

"Folks are choosing health care, which is great because that is in demand, but
they are also choosing a lot of liberal arts degrees," said Tom Stellman,
president and CEO of TIP Strategies. "That's part of where the challenge is -
helping students understand where the demand is and that there are good paying
jobs out there."

The study was unveiled Wednesday at North Augusta's municipal building. About 50
people, including dozens of area economic development leaders, attended the
presentation with a focus on using the study to develop initiatives to create
workforce solutions.

Of the 37,000 job openings projected, about 80 percent will be because of
attrition and retirement, Stellman said. Some occupations have more than 10
percent of workers age 65 and older. Newly created jobs in the region by 2019
are estimated to total 7,600.

Susan Winsor, president of Aiken Technical College and chairwoman of the SRS
CRO, said the small number of new jobs projected is alarming. When the area
cannot fill replacement positions, prospective employers will be reluctant to
locate in the area and create new jobs, she said.

"In the very short term, we have a great deal of work to do, particularly with
our young people to prepare them for those opportunities," she said. "If you
don't, one of two things is going to happen. The labor is going to be imported
from another part of the country and our young people are not going to be able
to have successful jobs locally, or our economy will start to falter because we
cannot supply the workforce."

The SRS CRO was initially created to focus on economic opportunities using
facilities and technology at Savannah River Site, a Department of Energy nuclear
waste cleanup site. The group's mission has shifted to study economic
opportunities across all industries.

In 2009, a study commissioned by the group found 10,000 nuclear workers were
needed to fill positions in the next decade.

Stellman said economic development is no longer driven by government incentives,
utility costs, real estate prices and other factors on which employers
previously based decisions. Employers consider the availability of a skilled
workforce and the quality of life for workers, he said.

The Augusta region has a perception of having a poor quality of life, although
workers who move to the area often find they like living in the area, Stellman
said. Cyber and IT workers favor metropolitan cities with thriving urban areas,
he said.

"There's a big opportunity for you to create that environment to attract that
workforce," Stellman said.

Reach Meg Mirshak at (706) 823-3228

or meg.mirshak@augustachronicle.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2015 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                           September 13, 2005 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

COLLEGE NIGHT HAS INFO FOR STUDENTS

BYLINE: By Kamille Bostick Staff Writer

SECTION: XTREME; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 562 words


At 14, Emore Campbell already plans to be a lawyer and to represent a friend who
hopes to be a doctor and another who wants to own a restaurant.

"We have our lives planned out together," the Harlem High School freshman said.

Emore is always planning. That's why, she said, she'll be at the CSRA College
Night, an annual expo for those looking to pursue higher education, to be held
Thursday at the Augusta-Richmond County Civic Center. The event features
representatives from more than 160 colleges, universities and professional
societies

"I wouldn't want to walk into something and (not) know what I'm walking into,"
Emore said about choosing a college. "It should be a fun night to me - figuring
out what kind of college I want, what sort of track I'm getting into beforehand
because I want to know."

Her mother, Allison, shares Emore's sentiment.

"Really, we don't want it to be the schools choosing us, we want to choose the
schools," Ms. Campbell said. "We want to offer them as much as they offer us. We
want it to be a good match."

By going to College Night and seeing what is available, Ms. Campbell figures she
and Emore can get the leg up they need on the college search.

It's never too early to start the college search process, said Judy Spencer, the
College Night chairwoman.

"It's really essential that they get there and start seeing what's available and
what some of the requirements are," Ms. Spencer said. "If you know early on you
want to be an engineer, then you'll know in high school you need to take
higher-level math and sciences like physics, so when you get to college you
won't be behind the curve. We all know how competitive it is."

With the competition in school far from easing, and so many options for
education, an inclusive fair is invaluable.

"You're more likely to be prepared if you know something ahead of time instead
of having to scramble to get the information," Ms. Spencer said. "Plus, this
beats having to go around to Atlanta or Columbia for something like this or
someplace far away and having to brave the traffic."

New this year is a seminar called Financial Jungle: Surviving College with Good
Credit. Topics include what is good credit, why is good credit important, the
dangers of credit card solicitations, and who to turn to for help with credit
decisions, Ms. Spencer said.

"A lot of students know about how to get financial aid but they don't get told
about the credit card companies and how they are on campus giving out things.
Often, people get in college and then come out and there credit is not worthy of
them getting a job," Ms. Spencer said.

"A lot of people don't realize that employers look at their credit. And then it
could be for car, house or some other purchase, and that (college debt) could
hurt you as far as credit-worthiness. We want students to be aware of that," she
said.

The event also will offer information about HOPE and LIFE scholarships and
several scholarship giveaways, including one for $2,000.

Emore and Ms. Campbell are looking forward to seeing how much of a head start
they can get.

"Right now the sky's the limit," Ms. Campbell said. "(Emore's) looking at
Spelman, Princeton ... We're just out there looking to see who has what.
Hopefully, what they have is what we're looking for and what we have is what
they want."

Reach Kamille Bostick at (706) 823-3223

or kamille.bostick@augustachronicle.com.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2005 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation

                              460 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                              June 13, 2016 Monday

Industry preferences of graduates changing

BYLINE: Zhao Xinying

LENGTH: 523  words


Preferences of Chinese college graduates for employment have been changing in
recent years as the country undergoes transformations in its economic and
industrial structure, a recent survey found.

Graduates from normal universities in Hunan province interact with their
potential employers at a job fair in Hengyang in March. [Peng Bin/For China
Daily]

Legacy industries losing appeal for today's job hunters, survey finds; smaller
is looking better

Preferences of Chinese college graduates for employment have been changing in
recent years as the country undergoes transformations in its economic and
industrial structure, a recent survey found.

Knowledge-intensive industries such as information, education and healthcare are
hiring more college graduates, while labor-intensive ones such as architecture
and manufacturing, are losing their appeal to job hunters, according to the
College Graduates' Employment Annual Report.

The survey, which was released on Sunday by education data and consulting
company MyCOS, polled more than 250,000 college students who graduated in 2015.

Guo Jiao, deputy director of the MyCOS Research Institute, said the upgrading of
industries comes with a need for workers with a higher education.

Information technology, for example, is leading the current industrial upgrade
in China and has become an engine of economic growth. Reflected in college
graduates' employment, Guo said the proportion of graduates who chose to work in
media, information and telecommunication rose from 8.5 percent in 2010 to 10.5
percent in 2015.

"College graduates' employment is like a barometer, helping decision-makers to
differentiate fast-developing emerging industries from those that are declining
or facing challenges," Guo said.

The report, in its eighth year, also found that small and medium-sized private
companies and enterprises, as employers, are gaining increasing favor from
college graduates, compared with State-owned enterprises or transnational
counterparts.

The proportion of college graduates who landed jobs at small and medium-sized
private companies rose from 45 percent in 2013 to 52 percent in 2015, while the
proportion of those who found jobs in the other corporations dropped.

Guo said the changes indicate that State-owned enterprises are making some
adjustments to their capacity, and transnational corporations are facing
pressure from rising labor costs.

The report also found that the employment rate of college graduates has remained
comparatively stable despite the slowing economy.

Wang Boqing, founder of MyCOS and an expert on college graduate employment, said
the stability resulted from the rising proportion of graduates choosing to start
their own businesses and those choosing postgraduate studies.

According to the National Bureau of Statistics, among the 6.81 million college
students who graduated in 2015, about 204,000 college graduates, or 3 percent,
chose to start their own business, a 0.1 percentage point rise from 2014.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/30/146578078724.jpg

f8bc126d97c418c8488603.jpg

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/54/146578079019.png

f8bc126d97c418c848c805.png

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            August 12, 2004 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Get thesite right;
2004 TERTIARY EDUCATION GUIDE

BYLINE: Carolyn Walsh

SECTION: SUPPLEMENT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 642 words


Selecting the right uni is second only to choosing the right course.

Choosing the right university can make all the difference to enjoying the next
few years of your life and succeeding academically.

Yet some students don't give enough thought to which institution will suit their
individual study and personal needs before filling out their UAC preferences,
says Professor Brian English, deputy vice chancellor of the University of
Newcastle.

"The first and most important thing is to pick the program that you most want to
do, but also consider how that program is going to be taught in terms of
content, presentation and work experience."

Professor English uses medicine as a good example of the different ways
universities can approach the same degree.

"Newcastle University delivers a problem-based course which will introduce
students to patients from the first week and get them involved in clinical work
straight away.

"Other universities use a more traditional style based around lecture theatres
and studying underlying disciplines for the first few years. So it is very
important for students to look at their own learning preferences and think about
which method of teaching would best suit them."

Another important consideration is to look at the kind of graduate that a
specific program seeks to produce and see if that profile fits your own
ambitions.

"Look at university web pages and documents from courses closely, but also do
some informal research by talking to graduates and employers to get a feel for
this," Professor English says.

Dr Judith Dickson, dean of students at Macquarie University, nominates being
realistic about UACs as her most important advice when it comes to choosing
which universities receive your preferences.

"Look carefully at what the cutoffs were at each institution for the previous
year and really think about whether you are likely to be successful. It is
important not to waste a preference on a university that is likely to be
unattainable."

Practical issues such as personal taste should also be given consideration, she
says.

"Think about whether you want to study in a rural, urban or suburban environment
and where you would feel the most comfortable. And before you make your mind up,
go to the open days for each place and explore the campus you would be studying
on. Another good tip is to go back on a regular normal teaching day and see what
it is like then."

Other issues, such as proximity to home, public transport and work, as well as
the availability of recreational facilities and accommodation should be
investigated, she says.

And make sure the university you choose is flexible about transferring courses
if you think you might want to keep your options open once you start.

"Some are better than others in that respect. Here, at Macquarie, we allow
students to transfer to around 90 per cent of our other courses provided they
get the grades required in the first semester."

Cost is a major factor to consider in these days of rapidly rising fees.
However, Newcastle University's Professor English warns new students not to be
tempted to go the bargain basement route.

"Fees should never be the deciding factor when choosing a university. Look at
the real costs of attending by taking into account all the different financial
aspects. After all, it may well be better for you to go to a university with a
higher fee or HECS loading if, at the same time, you can stay at home, get cheap
rent or find work that can supplement your studies."

And on the other side of the financial equation, students should look into
scholarships at a number of universities.

"Many offer an extensive range which can be very generous indeed. But these
programs vary from institution to institution so it is a good idea to look into
what is on offer and try to find a match with your own background," Professor
English says.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2004 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Victoria Advocate (Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           August 29, 2012 Wednesday

EDITORIAL: Thank you for choosing Victoria for plant

BYLINE: Victoria Advocate, Texas

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 440 words


Aug. 29--After a long wait and lots of work, Victoria's Caterpillar plant is
finally open. The plant was already starting production before the official
opening ceremony on Aug. 23. And now that the formalities and pleasantries are
done, we are excited to see Caterpillar is up and working in earnest.

The grand opening ceremony was an exciting event, with more than 550 in
attendance, including local officials, company executives and even state Rep.
Geanie Morrison and Gov. Rick Perry.

The plant currently employs about 200 people, but hopes to have more than 250
employees by the end of the year and 800 by 2015. That is an exciting number and
we hope to see plenty of Crossroads residents take advantage of this
opportunity.

Caterpillar chose Victoria as the home for their excavator plant for many
reasons, including Victoria's educational facilities and the opportunity to
raise up a locally-trained workforce to meet the plant's needs. We are proud to
have two upstanding higher education providers such as Victoria College and
University of Houston-Victoria in our community and thank them for their part in
bringing Caterpillar to town. We are looking forward to seeing Victoria
College's Emerging Technology Center and the opportunities that will come from
offering specialized training for the area's workforce. With a training facility
this big in the works, who knows what other companies could join Caterpillar in
their search for the perfect home for future growth.

According to Doug Oberhelman, Caterpillar's chairman and CEO, the opening of
Victoria's plant will put the company in a position to begin to lead the
business worldwide. We are honored that Caterpillar chose Victoria to be the
home of such an important ratio of their production and we hope our city and the
Crossroads will prove up to the task of helping the plant to succeed. As
Oberhelman said at the opening ceremony, companies today need help from the
government and individuals to keep the market competitive. And we applaud
Victoria's government from both the city and county levels for their willingness
to invest in this major economic development.

But most of all, we want to welcome Caterpillar to Victoria. We are proud to see
the long-anticipated excavator plant finally, officially opened, and we hope to
see a long future of production and economic growth. We hope this is the first
of many more partnerships to come.

This editorial reflects the views of the Victoria Advocate's editorial board.

___ (c)2012 Victoria Advocate (Victoria, Texas) Visit Victoria Advocate
(Victoria, Texas) at www.victoriaadvocate.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120829-VI-EDITORIAL-Thank-you-for-choosing
-Victoria-for-plant-0829-20120829

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: VI


                        Copyright 2012 Victoria Advocate

                              463 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Assam Tribune (India)

                              May 27, 2012 Sunday

Assam Tribune Edufair in city on June 1-2

LENGTH: 392 words

DATELINE: GUWAHATI


GUWAHATI, May 27 -- The two-day Assam Tribune Edufair-2012 will get under way at
the TRP Indoor Stadium of the RG Baruah Sports Complex on June 1.

Around hundred colleges from metros like Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad,
Kolkata, Chandigarh, Jaipur, etc., are participating with their stalls in the
annual educational event.

Being jointly organized by the Assam Tribune group of newspapers and the Impact
Media, the fair will provide an opportunity to all career- conscious students
and their guardians in choosing the right career option.

In the precinct of the fair, the visitors will be facilitated to have a chat
with the deans, principals, heads and representatives of the universities and
colleges coming from different parts of the country.

Expecting a huge gathering on both days of the Guwahati Edufair, the public
relations officer of The Assam Tribune group, Ranadhi Sharma said, 'We always
try to provide maximum benefit to the students through our fairs. As the most
reputed fair in the entire north-eastern region, our main objective is to invite
the best colleges and universities from all over the country.'

He said that a few institutions would participate to award scholarships to the
poor meritorious students.

'As in the previous years, this time also we will conduct psychometric tests by
the expert from Mind India for the benefit of the students at the venue. First
introduced successfully at the Assam Tribune Edufair two years ago, the
psychometric test is now a popular and recognized scientific assessment
technique all over the world. This test is being widely used in developed
countries to support students in choosing their suitable career path keeping
their skills, talents, interest, etc., in mind,' Sharma added.

Patronized by Oil India Limited, the Assam Tribune Edufair-12 has also been
supported by educational groups like LPU, GIET, Kaziranga University, BFIT, FMG,
Darwin School of Business, PTU and Sharda University.

Inviting all students and the guardians to the fair, director of Impact Media
Indrajit Das said, 'The Guwahati Edufair is the biggest among all our fairs and
it is the right educational platform for everyone. Here all students will get
very good scope of exploring every new and popular careers and courses available
across the country.' Published by HT Syndication with permission from Assam
Tribune.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Assam Tribune (P) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                              June 28, 2015 Sunday

What college do I choose? Number of students Location Academic programs Life on
campus Cost

SECTION: REFLEJOS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 477 words


(collegeboard.com) -- How can your child find the right colleges for their
needs? First, they should identify their priorities. Second, they should
carefully investigate the features of a series of colleges. Finally, compare
both results.

These are some of the features that should be considered when choosing a college
or four years university.

The number of students at the university has an effect on the opportunities and
experiences of your child, such as:

* Variety of majors offered

* Non-academic possibilities

* Personal attention your child will receive

* Number of books in the library

When considering the size, your child should not only look at the total number
of students. Maybe they're thinking about joining a small department within a
large university. In addition, they should know how much access students have to
teachers.

Does your child want to return home frequently or prefers seeing college as an
opportunity to live in another part of the country? Perhaps they want to have
access to museums, food from around the world, or to major league games. Or they
may prefer to be close to nature and experience the serenity of a small town.

If your child already knows what they want to study, they can research the
recognition that academic departments have by talking with people dedicated to
areas that interest them. If your child has not yet decided, as is the case with
most students, they may need to relax and choose an institution with a balanced
academic offering of majors and programs.

Students generally don't choose their major until they reach their sophomore
year and it's likely that those who knew from high school what they want to
study will later change their minds. Most offer counseling to help students find
their major.

When evaluating academic programs, your child should look for special
opportunities and choose a college that offers many possibilities.

Your child should be aware of university life outside the classroom if they
choose to live on campus. It is important to strike a balance between academics,
activities and social life.

Before choosing a university, they should know the answers to these questions:

* What extracurricular activities, sports and special interest groups are
offered?

* Does the community around the

university have interesting things to offer?

* Are students well received by the

community?

* Are there religious or ethnic groups in

which they can participate?

* How do fraternities influence life

on campus?

* Is residence guaranteed?

* What criteria is used to assign dorms?

The price of college makes cost a major issue for most students. But most
universities ensure that a student with sufficient academic level, regardless of
their economic means, finds financial aid that will allow them to attend class.
When thinking about the cost, don't just look at the price and investigate the
aids available.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              465 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  The Press-Republican (Plattsburgh, New York)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            December 6, 2009 Sunday

More students from China choosing Plattsburgh State

BYLINE: Stephen Bartlett, The Press-Republican, Plattsburgh, N.Y.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 345 words


Dec. 6--PLATTSBURGH -- Reflecting a national trend, Plattsburgh State is
experiencing a rise in students from China.

About four years ago, no students from China were enrolled at Plattsburgh State;
today, there are 59, making it the country with the second-highest population on
campus.

"Most of the growth, I believe, is at the graduate level," said Jacqueline Vogl,
director of International Student Services at Plattsburgh State.

For eight consecutive years, India has sent the most students to colleges in the
United States, with 103,260 in the 2008-09 school year, a 9-percent increase
over the previous year, according to the annual Open Doors report, which was
published by the Institute of International Education.

China sent 98,510 students, a 21-percent increase.

Twenty students from India attend Plattsburgh State this year compared to 21
last year, while 59 students from China attend the university.

The Japanese population at Plattsburgh State is 84, pushing it to the top spot
among an international group that is 418 strong.

More disposable income and a desire to attend American universities over the
weaker liberal-arts system in China are largely behind the significant increase
in Chinese students studying abroad.

"There is a growing middle class in China and an interest in study abroad and
learning English," Vogl said. "They have the money, the means and the desire,
and I think the U.S. is actively courting Chinese students, at this point.

"Plus, immigration barriers five years ago made it difficult to get a visa, and
it seems some political magic happened."

E-mail Stephen Bartlett at: sbartlett@pressrepublican.com

To see more of The Press-Republican or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.pressrepublican.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, The Press-Republican,
Plattsburgh, N.Y. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20091206-ZI-More-students-from-China-choosing-Plattsburgh-State-1206

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZI


                                 Copyright 2009

                              466 of 997 DOCUMENTS


           Northwest Florida Daily News (Fort Walton Beach, Florida)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 14, 2009 Tuesday

Father: Blake Dean returning to LSU for senior season: Former Crestview standout
turns down Twins' offer; to have shoulder surgery on Wednesday

BYLINE: Adam Pruiett, Northwest Florida Daily News, Fort Walton Beach

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 422 words


Jul. 14--If the euphoria from winning the College World Series had started
wearing off for LSU fans, Blake Dean provided another dose to keep the stock
full.

Dean said he wanted to make a prompt decision on whether he'd return to LSU for
his senior season or sign with the Minnesota Twins, and the former Crestview
star has delighted the Tiger faithful by choosing to return to school.

His dad, Mike Dean, said the Twins offered a signing bonus of between $150,000
and $200,000 after choosing him in the 10th round of the Major League Baseball
draft. The price wasn't enough to entice Dean to forgo his last year of
eligibility with LSU and possibly improve his stock for next year's draft.

"I told him to press on, don't look back, don't second-guess yourself," Mike
said.

Dean, who couldn't be reached for comment on his cell phone, will immediately
begin taking steps to bolster his draft stock. Mike said he's undergoing
arthroscopic surgery Wednesday on his left throwing shoulder. MRI tests haven't
revealed any tears or rips on Dean's shoulder but doctors believe he's stretched
some of the tendons, Mike said.

"They feel like it's a stability issue," Mike said.

" ... They'll go in and tighten (the tendons) up."

Dean has been experiencing the shoulder trouble since his freshman season at LSU
and saw his velocity drop from 92-93 miles per hour to the mid-80s when he was a
pitcher. Dean's expected to be ready for fall workouts in October, and LSU coach
Paul Mainieri has promised him that he'll play a position after mostly being
used as a designated hitter his junior year.

"That would be big," Dean previously said of playing a position, which would
likely be first base or in the outfield. "I don't think I'd have a desire or
purpose to come back if I DH again."

Dean is likely to leave LSU with his name splashed throughout its record books.
The 2008 first-team All-American already is sixth on the LSU career RBI list
with 190 and eighth on the homer list with 44.

A first-team All-SEC selection this year, Dean batted .328 with 17 homers, 18
doubles and a team-best 71 RBIs.

To see more of the Northwest Florida Daily News or to subscribe to the
newspaper, go to http://www.nwfdailynews.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Northwest
Florida Daily News, Fort Walton Beach Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune
Information Services. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call
800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The
Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090714-FO-Father-Blake-Dean-returning-to-LSU-for-senior-season-0714

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FO


                  Copyright 2009 Northwest Florida Daily News

                              467 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                 August 9, 1999

Choosing a university is a major decision

SECTION: Pg.4

LENGTH: 359 words


IN choosing a university, you are choosing where you are going to spend the next
few years of your life. Two major decisions concern location and the course you
are taking. Choice of location hinges on whether you want to stay near to home,
or live at home; or whether you would rather get a little bit further away.

If you are aware that you would not be happy moving far away from home, make
sure that you stay close by. Living at home does not mean that you cannot lead a
full university social life. Be conscious that moving far away involves large
transport fares on coming back to visit.

Decide whether you want to live in a big city, or a smaller community. Are you
interested in attending a college in London? London is more expensive than many
other cities to live in, and becoming a poor student it will be necessary to
think of the finances.

University accommodation lists will give an idea of the kind of rent you can
expect to be paying.

The other major point to consider is the course. Find out which places offer the
course that you want to do. The next step is checking whether the course is run
in a way that appeals to you. Is all the teaching in large tutorials, or are
there also smaller group sessions? Which would you prefer?

In a subject like medicine, for instance, there are two quite different types of
course. The new style has more clinical involvement in the early stages. This
may be an important factor in your enjoyment of university life, so make sure
that you check it out.

Another factor is the facilities that the university has. Most have a wide range
of clubs and activities, but if you have a special interest in something, it is
well worth seeing if you will be able to pursue that interest at your chosen
place.

Reading prospectuses is a good way to start the search for a university, but
remember that prospectuses are there to sell the place. You are not going to be
shown any bad points. Therefore, if you are interested, the next stage would be
going on a visit and talking to students who already attend. You can only get a
real feel for a place by going and having a look round yourself.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1999 Leicester Mercury

                              468 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                          February 26, 2014 Wednesday

High school notebook: Edmond Memorial's Warren Wand gets offer from Southern
Miss

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 493 words


Memorial's Wand picks upfirst offerEdmond Memorial junior running back Warren
Wand has been waiting for his first collegiate offer.That wait ended Monday
evening as Southern Mississippi offered the 5-foot-7 speedster."Just got an
offer from Southern Miss!" Wand posted on Twitter. "Give all the glory to god!"

Wand rushed for 1,769 yards and 15 touchdowns last season, following a sophomore
season in which he rushed for 1,812 yards and 15 touchdowns.Wand was No. 15 on
the first edition of The Oklahoman's Super 30 for 2015.DOUGLASS' HUMPHREYSIGNS
WITH KANSASAnthonio Humphrey, who posted last year's fasted 800-meter time in
the state regardless of class, announced Tuesday that he has signed a letter of
intent with the University of Kansas track program.The Douglass senior won the
Class 4A title in the 800, then posted a school record of 1:53.7 at the Meet of
Champions last spring. Over the summer, he cut his time down to 1:51, and has
his sights set on the Junior Olympic record of 1:49."I think I can pop a 1:48,"
he said with a smile. "That's my goal for this year."Humphrey chose Kansas over
Oklahoma, Oklahoma State and several other college programs who recruited him.
He is nationally ranked in the event on Dyestat track and field ranking
system.Humphrey said he settled on Kansas for the opportunity to go out of state
and experience something different."I'm gonna be out on my own," he said. "I
didn't just want to be another Oklahoma athlete going to an Oklahoma college.
Kansas seemed like the best fit for me. They expect big things from me and I
expect big things from myself."Academically, I hope their aerospace engineering
program will take me far. I'm gonna push just as hard in that as I am trying to
win the NCAA title in the 800."Humphrey decided not to run track at Douglass as
a senior, but will instead participate in events with the USA Track And Field
program around the country with hopes of reaching the Junior Olympics in
July.PIEDMONT'S SCOTT COMMITS TO TECHPiedmont sophomore pitcher Kassidy Scott
isn't wasting time on choosing her collegiate destination.She verbally committed
to Texas Tech on Monday, her father and coach Rick Scott confirmed."We are so
excited about being able to play in the Big 12," Rick Scott said.Piedmont also
had two other softball players recently choose colleges with senior Courtney
Anderson choosing Rose State and junior Michelle Brandon choosing East Central
University.WOODWARD'S LITTLE HITS 1,000 BROADCASTSThe voice of the Woodward
Bombers, Gentry "Ace" Little, recently aired the 1,000th game broadcast in his
33-year radio career.Little has been at K101 and Z92 radio in Woodward since
June of 2013, previously working Texas stops in Commerce, Cleburne, Mineral
Wells, Weatherford and the Dallas area.In his career, Little has called six
state championships and has also worked at the college level since beginning his
career at East Texas State in 1982By Scott Wrightand Jacob Unruh

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            January 1, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Perfect fit for new you Perfect fit for;
Sports presenter and mum-of-two Kirsty Gallagher has teamed up with
www.Very.co.uk to launch her own fitness range. Here she reveals why and gives
her tips for staying trim

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24,25

LENGTH: 387 words


involved with this range? involved with this range? I'VEBEEN very lucky to be
able to combine my two loves; sport and fashion.

BEEN very lucky to be able to combine my two loves; sport and fashion.

I went to the London college of art so it's been really exciting for me to
collaborate on this I went to the London college of art so it's been really
exciting for me to collaborate on this fitness range.

involved in the whole process that goes into designing a range, I have been
involved in the whole process that goes into designing a range, from the
original ideas to choosing materials, patterns and colours.

ideas to choosing What is the key to living a healthy lifestyle? I HAVE always
enjoyed sport, but it was in my twenties that I really started to be
conscientious about diet and exercise. The two go hand in hand.

I became more interested in and knowledgeable on how the two impact my body.

What should women look for in their gym gear and what do you wear to the gym?
Activewear I LOVE wearing my collection! It's nice to be confident in what you
wear at the gym, but women shouldn't feel under pressure to look their best.

We go to the gym for ourselves, not for anyone else.

I don't wear make up in the gym as I like my skin to be clean before a workout.

gym as I like my skin to be clean before a workout.

How do you keep yourself motivated? How do you keep yourself motivated? I DON'T
put too much pressure on myself. I stick to a routine but keep it varied and
keep a well-balanced diet.

put too much pressure on myself. I stick to a routine but keep it varied and
keep a well-balanced diet.

I like to schedule gym classes into my diary like meetings then I can be
SUREnothing will I like to schedule gym classes into my diary like meetings then
I can be SUREnothing will be booked at that time.

Do you have a New Year's resolution? I WOULD really like to complete a
triathlon.

London Triathlon I was training for the riathlon when I became pregn ant with my
youngest, Jude, so I had to stop. I am aiming to do it next year.

Do you have any advice for new mums? DON'T pressure yourself. Start small such
as walking instead of driving then take it up a notch.

The same routine or sport doesn't suit everyone so find something you love and
that works for you.

A ¦ ¦ Activewear with Kirtsy Gallagher is available now at Very.co.u

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Activewear leggings, £20 and top, £18

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2015 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 2, 2007 Sunday
                                 SECOND EDITION

OU AHEAD OKLAHOMA TAKES A 28-14 LEAD IN THE THIRD QUARTER AGAINST NO. 1 MISSOURI
IN THE BIG 12 TITLE GAME Daniel tries to alter Heisman history

BYLINE: BERNIE MIKLASZ

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 866 words

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO


When it comes to choosing a Heisman Trophy winner, imagine the Heisman ballot as
the joker in a deck of playing cards.

The ballot can be whatever a voter wants it to be.

In choosing the quarterbacks, running backs and receivers who invariably come
away with the prize, voters can be as finicky as they wish. The electorate can
cast the vote for the best statistics, the most skilled athlete, or for the most
valuable player on a top team.

The criteria is little more than a Rorschach inkblot test.

Saturday night at the Alamodome, Heisman contender Chase Daniel trotted onto the
grandest stage of his college career, leading the No. 1 Mizzou Tigers into the
Big 12 championship game against Oklahoma.

Mizzou's ultimate dream season was on the line, as the No. 1 Tigers hoped to
avenge an earlier defeat to OU and lock down a spot in the national championship
game.

Winning for Ol' Mizzou was the only thing on Daniel's mind, as he politely
reminded media inquisitors earlier this week. Still, Daniel's Heisman candidacy
seemed to be gaining momentum after his epic performance in the 36-28 win over
Kansas for the Big 12 North title.

In the triumph that elevated Mizzou to No. 1 in the BCS standings, Daniel
completed 40 of 49 passes for 361 yards and three touchdowns. Moreover, Daniel
wowed a national television audience with his commanding leadership and poise
under fire.

Coming off that starry night, Daniel had a clear opportunity to sway undecided
voters and reopen closed minds with a prime-time showing against OU.

If Daniel were to become frazzled and commit costly turnovers in a lost cause,
then the Heisman (and Mizzou's No. 1) would slip through his grasp. But if
Daniel rocked the Alamodome and ABC with his guile and playmaking in another
triumphant evening to remember, the showcase could push him to the No. 1 spot on
remaining ballots.

Those who know Daniel best were expecting his best, and that's understandable.
After all, Mizzou needed to win six consecutive games just to reach San Antonio,
and in those six one-game playoffs, Daniel was money. He completed 72 percent of
his passes for 1,878 yards, 17 touchdowns and three interceptions.

"Chase lives for big situations," said Todd Dodge, his coach at Carroll High in
Southlake, Texas, and the first-year head coach at North Texas University.
"There's just something about him, and you can see it right away. I saw it
during his first year playing quarterback for me.

"We were in a playoff game, and we were down. We needed to make something
happen. Chase needed to lead us from behind for a winning touchdown, and he did
it. He just took over. Before big tests like that, you can tell a lot about a
quarterback just by looking at his eyes. You see that deer in headlights look,
or you see 'The Look.' Chase has 'The Look' every time he plays."

Of course, with the Heisman voting being such a subjective process, Daniel still
could be denied even if he seemingly did enough to convert the doubters.

The unshakable cabals in the south and the southeast have all but bestowed the
honor on Florida quarterback Tim Tebow, with strong secondary support for
Arkansas running back Darren McFadden.

It will be difficult for Daniel to overcome such formidable, historically
entrenched provincialism. The south/southeast bloc relied on the "Team MVP"
argument to successfully campaign for such marginal, favorite-son quarterbacks
as Gino Torretta (Miami), Danny Wuerffel (Florida), Charlie Ward (Florida State)
and Chris Weinke (Florida State).

Daniel would fit that MVP profile, because he's a supreme leader. But there is
also difference: Daniel is a superior playmaker compared to those aforementioned
Florida-based Heisman winners. And he has oodles of good stats.

But with Tebow, the cabal has abandoned the MVP argument and is suddenly in love
with numbers. Tebow has 29 touchdown passes and a QB-record 22 rushing
touchdowns, and certainly would be a worthy Heisman winner. But his Gators also
have lost three games. In one of the losses, to LSU, Tebow completed only 12 of
26 passes. In another loss, to Georgia, he had minus rushing yards.

So let me ask you this question: If you put Tebow in a Missouri uniform with his
same unique stats, but also made Mizzou a three-loss team, would Tebow win the
Heisman? Of course not. He'd be discounted like a box of Christmas-tree lights
on Dec. 26.

Another question: If you took Daniel's exact season, and put him in a Florida
uniform, and gave Florida the No. 1 ranking, who would win the Heisman? Please.
In that scenario, Daniel is your runaway winner.

So as Daniel led the Tigers into the Alamodome on Saturday night, he was trying
to take down the Sooners and make Mizzou a champion. But he also was attempting
to eradicate a long-standing voting bias. Any quarterback who can alter history
on two fronts is certainly deserving of The Heisman.

---

Charting Chase

Chase Daniel's throwing suffered in the fi rst half vs. the OU pass rush, but he
also rushed for 37 yards on 7 carries, with a TD.

1st Quarter

C/ATT 6/11

YDS 49

TD 0

INT 0

2nd Quarter

C/ATT 7/12

YDS 74

TD 1

INT 0

---

Opinion STLtoday.com/bernie o How do feel about Chase Daniel's chances of
winning the Heisman Trophy? Sound off in Bernie's Pressbox.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  EYES ON THE PRIZE * MIZZOU VS. OKLAHOMA BIG 12 CHAMPIONSHIP

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Chase Daniel's Heisman bid gained momentum with the win over Kansas.
Chris Lee | Post-Dispatch

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Gold Coast Bulletin (Australia)

                           December 17, 2016 Saturday
                               GoldCoast Edition

Doubly hard to find a job

BYLINE: Lea Emery LEA.EMERY@NEWS.COM.AU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 338  words


ONE degree is no longer good enough with an increasing number of university
students choosing to chase a double degree to help broaden their job
opportunities when they graduate.

Year 12 students will get their final marks today, with their Overall Positions
determining whether they will be able to study the degree or degrees of their
choosing.

University preferences were submitted in September and many students took the
option to choose more than one degree.

The new trend of chasing a double degree is not just confined to the traditional
combinations of degree choices, with many students combining science and
humanities degrees.

Griffith University deputy vice-chancellor Professor Debra Henly said the
university was seeing more and more students choose a double degree.

"Double degrees allow graduates to stand out in the jobs market by equipping
them with a broad range of skills across multiple disciplines," she said.

Prof Henly said more than 70 per cent of new jobs required skills linked to
maths, science, technology and engineering, which was helping drive the desire
for a double course.

"We are seeing students combine science degrees with business degrees,
information technology with business, and engineering degrees with science
degrees," she said.

This trend has also seen the university combine a Bachelor of Criminology and
Criminal Justice with a Bachelor of Information Technology to help those looking
to forge a career fighting cyber crime.

Also moving with new trends in the job market, Griffith has added an additional
Bachelor of Counselling to its course choices after figures found employment
opportunities for counsellors to November 2019 were expected to grow
considerably.

Prof Henly said the university had also introduced a new Bachelor of Education
course to help students keep their options open.

Bond University vice-chancellor and president Tim Brailsford said traditional
medicine and law degrees were still popular with students leaving Year
12."Demand for these programs is very strong again."

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Gold Coast Bulletin


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                             March 20, 2012 Tuesday
                               1 - State Edition

Livewire student site

BYLINE: KATRINA STOKES

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 948  words


Students are advised to use the My University website as an additional tool
alongside their own research when choosing where to study, writes KATRINA STOKES
FUTURE university students will have to wait a few more weeks before the
long-awaited My University website goes live - months after the promised release
date.

The Federal Government said it should be online by the end of March, despite
being planned for a January release.

Even when students can access the site, a South Australian university head says
they should not rely on it to choose where they study.

The website supports a more student-centred approach to higher education and
aims to make the sector more transparent.

It is likely to include fee information, course cut-off scores, student numbers,
application offers, student to staff ratios, graduate satisfaction surveys and
scholarship information.

In a first, it could also provide a breakdown on the success of graduate
employment at each university.

University of Adelaide vice-chancellor Professor James McWha said students
should use the website as an additional tool alongside their own research when
choosing where to study.

``Students need to be proactive and seek out information, ask questions, do
their research thoroughly,'' he said.

``The more information they have the better. If the My University website is
equipped with robust and useful data it will provide another tool to inform
choice of further study.

``But students should remember it is just one other piece of information.''

The website was announced in January 2010 by the then Education Minister Julia
Gillard and attracted a mixed reaction from universities and educators,
including South Australia's university vice-chancellors, who raised questions
about its openness and accountability.

At the time of the announcement, UniSA vice-chancellor Professor Peter Hoj
weighed into the debate.

``We believe transparency is a virtue and we are supportive if the right
information is gathered . . . (but) it is not a simple task,'' he said.

Questions have also been raised surrounding concern about the website ensuring
it does not lead to a university ranking system that could give students the
impression individual institutions are not performing well. Prof Hoj told
EducationNow last week he hoped the final form of the My University website
would meet correct standards.

``It is essential that students and those who advise them have access to
accurate high quality information presented in a context that makes it useful to
inform their choice of university and study program,'' he said.

Flinders University vice-chancellor Prof Michael Barber declined to comment on
the website. The Department of Innovation, Industry, Science and Research and
Tertiary Education will manage the website with new student data released in
August and September every year.

For the 2011-12 financial year, the department estimates the total cost of the
website will be almost $1.5 million.

When the website was announced, Ms Gillard said universities should not be
fearful of it.

``My view is no one should be worried about transparency,'' she said at the
time. The best people always strive to do better and the best people are always
prepared to learn from others who are doing well.''

The Federal Government expects the My University website will attract millions
of hits from both national and international students.

It is based on the My School website which has been labelled ``inaccurate'' and
``confusing''. It compares and lists information about every school in
Australia.

While students and universities await for the pending website to go live,
Tertiary Education Minister Christopher Evans said if the Government waited for
``everything to be perfect'' they would not get the site up and running -
indicating he anticipated complaints. He said they would ``gradually'' increase
the amount of data on the website, which would enable students more choice about
where they will study.

``Students need more information, they need more transparency. If there are
issues about the quality of the data, we will address them,'' he said.

``I made it very clear to the sector that I am happy to work with them to make
sure the quality of information is good because that is in everyone's
interests.''

Shadow Education Minister Brett Mason said the tardiness of the My University
website was yet another non-delivered promise by the Federal Government.

``Now, more than two years later, it is still not up and running, having
suffered from delay after delay and still no clarity on what new information, if
any, the website will actually contain,'' he said.

Mr Mason said he feared the website would turn into more red tape, regulation
and compliance without corresponding benefits for students or universities.

``The website is likely to include fee information, course cut-off scores,
application offers, student to staff ratios and scholarship information.

INFORMATION

OVERLOAD

* The My University website is due to go live this month.

* It will cost $1.467 million for the 2011-2012 financial year.

* It is an interactive, searchable website including course and fee information,
course cut-off scores, student numbers, application offers, student-to-staff
ratios, graduate satisfaction surveys and information on scholarships.

* The Government had originally announced plans for a total of 39 Australian
universities to be included on the website.

* The site is modelled on the My School website, which compares and lists
information about every school in Australia.

* University vice-chancellors have expressed concerns about the website's
accuracy and transparency.

* It will act as an online portal for Australia's 39 main universities.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                              June 6, 2016 Monday

Choose a profession that suits your interests, students advised

LENGTH: 436  words

DATELINE: DAVANGERE


DAVANGERE, June 6 -- "It is most important for students to choose the right
profession that suits their interests," principal of GM Institute of Technology
P. Prakash has said.


 Speaking after inaugurating The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling session
at Kuvempu Kannada Bhavan at Vidya Nagar here on Sunday, he said that instead of
choosing a course under pressure from parents and the influence of friends,
students should opt for a course that suited their interests and attitude.
"Students can achieve complete success in their careers only if they choose
study courses that suit their interests," he added.
 "Apart from choosing the right courses under the guidance of parents, students
should have good social behaviour and social responsibility as they can be
successful only when they possess good behaviour and [are] in good company. It
is the responsibility of parents to keep constant vigil on their wards' friends
circle as there are possibilities that children may cultivate bad habits when in
bad company," he said.
 Prof. Prakash also emphasised the need for students to have a disciplined
approach towards their studies to pass exams with flying colours.
 Principal of Basaveshawara Medical College and Hospital, Chitradurga, Narayan
Murthy enlightened students on the different aspects of National Eligibility and
Entrance Test (NEET) and said that it was mandatory for all government colleges
to take admissions only through NEET and from next year, it may become mandatory
for private colleges also.
 Elaborating on the opportunities in pure sciences, L.K. Sripathy of JNNC
College of Engineering asked parents and students not to focus only on
engineering and medical streams as there were a lot of scope for basic sciences.

 "In future, the demand for courses in basic sciences would increase wherein
students can make a very good career," he said.
 CET Coordinator Niranjan spoke in detail about CET documentation and procedures
that should be followed to get seats allotted depending on CET rankings.
 Education Counsellor from CIGMA Foundation Syed Aejaz Ahmed asked students not
to develop herd mentality while making career decisions.
 Along with these resource persons, Principal of Government Engineering College
K.B. Prakash clarified the doubts of participants on various aspects concerning
professional education during the subsequent interaction.
 Sponsors
 The gold sponsors for the event were AMC City Institute, Nitte Meenakshi
Institute of Technology and Presidency University and the silver sponsor was
HKBK College of Engineering. The venue sponsor was Sir MV PU College of
Davangere.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                             March 22, 2009 Sunday

KYUEM guides students heading abroad

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 422 words


KOLEJ Yayasan UEM places the utmost importance in helping its students gain
entry into the university of their choice.

Deciding on a university in a foreign country where students will spend at least
three years of their lives is an important task.

At KYUEM, 95 per cent or more will pursue their studies overseas upon completion
of their A-levels in June every year.

While a majority go to some of the best universities in Britain, there is a
small number flying to top-notch universities in Ireland, Australia, New Zealand
and United States.

To help students gain entry, KYUEM concentrates on supporting them in their
quest to gain the best results in their A-levels exams during their 18-month or
two-year course.

A student will have to choose from hundreds of courses that differ widely in
content, style and teaching method.

It is tempting to apply to what may be regarded as the best universities but it
is also important to consider some practical issues.

Without proper guidance, choosing a university overseas can be stressful.

At KYUEM, counsellors guide students step by step, from choosing suitable
university options to completing the application forms.

Presentations, workshops, mock interviews and forums are organised to get
students to start their research work, choose universities and write their
personal statement - a vital part of the application form.

A dedicated team comprising the counsellor, tutors and teachers assist students
in the process.

Professional advice is also sought from organisations that have experience in
university applications and placement (for example, the British Council).

As a part of the preparatory work, students make presentations and discuss
various medical issues from the ethical, legal, religious and other
perspectives.

KYUEM students are lucky to get first-hand information from senior academics and
university admissions tutors from universities like Oxford, Cambridge, Imperial
College, University of Newcastle, University College London and London School of
Economics and from universities in Australia and New Zealand who visit the
college regularly.

In addition, KYUEM alumni still studying in Britain gather annually for a
weekend at the college, and share details of their experiences.

Since its establishment in 1998, the college has achieved over 90 per cent
success rate in placing students in the top 10 British universities and the
Irish Universities Medical Consortium.

KYUEM is now recruiting for the July intake. For more information, call
03-64601234 or visit www.kyuem.edu.my

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Excellence in education

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education

                            January 25, 2008 Friday

Athletes' Hours Renew Debate Over College Sports

BYLINE: BRAD WOLVERTON

SECTION: STUDENTS; Pg. 1 Vol. 54 No. 20

LENGTH: 916 words

DATELINE: Nashville


The National Collegiate Athletic Association is known for scripting its messages
carefully, and never was that more evident than at its annual convention here
last week. As Myles Brand, the group's president, delivered his annual
state-of-the-association speech to the 3,000 or so members in attendance, a
giant teleprompter told him when to stand up, when to sit down, and -- literally
-- when to catch his breath.

But this year, some of Mr. Brand's polished talking points contradicted many of
his constituents' beliefs. That has led to some harsh criticism from leading
members. And the NCAA struggled to put a positive face on the fallout.

Over the past year, members of Congress have poked around the well-fed belly of
intercollegiate athletics, questioning whether college sports deserves its
tax-exempt status. Mr. Brand has led the countercharge against the government,
repeatedly defending the educational value of the games.

The NCAA started a Web site last year, NCAAStudent.org, to illustrate how its
athletes balance sports with their academic responsibilities. And in Mr. Brand's
speech here, he said the main difference between college and professional sports
was that "those who participate in our athletics events are students, and
students first."

But even the NCAA's athletes don't believe that's true. According to an NCAA
survey of 21,000 players, the majority view themselves more as athletes than
students.

It's no wonder. Major-college football players reported spending an average of
44.8 hours a week practicing, playing, or training for their sport, the survey
found, with golfers, baseball players, and softball players not far behind.
That's on top of the time athletes spend in the classroom.

'Owned by the Coach'

Those findings shocked campus leaders here.

"That's out of control," said Walter Harrison, president of the University of
Hartford and past chairman of the NCAA's Executive Committee. "I'm hoping the
[NCAA] bodies that oversee football will do something about this, and that the
board of directors pays attention to it."

Robert S. Chichester, until recently athletic director at the University of
California at Irvine, wondered whether players were being pressured to train
that many hours or choosing to do so on their own.

"If we're requiring student-athletes who might not otherwise want to spend that
much time on their sport to practice and train that many hours, then we really
have a problem," Mr. Chichester said.

John A. Roush, president of Centre College, believes colleges are responsible
for the long hours athletes spend on sports. He is a former Division I athlete
and football coach, and his two sons played big-time college football.

"It's not just the time but the command of the experience these coaches have.
They dictate what kids do on their breaks, in their summers," Mr. Roush said.
"In Division I sports, the time of these young men and women is owned by the
coach who is under so much pressure to win that it goes against reason."

Mr. Brand said the key question was how much balance athletes had, and whether
players had enough time for their academic responsibilities. "Once you get past
40 hours," Mr. Brand said, "you're really pushing it."

But he added, "If they choose to say, The two things I want to do in college are
get a good education and participate in athletics -- rather than hang out and
eat some pizza and drink beer -- you know, that's up to them."

But there are increasing concerns about how little control athletes have over
their classroom experience. One in five say their sports participation has
prevented them from choosing the major they wanted, the same NCAA study found.

And as colleges have demanded more of athletes, and the NCAA has raised academic
standards to keep players on track toward graduation, academic advisers have
seen an increase in athletes' choosing certain majors.

Members of the NCAA's powerful Committee on Academic Performance, which created
the stricter academic requirements, said at the convention that they plan to
look at the effect their rules have had on players. And for the first time, the
NCAA will explore whether athletes cluster in certain majors.

"At some level, everyone knows that athletes are being channeled into certain
majors," says Mr. Harrison, the committee's chairman. "It would be helpful to
know how much it is happening and whether it is increasing."

Price of Commercialism

Mr. Brand also used his pulpit here to push what has become a core theme of his
presidency: Encouraging athletics programs to be on the leading edge of
commercialization in higher education.

On the whole, he said, college sports produce revenue of some $10-billion a
year. He argued that universities have an "obligation" to help themselves by
exploiting commercial opportunities.

The message sent a strong signal to federal lawmakers: College sports brings in
lots of money, not only for colleges, but local businesses. In other words,
don't mess with it.

Mr. Brand has some concerns about allowing companies to use images of athletes
in their advertisements. But when it comes to paying for escalating coaches'
salaries and new facilities, his message is unwavering: Show me the money.

Some campus leaders fear the increasing commercial focus clouds the mission of
college sports. What exactly is that mission? According to the NCAA, it is to
help educate its 380,000 athletes, most of whom will go pro in something other
than sports.

To wary educators, though, that is sounding more and more like spin.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2008 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 8, 2017 Wednesday

ACRL releases Choosing to Lead: The Motivational Factors of Underrepresented
Minority Librarians in Higher Education

LENGTH: 429  words

DATELINE: New York



 Chicago: American Library Association has issued the following news release:



 The Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL) announces the
publication of "Choosing to Lead: The Motivational Factors of Underrepresented
Minority Librarians in Higher Education," edited by Antonia P. Olivas, Ed.D.
Through case studies, promising practices, and specific strategies for
cultivating diversity in academic library leadership, this is a resource for
both librarians of color who wish to seek leadership positions and current
library leaders who want to nurture these future leaders.





 Why does a person choose to lead in an environment where she or he is
traditionally labeled "the minority"? Over the years, many library researchers
have found that underrepresented minority librarians leave the profession for
various reasons: microaggressions, discrimination, burnout, lack of opportunity.
But some of these academic librarians both stay in the profession and are
motivated to become leaders.



 "Choosing to Lead" takes a positive inquiry approach by providing first-hand
accounts of success stories, best practices, and practical advice from a
collection of diverse authors. Instead of looking at academic library "failures"
when it comes to diversifying the leadership workforce, this book highlights
what's going right and how to implement it across the profession--with an
emphasis on building strengths and fully leveraging one's interests, behaviors,
and passions, while never ignoring or deemphasizing the prevailing challenges
that exist for diverse LIS professionals who wish to advance their leadership
skills.



 As Mark A. Puente, director of diversity and leadership programs at the
Association of Research Libraries (ARL), writes in the Foreword, "The stories
offered here provide authentic and personal views, from highly diverse
perspectives, about why one might pursue management or leadership positions in
LIS, the challenges that people from historically underrepresented racial and
ethnic minority groups face when they attempt to enter that landscape, and
practical strategies for developing oneself to ensure success."



 "Choosing to Lead: The Motivational Factors of Underrepresented Minority
Librarians in Higher Education" is available for purchase in print and as an
ebook through the ALA Online Store; in print through Amazon.com ; and by
telephone order at (866) 746-7252 in the U.S. or (770) 442-8633 for
international customers.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 7, 2017 Tuesday

ACRL releases Choosing to Lead: The Motivational Factors of Underrepresented
Minority Librarians in Higher Education

LENGTH: 429  words

DATELINE: New York



 Chicago: American Library Association has issued the following news release:



 The Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL) announces the
publication of "Choosing to Lead: The Motivational Factors of Underrepresented
Minority Librarians in Higher Education," edited by Antonia P. Olivas, Ed.D.
Through case studies, promising practices, and specific strategies for
cultivating diversity in academic library leadership, this is a resource for
both librarians of color who wish to seek leadership positions and current
library leaders who want to nurture these future leaders.





 Why does a person choose to lead in an environment where she or he is
traditionally labeled "the minority"? Over the years, many library researchers
have found that underrepresented minority librarians leave the profession for
various reasons: microaggressions, discrimination, burnout, lack of opportunity.
But some of these academic librarians both stay in the profession and are
motivated to become leaders.



 "Choosing to Lead" takes a positive inquiry approach by providing first-hand
accounts of success stories, best practices, and practical advice from a
collection of diverse authors. Instead of looking at academic library "failures"
when it comes to diversifying the leadership workforce, this book highlights
what's going right and how to implement it across the profession--with an
emphasis on building strengths and fully leveraging one's interests, behaviors,
and passions, while never ignoring or deemphasizing the prevailing challenges
that exist for diverse LIS professionals who wish to advance their leadership
skills.



 As Mark A. Puente, director of diversity and leadership programs at the
Association of Research Libraries (ARL), writes in the Foreword, "The stories
offered here provide authentic and personal views, from highly diverse
perspectives, about why one might pursue management or leadership positions in
LIS, the challenges that people from historically underrepresented racial and
ethnic minority groups face when they attempt to enter that landscape, and
practical strategies for developing oneself to ensure success."



 "Choosing to Lead: The Motivational Factors of Underrepresented Minority
Librarians in Higher Education" is available for purchase in print and as an
ebook through the ALA Online Store; in print through Amazon.com ; and by
telephone order at (866) 746-7252 in the U.S. or (770) 442-8633 for
international customers.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 7, 2017 Tuesday

ACRL releases Choosing to Lead: The Motivational Factors of Underrepresented
Minority Librarians in Higher Education

LENGTH: 429  words

DATELINE: New York



 Chicago: American Library Association has issued the following news release:



 The Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL) announces the
publication of "Choosing to Lead: The Motivational Factors of Underrepresented
Minority Librarians in Higher Education," edited by Antonia P. Olivas, Ed.D.
Through case studies, promising practices, and specific strategies for
cultivating diversity in academic library leadership, this is a resource for
both librarians of color who wish to seek leadership positions and current
library leaders who want to nurture these future leaders.





 Why does a person choose to lead in an environment where she or he is
traditionally labeled "the minority"? Over the years, many library researchers
have found that underrepresented minority librarians leave the profession for
various reasons: microaggressions, discrimination, burnout, lack of opportunity.
But some of these academic librarians both stay in the profession and are
motivated to become leaders.



 "Choosing to Lead" takes a positive inquiry approach by providing first-hand
accounts of success stories, best practices, and practical advice from a
collection of diverse authors. Instead of looking at academic library "failures"
when it comes to diversifying the leadership workforce, this book highlights
what's going right and how to implement it across the profession--with an
emphasis on building strengths and fully leveraging one's interests, behaviors,
and passions, while never ignoring or deemphasizing the prevailing challenges
that exist for diverse LIS professionals who wish to advance their leadership
skills.



 As Mark A. Puente, director of diversity and leadership programs at the
Association of Research Libraries (ARL), writes in the Foreword, "The stories
offered here provide authentic and personal views, from highly diverse
perspectives, about why one might pursue management or leadership positions in
LIS, the challenges that people from historically underrepresented racial and
ethnic minority groups face when they attempt to enter that landscape, and
practical strategies for developing oneself to ensure success."



 "Choosing to Lead: The Motivational Factors of Underrepresented Minority
Librarians in Higher Education" is available for purchase in print and as an
ebook through the ALA Online Store; in print through Amazon.com ; and by
telephone order at (866) 746-7252 in the U.S. or (770) 442-8633 for
international customers.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                             Bromsgrove Advertiser

                            March 30, 2017 Thursday

Civilians could become chief constables under Government plans

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 291 words


CIVILIANS could compete with senior police for chief constable jobs under new
Government plans.

It is understood that people from outside policing could take the top roles in
England and Wales following Home Office proposals.

The Home Office said choosing police leaders is of the "highest importance", and
the College of Policing said individuals would be required to undergo
"appropriate training".

A consultation on the plans is believed to have begun.

Giselle Lockett, lead for professional development at the College of Policing,
said: "The appointment to become a chief constable requires a candidate to meet
some of the most stringent requirements in policing.

"Currently, to become a chief constable, you must pass the Police National
Assessment Centre and complete a four-month Strategic Command Course.

"The requirements reflect the seriousness and importance of the role and are set
to identify officers capable of being an effective chief officer.

"The proposed legislation would allow police and crime commissioners to appoint
a chief constable from outside policing who would then be required to undergo
appropriate training specified by the college.

"We will now consider these proposals alongside our current work to provide
advice on appointments including those from chief officer roles in the fire
service."

A Home Office spokesman said: "Choosing our police leaders is of the highest
importance to the future of the service and schemes such as Direct Entry bring
people from a wide range of backgrounds into forces."

The Direct Entry scheme allows candidates from outside policing to join the
service at certain ranks, and is seen to offer the opportunity to widen the
talent pool and bring in people from a diverse range of backgrounds.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 11, 2007

A degree in cut and paste

BYLINE: Rachel Johnson

SECTION: FEATURES; News Review; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1164 words


It would be funny were it not so sad. Officers at Ucas, the university
admissions service, were grimly ploughing through personal statements from
students last year (this is the only part of the paper admissions process that
applicants can stamp with their own DNA) and found that they did not appear to
be choosing between thousands of variegated, textured, enthusiastic young
people. They were choosing between clones.

In a survey of 50,000 applications, many for Oxford and Cambridge to study
medical science, 234 applications confided an anecdote that started, "Ever since
I accidentally burnt holes in my pyjamas after experimenting with a chemistry
set on my eighth birthday I have always had a passion for science."

Many also kicked off, "Living with my 100-year-old grandfather has allowed me to
appreciate the frailties of the human body." Touching to read once, maybe, but
after encountering this humane observation 175 times in a single entry round,
one can dimly see that the admissions tutors might have smelt a rat.

Let's leave aside the fact that asking a 17-year-old who enjoys pulling,
shopping, sleeping and MSN Messenger -and who is only applying to uni because
all his mates are -to craft a faithful and accurate personal statement is about
as daft as asking, say, a tobacco company for an honest corporate mission
statement. That's by the by. I know where the rat is and so do we all. It's
online.

I'll let you into a secret. The reason why I and many other journalists can
write a piece on almost any mainstream subject and endow our articles with a
veneer of authority in the time it takes to roast a chicken is the internet.

I can see what others have written, I can download quotes, Google the subject,
sift through newspaper websites and copy stuff.

But none of this means that I know anything. It just means that I am persuasive
enough in my presentation to make the seamless leap from total ignorance to
apparent expertise with some pencil-chewing and a few clicks of the mouse.

The universities know this, too, just as they know that the problem of
plagiarism (although I call it "research" when I do it) is endemic, impossible
to prevent and making things worse for everyone. "Today's students have a
different notion of using evidence because of the way they use the internet,"
says Steve Smith, vice-chancellor of Exeter University.

Before they all had laptops equipped with broadband and search engines, students
had to use other tools when it came to finding and digesting information that
they would have to reproduce later under exam conditions. Those tools were
called books, but most students these days don't have much time for them. Too
old-fashioned. Too much effort. Too much pressure.

The internet has, let's face it, put the paper-printed word almost out of
business when it comes to education. It is the first and only port of call for
many students.

Cue violins and so on, but in the old days I do remember that homework meant
using dictionaries, reading textbooks, and drawing crabs and ox-bow lakes and
King John at Runnymede by hand with coloured pencils and making things out of
egg boxes.

Now primary school children go to online calculators to do their sums, and if
they are asked to write or illustrate a piece of work (they are never asked to
learn by heart or by rote), they can download it in seconds from myriad
educational websites, and cut and paste the illustrations from online image
banks.

The use of recycled and copied material for coursework in GCSEs and A-levels -
also available for a fee online -is now so widespread that examiners have
complained it's impossible to tell candidates' work apart, and the government
had to hold a summit.

At university, a hundred years ago, when I was set an essay -apart from one
undistinguished episode that I will come to shortly -I would rush to the library
and swottily remove from the shelves all the books the tutor had asterisked on
the suggested reading list before anyone else could get their hands on them. I
would then go away, read the relevant bits and beaver away in longhand for hours
to produce my five sides of A4, which I would read out in full while my tutor
struggled to remain conscious.

Now, of course, students can download entire essays from the internet, use
online encyclopedias that aren't even written by academics (Wikipedia) or, with
a quick e-mail, commission graduates to compose the essays for them. So it's not
surprising, when faced with an online application form in which they are
supposed to express their innermost core and reveal what makes them so different
from the other 50,000 applicants wanting to study medicine, that hundreds of
students simply download someone else's thoughts.

Sad on so many levels. Students can cut and paste, but they can't write or
structure an argument. The download industry encourages cheating and plagiarism
- even if the service providers say otherwise -but demeans genuine learning and
achievement. It taints and diminishes everyone. The only winner when it comes to
cheating is the £ 200m-a-year online essay industry where rates start at £ 120
for 1,000 words. (Which means that it's more lucrative for graduates to ghost
student essays than it is to contribute original, bylined work to several
national newspapers.)

Let me conclude with a confession, just to show how pointless and shaming and
undistinguished it all is. It is one that I have made before -in case anyone
felt tempted to accuse me of self-plagiarism -but here goes, anyway.

When I was at university my Greek literature tutor set me an essay on Solon, the
distinguished pederast, lyric poet and lawmaker (he introduced trial by jury in
6th-century Athens). My heart naturally sank. So I turned to the sheaf of essays
I had been lent by a classics scholar at Balliol who knew his onions and lo, I
found one on the exact same subject.

When it came to my tutorial I simply read out verbatim his entire essay. I
couldn't understand much of it, let alone decipher his handwriting, but
otherwise I felt the tutorial was going like a train. At the end I sank back
expectant and awaiting plaudits.

"Not your best effort, Rachel," my tutor said, giving me a hard stare.

Well, at least I knew I'd cheated and so did my tutor. But apparently the few
students who are officially accused of plagiarism (it is a difficult charge to
prove) are affronted. They whinge about tuition fees and being busy and stressed
or whatever. But above all, they don't think they've done anything wrong. Some
have even threatened to sue.

So to rephrase the question: if those who apply to higher education all have the
same grades, present the same statements, do all their research online without
using textbooks, hand in essays they have paid others to write for them or
downloaded from the internet and think that's what studying for a degree is all
about, what on earth is university for?

I don't know, but you're bound to find an answer if you Google it.

rachel.johnson@sunday-times.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                           February 25, 2014 Tuesday

High school notebook: Edmond Memorial running back Warren Wand gets offer from
Southern Miss

SECTION:

LENGTH: 483 words


Edmond Memorial junior running back Warren Wand has been waiting for his first
collegiate offer.That wait ended Monday evening as Southern Mississippi offered
the 5-foot-7 speedster."Just got an offer from Southern Miss!" Wand posted on
Twitter. "Give all the glory to god!"

Wand rushed for 1,769 yards and 15 touchdowns last season, following a sophomore
season in which he rushed for 1,812 yards and 15 touchdowns.Wand was No. 15 on
the first edition of The Oklahoman's Super 30 for 2015.DOUGLASS' HUMPHREY SIGNS
WITH KANSASAnthonio Humphrey, who posted last year's fasted 800-meter time in
the state regardless of class, announced Tuesday that he has signed a letter of
intent with the University of Kansas track program.The Douglass senior won the
Class 4A title in the 800, then posted a school record of 1:53.7 at the Meet of
Champions last spring. Over the summer, he cut his time down to 1:51, and has
his sights set on the Junior Olympic record of 1:49."I think I can pop a 1:48,"
he said with a smile. "That's my goal for this year."Humphrey chose Kansas over
Oklahoma, Oklahoma State and several other college programs who recruited him.
He is nationally ranked in the event on Dyestat track and field ranking
system.Humphrey said he settled on Kansas for the opportunity to go out of state
and experience something different."I'm gonna be out on my own," he said. "I
didn't just want to be another Oklahoma athlete going to an Oklahoma college.
Kansas seemed like the best fit for me. They expect big things from me and I
expect big things from myself."Academically, I hope their aerospace engineering
program will take me far. I'm gonna push just as hard in that as I am trying to
win the NCAA title in the 800."Humphrey decided not to run track at Douglass as
a senior, but will instead participate in events with the USA Track And Field
program around the country with hopes of reaching the Junior Olympics in
July.PIEDMONT'S SCOTT COMMITS TO TEXAS TECHPiedmont sophomore pitcher Kassidy
Scott isn't wasting time on choosing her collegiate destination.She verbally
committed to Texas Tech on Monday, her father and coach Rick Scott confirmed."We
are so excited about being able to play in the Big 12," Rick Scott said.Piedmont
also had two other softball players recently choose colleges with senior
Courtney Anderson choosing Rose State and junior Michelle Brandon choosing East
Central University.WOODWARD'S LITTLE HITS 1,000 BROADCASTSThe voice of the
Woodward Bombers, Gentry "Ace" Little, recently aired the 1,000th game broadcast
in his 33-year radio career.Little has been at K101 and Z92 radio in Woodward
since June of 2013, previously working Texas stops in Commerce, Cleburne,
Mineral Wells, Weatherford and the Dallas area.In his career, Little has called
six state championships and has also worked at the college level since beginning
his career at East Texas State in 1982.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  The National

                             August 25, 2013 Sunday

To deal with career confusion, accept it.

BYLINE: Manar Al Hinai

LENGTH: 633  words


If you face career confusion or doubt, it is good to keep the following three
points that I often tell my friends and have helped to ease their minds.


However, it was not until my final year in school that career panic really hit
me hard. I had college applications to fill out and I still did not know what I
wanted to study or be in life. I remember applying for computer science and
economic majors until I finally thought that media and communications studies
were the right fields to cater to my creative mind. ¬ It has taken a while, but
after seeing many colleagues in the workforce who still face a similar dilemma,
I know that career confusion can happen at any age.

¬ A colleague quit her post at a financial organisation to follow her real
passion - cooking - and finally opened her dream restaurant. In addition, many
Emirati college students feel that they may have made the wrong choice of
degree, or do not know what they want to do with their lives. ¬ The good thing
about this is that it is all right to be confused. No one has it completely
figured out. We sometimes discover that our passion lies somewhere else years
after we specialised in a different field, and that is not wrong. For instance,
after I did my masters in diversity management, I regretted not doing it in a
writing major. However, that did not discourage me from pursuing that passion. ¬
If you face career confusion or doubt, it is good to keep the following three
points in mind that I often tell my friends and have helped to ease their
minds:o You are not stuck with your college major for life. Choosing a college
major is probably one of the most intense decisions. It is not uncommon if you
are persuaded by your parents to follow an option that would have better job
offerings than your true passion. My friend was persuaded by her mother to opt
for an engineering major than an art one, as that would guarantee her a better
paying job. Art would not equip my friend with »real« skills, thought her
mother.Do not overwork yourself. One has to be sensible when it comes to
choosing a major, but valuable skills such as time management, giving a
presentation and teamwork can be picked up with any major. An article published
last May by The Washington Post stated that only 27 per cent of Americans worked
in fields related to their majors. ¬ If you are not in the 27 per cent, you can
still have an awesome career. Mick Jagger´s major was in literature and Rowan
Atkinson of the Mr Bean show majored in electrical engineering.o Which takes us
to the second point: your first career is not your last. Sure it may feel that
way when you first join an organisation, but you will not necessarily be in it
for a long time. Career aspirations will change as your experiences grow.Shifts
in technology can also have a great effect on a career. Photographers who worked
as film developers in studios had to adapt their roles to keep up with the
advances in the digital world. ¬ If you do not feel passionate about your job,
figure out ways that you can learn from it. For instance, if you like your
organisation´s culture and team members, perhaps you should look for a job with
a similar culture. Weigh out the pros and cons of your current role to help you
make the right decision about your career path.o Finally, it is wise to keep in
mind that everyone - from chief executive to intern - goes through career
confusion, and they do not necessarily have the answers to all their
questions.Career confusion, as irritating as it may be, is a good thing. It
indicates that one cares about their future well enough to make the best out of
it. So embrace the confusion, and never stop looking for answers.

Manar Al Hinai is an award-winning Emirati writer and fashion designer. Follow
her on Twitter:@manar_alhinai

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 818


                     Copyright 2013 Abu Dhabi Media Company
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Nanaimo News Bulletin

                           October 13, 2016 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Variety of VIU scholarships offer financial help

SECTION: COMMUNITY; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 460  words


By Jenn McGarrigle

Nearly 40 students will begin or continue their studies at Vancouver Island
University this fall with fewer financial worries, thanks to the university's
President's Scholarships programs.

VIU has a number of full-ride scholarship programs available to students: The
Chancellor's Entrance Scholarships for aboriginal high school students; The
President's Entrance Scholarships for Vancouver Island high school students; the
President's Entrance Awards for scholar athletes and the President's
Scholarships for continuing students.

Twenty-one students are taking advantage of the entrance scholarships for
Vancouver Island high school students program this year - up from 17 last year
and the most students to take advantage of that program since its inception in
2008.

"We are pleased that more of our area's top students are choosing VIU and
choosing to study close to home," said Ralph Nilson, VIU president and
vice-chancellor. "Supporting excellence in education is one of VIU's core
values, as is supporting local Indigenous learners, our award-winning athletics
program and our current students who are excelling in their studies. The fact
that more of our top local students are choosing VIU than ever before shows that
students see the value in the education they receive here."

Matthew Hais, who graduated from Nanaimo Christian School last June, is excited
to start the carpentry apprenticeship program in October with the help of the
entrance scholarship.

"This award is going to do quite a bit in allowing me to establish the career
base that I am hoping to do with my carpentry ticket," he says. "By allowing me
to pursue post-secondary education without the financial burden, it allows me to
focus on other financial areas, such as buying tools to actually do the work, or
even attend business courses in the future."

Charmaine Lightfoot, a continuing student scholarship recipient who is going
into her third year of a bachelor of science in nursing degree at VIU, is
appreciative of the quality of education she's received so far. The highlight of
her time here has been the personalized feedback she receives from professors.

"When I share my learning experiences with them, I continuously receive
incredible insights and encouragement," she says. "To me, this is richer than
receiving a test score. This award means that I have a community who believes in
me and trusts that I will go on to do positive things. This award is a lifelong
gift that will enable me to improve myself so that I become a more engaged and
aware member of society."

For more information on the scholarships, awards and bursaries available at VIU,
please visit www2.viu.ca/financialaid/about.asp .

Jenn McGarrigle is a writer with VIU's communications department.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Black Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Laurel Leader-Call (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             April 18, 2011 Monday

Library hosts gardening workshop

BYLINE: Amy Beets, Laurel Leader-Call, Miss.

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 382 words


April 18--ELLISVILLE -- The Friends of the Ellisville Library hosted a a free
spring gardening workshop Monday, April 11, to recognize National Library Week.

Jones County Junior College horticulture instructor Wendy Wilkerson presented a
workshop on container gardening with the assistance of work-study student, Randa
Tolar at the George V. Harrison Community Services Building.

Wilkerson said when choosing  plants and flowers, select a variety based on
height, mass and color. Choosing hardy plants  also helps to ensure a colorful
mass of blooms.

She also recommended planting longer living plants next to plants which only
live through the spring. Such as planting petunias and spice plant in the same
container. When the petunia dies, the spice plant will continue to grow andfill
the space left by the petunia.

Container gardening can be successful in sunny or shady areas as long as the
appropriate plants are chosen.

Petunias, vinca, verbena, bachelor buttoms and diamond cross are many springtime
favorites which work well mixed in containers.

Prepare containers by filling them a few inches with broken pits, old plastic
bottles, packing peanuts or anything which will encourage good drainage of the
soil. Wilkerson recommends using a Miracle Gro plant food attachment on the
watering hose to feed plants the perfect amount of nutrients.

Mushroom compost or moisture control soil when planting will keep plants healthy
and at their peak blooming capacity.

Also using a slow release plant food can yield very fast results in the overall
appearance of the flower. Organic plant food such as bone meal and bloodmeal are
also good alternatives to commercial plant food, although results are seen much
slower possibly up to 12 weeks.

Bulb boosters and bloom boosters are also favorites among gardeners to enhance
bloom color and count.

Wilkerson also prepared several large flower pots, provided by the Ellisville
Garden Club to be displayed at the library.

To see more of the Laurel Leader-Call or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.leadercall.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Laurel Leader-Call, Miss.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110418-LH-Library-hosts-gardening-workshop-0418-20110418

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LH


                       Copyright 2011 Laurel Leader-Call

                              485 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Ely Standard

                           January 11, 2018 Thursday

BYLINE: PR Script Managers

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 327 words


Former students of Ely College are being urged to use their experience to boost
current students' chances of going to university.

Ely College alumni are being urged to volunteer their experience to boost
current students' chances of going to university.



The initiative is run by the national education charity Future First and
delivered by the Network for East Anglian Collaborative Outreach, which aims to
increase the number of young people from underrepresented backgrounds in higher
education by 2020.

Future First will help participating schools build alumni communities, bringing
back former students with experience of higher education as role models so the
current generation is more motivated, confident and equipped to go to
university.

The charity will run workshops in each school and college helping to inspire
students about the different courses available to them and enabling them to make
a more informed decision about choosing the right university for them.

Visit networks.futurefirst.org.uk/register to sign up.

The initiative is run by the national education charity Future First and
delivered by the Network for East Anglian Collaborative Outreach, which aims to
increase the number of young people from underrepresented backgrounds in higher
education by 2020.

Future First will help participating schools build alumni communities, bringing
back former students with experience of higher education as role models so the
current generation is more motivated, confident and equipped to go to
university.

The charity will run workshops in each school and college helping to inspire
students about the different courses available to them and enabling them to make
a more informed decision about choosing the right university for them.

Future First is asking former students to volunteer their support at one of
these workshops by sharing their story of university with current students.

To sign up visit https://networks.futurefirst.org.uk/register

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ELY


                    Copyright 2018 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            January 3, 2012 Tuesday

U. admissions

BYLINE: Tribune Editorial

SECTION: OPINION; Editorials

LENGTH: 401 words


Utah's flagship university must walk a fine line when it comes to choosing which
potential students to admit to each freshman class: set the bar too low and too
few graduate; get too selective and enrollment drops.

So the University of Utah has slowly raised admission requirements over several
years and rightly plans to consider more factors in choosing incoming freshmen.
The traditional admissions "index," which considers ACT score and high school
grade point average, helps predict success in college.

Now the U. intends to broaden the qualifying criteria for students whose index
score is relatively low but who excel in non-core subjects such as art or music
or who have served the community.

The new criteria will also put more emphasis on the difficulty of classes taken
in high school and consider whether the student would be the first in his or her
family to attend college.

Such a comprehensive look at applicants is similar to the process at top
universities in other states. As the U. settles into the Pac-12 athletic
conference, there is pressure to bring its academic standards in line with its
sister institutions. That pressure and the results of a recent legislative
audit, which show the U. with a graduation rate of only 58 percent, add urgency
to the university's gradual raising of admission standards.

Parents and educators know that some high school students with average or even
poor grades can be successful at a tough university such as the U. or Utah State
University. Sometimes it's a matter of maturity, and a year or two at a
community college are the answer. Other students' high school GPAs are
relatively low because they have taken a rigorous curriculum through secondary
school. Some of them earn high ACT scores that indicate their level of learning.

Still others are dedicated scholars but not good test-takers. High school
counselors who understand that the U. will consider other accomplishments could
direct those students to community service or extracurricular activities that
would showcase their unique skills.

It should be the job of admissions officers at top universities to look beyond
standardized admission tests and GPA. Doing so should, in the long term, raise
the percentage of freshmen who earn degrees.

Just as important, broadening the criteria will encourage high school students
to take rigorous courses without worrying that doing so might hurt their GPA.



LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                           February 18, 2017 Saturday

UniMAP to aid school leavers

BYLINE: Adie Suri Zulkefli

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 556 words


KANGAR: THEY were bright students who did well in either the Sijil Pelajaran
Malaysia (SPM) or Sijil Tinggi Pelajaran Malaysia (STPM) examinations, but
things did not working smoothly as they furthered their studies at the tertiary
level.

Some of them subsequently lost interest, or in some cases, the students had
decided to quit their studies halfway through their programme.

These are among the cases of students who lost their way after furthering
studies at the tertiary level just because they did not select the right
programme or institution of higher learning, that suits their talent and
interest.

To avoid making such errors, which would put their futures at risk, SPM and STPM
leavers in Perlis and Kedah are encouraged to attend the two-day National Higher
Education Mini Carnival 2017 at Universiti Malaysia Perlis (UniMAP's) Pauh Putra
campus this weekend.

Twenty public universities, private institutions of higher learning, the
Polytechnic Education Department, the Community College Education Department,
and other agencies under the Higher Education Ministry will take part in the
carnival, hosted by UniMAP.

UniMAP Vice-Chancellor Datuk Professor Dr Zul Azhar Zahid Jamal said besides
students, parents were also welcomed to attend so that they could get guidance
on the programmes that were in line with their children's interests.

"Most SPM and STPM leavers already have in mind which programmes they wish to
pursue, according to their qualification and interest in certain fields.

"However, some of them did not get the right advice and ended up selecting
programmes that were not in line with their core interest, causing them to lost
interest after pursuing their studies at the university.

"That is why the ministry is organising this carnival so that SPM and STPM
leavers get guidance to make an informed decision," he said.

Zul said the objective of the carnival was to provide SPM and STPM leavers
counselling. Counsellors would advise them on choosing the programmes that best
suited their interests and qualifications for the 2017/2018 intakes, in line
with the carnival's tagline "Jom Masuk IPT" (Let's enter IPT).

"Highlights of the carnival include an education exhibition, career talks and a
seminar on university intakes at Putra Regency Hotel here and the Universities
Centralised Unit (UPU) online kiosks to facilitate applications for the
2017/2018 intakes."

He said the National Higher Education Fund Corporation and relevant agencies
would be there to advise students on study loans and scholarships.

He said choosing the right institution of higher learning was important.

He said applicants should be wise when choosing universities or institutions of
higher learning. They should make sure that the university has a proven track
record, especially its graduate employability.

He said UniMAP, for instance, had a solid graduate employability record, thanks
to its industrial-oriented academic programmes, which produced graduates that
met employers' expectations.

"In 2015, almost 90 per cent of UniMAP graduates were able to get jobs within
six months of graduating, which placed it in third place among public
universities."

Zul said UniMAP achieved another milestone last year when 82 per cent of its
graduates were employed as of their convocation, exceeding the 80 per cent
target set by the ministry.

( END )

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             June 12, 2012 Tuesday

Ability and aptitude are key to choosing suitable career

BYLINE: Arun Mathew

SECTION: COIMBATORE

LENGTH: 404 words


COIMBATORE: Choosing a suitable career that is both lucrative and interesting is
a tricky proposition.

Meenakshi Vaidyanathan, the vice principal of a higher secondary CBSE school in
the city said that every year a few students drop out of chosen courses.

Many of these students may have been forced to take certain subjects, either by
parents or perhaps due to peer pressure. However, there are a few who opt for
the courses themselves and then later drop out. This defies the usual logic that
choosing an area of ones own interest is the key to success.

M Elango, head of the psychology department of PSG Arts and Science College said
that a student's interest may not match his abilities.

"One may be interested in mechanical engineering because of his parents, the
family or even the books or movies he watches. But this does not necessarily
mean he or she may have the ability to be competent in the field," he notes.

Without the ability or what psychologists call 'aptitude' in any particular
field, one may not be able to make much progress in the field even if
opportunities are present, he said.

But how is it possible for an average person to identify an area of talent if
like most of us, he or she has not shown talent in an area like music, writing
or any particular area for that matter.

"Here is where most of us make a choice based on interest, which may have
developed from books, family or otherwise," said Elango. He says there are
psychologically proven tests which can help identify an area where he or she has
talent.

There are different modules of aptitude tests which can assess abilities in
verbal, technical, language as well as other areas. But the accuracy of such
tests is questionable although T Srinivasan, a former psychology professor
confirms that such tests are accurate. The results of such a test can be
assessed only by a trained psychologist, he added. Moreover, this is a
time-consuming exercise which may even cost a few thousands, he said.

B Selvaraj, an associate professor of psychology at the Government Arts College
Coimbatore said that they can conduct such tests free of cost.

Though even those who are working can take the test to decide on a career
change, he says they should be ideally taken after passing class 10 as one has
to choose a stream after this. Anyone interested in taking the test can book an
appointment with Selvaraj at 9442766594.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Brisbane News (Australia)

                           October 14, 2009 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

CLAYFIELD COLLEGE

SECTION: BRISBANE NEWS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 163 words


Opportunities abound at Clayfield College. Choosing the right school for your
childs education is one of the most important decisions a parent can make, as it
will have ramifications for the childs future. Clayfield College has a proud
tradition and record for academic excellence. It offers wide-ranging
extra-curricular programs, exceptional pastoral care and leadership programs, as
well as outstanding community service programs. Clayfield College caters for
girls from pre-prep to Year 12 and for boys from pre-prep to Year 5. The college
is introducing middle schooling for Years 6-9, which promises an innovative
approach to education.

With such a range of opportunities available to the students to be successful,
it is no wonder that parents are choosing Clayfield College as the school for
their children. For more information about a Clayfield College education,
contact the director of marketing and enrolments

23 GREGORY ST, CLAYFIELD

PH: 3262 0220

WWW.CLAYFIELD.QLD.EDU.AU

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: BNM


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                           November 17, 2009 Tuesday

The American Dream

LENGTH: 456  words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, Nov. 17 -- Nepali students are increasingly flocking towards the
U.S., according to data released by the U.S. Department of State's Bureau of
Educational and Cultural Affairs. According to the data, there has been a 30
percent hike in the number of Nepali students studying in the U.S. in 2009, the
second-highest jump among all countries after Vietnam, whose students grew by 41
percent.

And that is not all. Nepal currently holds the 11th place for leading places of
origin amongst foreign students in the U.S., accounting for 11,581 students
currently enrolled. Though it is still way behind India, the leading country of
origin with 103,260 students, Nepal sends more students to the U.S. than
countries like Russia, Pakistan, France, the U.K., or Germany.

The data also states that the number of international students in the U.S. is at
an all-time high of 671,616, highlighting the country's importance in higher
education on a global basis.

"I am delighted to see a large increase in the number of international students
who are choosing to study in the U.S.," said Judith A. McHale, Under Secretary
of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs.

Better education facilities seem to be the key for the massive growth in the
number of Nepali students going to the U.S. Raj Keshab Rauniyar, managing
director of American Education Consultancy, said that the U.S. has always been a
favoured destination for Nepali students. "A more practical education and
universally-accepted degrees are other important factors," Rauniyar said.

Birendra Shrestha, managing director of Einstein International, an educational
consultancy, said better economic opportunities in the U.S. are an equally
important factor. Shrestha said, "The U.S. is a leading power in the world
economy. If a student gets good grades while studying there, the student can
immediately find a job in any private company." Publicity accounts for a great
deal as well, Shrestha added.

In choosing college destinations, Nepali students are also seen as giving
priority to college fees above the reputation and quality of the college. "There
are many reputed colleges in U.S., such as MIT, but Nepali students generally
choose a college that is affordable and allows them to work as well," Shrestha
said.

Uttam Prasad Pant, president of Educational Consultants Association of Nepal,
also agreed that cost and available courses were two important elements in the
equation. Regarding the destination, Pant says, "Students usually tend to select
states where they already have relatives or friends studying." Published by HT
Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For more information on news
feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                 Copyright 2009 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                           November 9, 2000 Thursday

Swiss ambassador speaks in Springfield

BYLINE: FRANK FUHRIG STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 796 words


The U.S. Constitution established what is now the world's oldest federal system,
delegating specific powers to a central government.

The Electoral College for choosing the U.S. president - now the focus of news
worldwide - is one example of the states' role in U.S. federalism.

The world's second-oldest federal system is the Swiss Confederation, a republic
nestled in the Alps between France, Germany, Austria and Italy.

Alfred Defago, the Swiss ambassador to the United States, spoke Wednesday to a
luncheon meeting at Springfield's Sangamo Club, just hours after vote totals in
Florida left the U.S. presidency in limbo.

He predicted that any change in the Electoral College would be difficult,
requiring 38 states to approve a constitutional amendment.

"America is a very conservative nation," said Defago. "Changes are not easily
made in this country."

While some foreign observers are mystified that the popular vote is not
decisive, the U.S. system has many familiar elements to the Swiss, said Defago.

"Our constitution from 1848 is actually almost a copy of the Constitution of the
United States from 1787," he said.

The Swiss constitution was revised in 1874 but retains many basic structures in
common with the United States.

For example, Switzerland has 26 cantons, or autonomous regions, that, like
American states, retain all powers not specifically delegated to the federal
government. The nation has a bicameral Federal Assembly; lower house members are
directly elected, while each canton elects two members to an upper house similar
to the U.S. Senate.

The American federal system emerged partially as a compromise to guard the
interests of small states while recognizing the stature of large states. In
Switzerland, federal government protects both individual cantons and the
nation's ethnic groups.

The U.S. Electoral College tends to preserve the power of various regions in
choosing the president. In Switzerland, the executive branch rests with a
seven-member Federal Council, a board selected by the legislature with
presidency that rotates every year.

"That's typically Swiss," said Defago, "because it's a composition of very
different cultural minorities at the crossroads of three different, great
cultures - German, French and Italian."

He noted that the Swiss constitution is equipped with other "interesting safety
belts."

For example, changing the Swiss constitution requires that an initiative receive
not only a majority of the nationwide popular vote but also that it carry more
than 50 percent of the vote in a majority of the cantons.

Swiss democracy has a tradition of direct voting on issues both in cantons -
similar to state referendums - and at the national level.

"In our political system, the people have the last say, and that makes it very
difficult sometimes to govern," he said. "Everything has to be ratified by the
people."

As a result, some changes come slowly in Switzerland. Women received the right
to vote in national elections and hold federal offices only in 1971.

"There's an old saying, but I think it's true. The Swiss get up early, but wake
up late," said Defago.

Switzerland has barely a quarter the surface area of Illinois with a population
of 7.1 million, and its ethnic diversity is increasing.

Twenty percent of the people living in Switzerland are citizens of other
countries, the highest percentage in Europe. Immigrants from war-torn former
Yugoslavia make up more than a third of those immigrants, or 7 percent of
Switzerland's population.

A referendum to limit foreigners to 18 percent of the population was recently
defeated.

Another looming decision for Switzerland, which has a 300-year tradition of
neutrality, is membership in the European Union that envelops the landlocked
nation.

Defago said that it could be seven to 10 years before Switzerland joins the
European Union, though current government policy is moving in that direction. EU
membership would require the politically difficult direct approval of Swiss
voters.

"I think in the long run we should really, seriously, be talking about joining
the EU," said Defago. "The institution of direct democracy makes it extremely
difficult for the Swiss to accept Europe, (unless) they can preserve their
system of direct democracy."

Switzerland is one of the richest and most prosperous countries in Europe, with
one of the world's lowest unemployment rates, 1.7 percent, despite high
immigration. As a result, Switzerland would find itself subsidizing other EU
members, such as Greece and Portugal.

"Taxes will go up dramatically (with EU membership)." said Defago. "We have
first to convince people that they want to pay higher taxes."

Defago's Springfield address will be telecast on WSEC 14/65 at 8 p.m. Friday and
4:30 and 10:30 p.m. Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Defago

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2000 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Daily Gazette (Sterling, Illinois)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 20, 2012 Thursday

Prep sports: Amboy's Ikens choosing between football, baseball

BYLINE: Brian Weidman, Daily Gazette, Sterling, Ill.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 476 words


Dec. 20--Amboy football coach Gary Jones considered Taylor Ikens like another
coach on the field, entrusting him with calling the Clippers' defensive signals.

Amboy baseball coach Chris Newsome called Ikens his team's bulldog, for his
tenaciousness when it comes to game preparation or the games themselves.

Those qualities would serve Ikens well if chooses to play sports in college. But
which school, and which sport?

The 6-foot, 190-pounder has had some contact with Aurora, North Central,
Benedictine and Wartburg for both sports. He's visited Aurora, while visits to
the other places are in the works.

Illinois State, for football-only, is another possibility.

"I feel like I have so much weight on my shoulders, looking at schools and
trying to get this done with," Ikens said.

Ikens was Amboy's leading tackler this season with 206 tackles, including 45
solos. He also contributed two sacks, two fumble recoveries and one
interception.

Jones, in addition to having him call defensive signals, noted Ikens has other
good qualities common among linebackers. He's reads defenses well, is a good
tackler and plays downhill, meaning he doesn't get pushed back by opposing
offenses.

What he'll need to work on, according to Jones, is getting physically ready.

"If he wants to play football at the next level, just like any kid coming out of
high school, he's going to have to get bigger," Jones said. "It's a bigger,
stronger, faster-type thing if you want to play at the next level. He does do an
excellent job in the weight room, and he has throughout high school."

Ikens is part of a posse of current and former Clippers who can be found in the
weight room virtually every day after school. He's added 5 pounds of muscle
since the season ended.

"I've got to focus on my weight training more so I can get bigger," Ikens said,
"because all those college athletes are big already. The speed level there is
really intense."

Ikens will enter the baseball season as one of the team's top two pitchers,
along with fellow senior Tyson Powers. Ikens tossed 45 2/3 innings in 2012,
amassing a 3-3 record and a 4.60 earned-run average.

When not pitching, Ikens played third base, the position he envisions himself
playing in college, if he goes the baseball route. He batted .317 (20-for-63)
with seven doubles and 15 runs batted in.

"He does not want to come out [of the game] no matter what, and that's in
football, that's in the weight room, that's in anything athletically," Newsome
said. "He's just a hard worker."

Ikens file

School: Amboy

Class: Senior

FYI: Football and baseball standout for Clippers. ... Led 9-3 football team in
tackles this past season with 206. ... Choosing between football and baseball to
play in college

___ (c)2012 the Daily Gazette (Sterling, Ill.) Visit the Daily Gazette
(Sterling, Ill.) at www.saukvalley.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121220-YG-Prep-sports-Amboy-s-Ikens-choosing
-between-football-baseball-1220-20121220

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YG


                          Copyright 2012 Daily Gazette

                              493 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                           September 11, 2011 Sunday

KYUEM paves way to top-notch universities

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 520 words


DECIDING on a university in a foreign country where students will spend at least
three significant years of their lives is an important task.

At KYUEM, 95 per cent or more will pursue their studies overseas upon completion
of their A-Levels in June every year. While a majority of their students go to
some of the most prestigious universities in the United Kingdom, they also have
a small number flying to top-notch universities in the United States, Australia,
Ireland and New Zealand.

To help them gain entry, KYUEM helps them in their quest to gain the strongest
possible results in their A-level exams. The recent June 2011 examination
results were outstanding, just under 81 per cent of all grades awarded were at
A* A and B. This represents a very high level of achievement by all students.

Of all grades gained, 23.7 per cent were at A*, while 58.3 per cent were at A*
and A. Some students' results were spectacularly good, where 28 students (13.1
per cent of the total entry this year at KYUEM) gained four A grades or better.
Also, 92 students (43.2 per cent) gained three A grades or better.

The UK, US, Australia and Ireland have some of the best universities in the
world. There is a huge choice and each has its own ethos and atmosphere.

Without proper guidance, choosing a university overseas can be extremely
stressful. At KYUEM students are guided step by step right from choosing
suitable university options to completing the application forms.

Presentations, workshops, mock interviews and forums are organised to get
students to start their research work, choose universities and write the
personal statement - a vital part of the application form. A dedicated team,
comprising the counsellor, tutors teachers and the headmaster, assists students
in the counselling process.

Special attention is given to interview techniques for those applying to read
medicine and to universities like Oxford and Cambridge where the interview is a
compulsory part of the selection process.

KYUEM students are lucky enough to get first-hand information from senior
academics and university admissions tutors from universities like Oxford,
Cambridge, Imperial College, University of Newcastle, University College London
and London School of Economics and from renowned universities in Australia and
New Zealand who visit the college regularly.

Since its establishment in 1998 the college has achieved an over 80 per cent
success rate each year in placing students in top-notch UK universities and the
Irish Universities Medical Consortium.

Among the popular university choices with students are Oxford, Cambridge,
Imperial College, the London School of Economics, University College London, the
University of Warwick, King's College London, the University of Newcastle, the
University of Birmingham, and Bristol, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Southampton,
Manchester, Sheffield, and Nottingham Universities, the Medical Consortium of
Irish Universities and other well-known seats of learning in the UK, Australia
and the US.

KYUEM is now recruiting for their January 2012 intake. For more information,
call 03-64601234 for appointment.

( END )

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Excellence in education

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                          September 19, 2007 Wednesday

More teens continuing studies

BYLINE: Simon Doyle, Education Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 426 words


Almost half of all teenagers who continue studying beyond the age of 16 are
choosing further education colleges or vocational training ahead of traditional
schooling, new statistics reveal.

Thousands of 16-year-olds are now opting for college or work-based training
programmes instead of classroom tuition, although school remains the most
popular choice.

There has also been a significant rise in the number of teenagers pursuing some
form of learning after they reach the end of compulsory education.

Figures published by the Department of Education and Department for Employment
and Learning show that 92 per cent of 16 and 17-year-olds participated in
full-time education or vocational training last year.

This is much higher than the participation rate in England, which is just 78.2
per cent.

The total percentage of teenagers continuing to take part in education and
training has been increasing steadily for the past five years. Last year's total
saw an increase on the 2005/06 figure of 86.6 per cent.

This rise in teens remaining in education coincides with an increase in the
number of pupils eligible to receive Educational Maintenance Allowance payments.

The 'earn as you learn' scheme, which pays pupils up to £30 a week, was designed
to reduce drop-out rates. Those aged 16, 17 and 18 are now all eligible.

More than £20 million was paid out in EMAs during the 2006/07 academic year,
with about 16,000 students receiving payments.

The participation rate for 16-year-olds last year - 94.9 per cent - was higher
than for 17-year-olds - 89.1 per cent.

The rate for female 16-year-olds was 98.8 per cent and for female 17-year-olds
94.7 per cent. The rate for males aged 16 and 17 was 91.1 and 83.8 per cent
respectively.

Almost 57 per cent of 16-year-olds in full-time education or vocational training
attended schools, the statistics showed.

Almost one quarter instead chose further education colleges' mainstream courses
and a fifth attended Jobskills training programmes.

John D'Arcy, chief executive of the Association of Northern Ireland Colleges
(ANIC), said he was encouraged by the new statistics.

"ANIC is delighted that so many 16 and 17-year-olds are choosing FE (further
education) as their preferred option," he said.

"FE offers the widest variety of courses at various levels and more and more
young people are choosing courses which actually suit their educational needs
and abilities.

"Thanks to a renewed interest in vocational careers, FE is now being seen as an
alternative route to employment or to university and not the fall back option."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                              May 6, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

MULCAHY;
KIRSTY BLAKE KNOX

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 553 words


RUGBY stars Fergus McFadden and Rob Kearney made such a dashing pair when they
attended the 2013 Leinster Rugby Awards Ball together. "He's my plus one," Rob
said at the time.

But Ferg ditched the full back this weekend, choosing to rock up the Mansion
House with his brand new beau - the delightfully named Rebecca Sinnamon -
instead (pictured below).

Miss Sinnamon is a jazz loving singer whose husky vocals made quite the
impression on Fergus. Rob didn't seem too upset to have lost his former wingman,
however, and spent the night posing for pictures with adoring female fans and
alakadoos.

LOOKS like bolshy scrapper Linda Martin will have to eat her words.

Earlier this year, the grand dame of the Eurovision claimed the introduction of
the public vote had resulted in nothing but tactical voting against former
winners.

But a new study of voting patterns, led by Dr Gianluca Baio Professor of
Statistical Science at University College London, says this is simply not the
case.

"Many viewers blame Ireland's poor performance on tactical voting," he said.
"But that's a scapegoat. Migration patterns influence votes but when push comes
to shove it's about the song.

"Maybe more time should be spent choosing the talent and less time making up
elaborate excuses."

Take that, Linds.

DRUM roll please. TV3 bosses are holding a preemptive autumn launch in the
Shelbourne Hotel this Wednesday to unveil the name of their home grown soap
opera.

The soap will be based in a small fishing village on the coast of Ireland -
which is "an ideal setting for plenty of drama" according to TV3''s press
office.

"Harbours are real melting pots," a spokesperson for the station said. "You find
such an eclectic crowd hanging around ports."

You don't say.

WHAT'S in a name? The owners of Irish pub 'The Craic House' in Birmingham have
decided to rename their fine establishment after realising it "sounded like a
drug den".

The watering hole has now been christened "Woodman Corner" to avoid locals
making jibes. "We had a lot of stick," owner Steven Flood told the 'Birmingham
Mail'.

"It will be nice to answer the phone and say 'Woodman Corner' instead of the
'Craic House' because that sounded like a drug den, it wasn't the impression we
were trying to give."

THERE are shed loads of commemorative celebrations taking place this year for
that archetypal Dubliner, and decent aul'' skin, Brendan Behan.

A blue 60c stamp was launched by An Post earlier this year, and powerhouse
producer, Caroline Downey - the woman who brought us Jedward''s 'Lipstick' -
plans on staging Behan's best known work 'Borstal Boy' at the Gaiety.

"He is one of my favourite writers," she said. "It's a big play and a big
project but I'm very excited about it."

But Behan didn't always have such devoted fans. Before he started writing plays,
he worked as a lighthouse painter in the Six Counties.

And he was not exactly a model employee. "Behan is by far the worst specimen I
have met in 30 years service," his boss wrote about him back in 1950.

"The spare house which was clean and ready for painters has been turned into a
filthy shambles inside a week. His language is filthy and he is not amenable to
any law or order."

"  Still, if he'd been any better, Brendan might have been given a permanent and
pensionable post - and Caroline would be looking for another project.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                             July 18, 2017 Tuesday

Small diet changes may prolong life: study

LENGTH: 344  words


It's hard to eat right all the time, but making small improvements by choosing
healthier foods now and then may significantly boost one's chances of living
longer, says a US study.

Study finds that consuming more whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and fatty fish
may boost one's chances of living longer. [Photo provided to China Daily]

It's hard to eat right all the time, but making small improvements by choosing
healthier foods now and then may significantly boost one's chances of living
longer, says a US study.

The report in the New England Journal of Medicine is the first to show that
improving diet quality over at least a dozen years is associated with lower
total and cardiovascular mortality.

Researchers at Harvard University tracked dietary changes in a population of
nearly 74,000 health professionals who logged their eating habits every four
years.

Researchers used a system of diet-quality scores to assess how much diets had
improved.

For instance, a 20-percentile increase in scores could "be achieved by swapping
out just one serving of red or processed meat for one daily serving of nuts or
legumes," says a summary of the research.

Over the 12-year span, those who ate a little better than they did at the
start[#xff0d]primarily by consuming more whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and
fatty fish[#xff0d]saw an eight to 17 percent lower risk of dying prematurely in
the next 12 years.

Those whose diets got worse over time saw a higher risk of dying in the next 12
years of follow-up, on the order of a six to 12 percent increase.

"Our results highlight the long-term health benefits of improving diet quality
with an emphasis on overall dietary patterns rather than on individual foods or
nutrients," says senior author Frank Hu, professor and chair of the Harvard Chan
School Department of Nutrition.

"A healthy eating pattern can be adopted according to individuals' food and
cultural preferences and health conditions," he adds.

"There is no one-size-fits-all diet."

Agence France-Presse

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/1/150033880714.jpg

b083fe96faac1ad7932c0f.jpg

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2017 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 20, 2015 Tuesday

South Carolina: Is Chiropractic a Good Career Choice? 5 Reasons to Join the
Profession

LENGTH: 659 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Columbia: Sherman College of Chiropractic, The State of South Carolina has
issued the following news release:



 More and more, people are recognizing what a great option a career in
chiropractic can be. Careercast ranked being a chiropractor as the 11th best job
in a 2013 study, rating it highly in terms of work environment, hiring outlook
and overall quality of life.





 Deciding to embark on a new career path is an important decision in a person's
life. Choosing a career that matches your personal values, financial goals and
desired quality of life is something you must take time considering. Sherman
College 2011 alumnus Dr. Holly Clarke said, &ldquo;It is important for a student
that is contemplating choosing chiropractic to be sure that they are making the
right choice for themselves. Take everything that you possibly can from the
experience so that you have a good understanding of what chiropractic truly
is.&rdquo;



 Read on to discover 5 of the best reasons why a career in chiropractic is a
rewarding choice.

 1.    Chiropractors Can Choose Their Own Paths



 Because chiropractors take a natural, preventative approach to healthcare, its
benefits can help patients enjoy a greater potential for health and optimal
human performance.. Graduates beginning a new career in chiropractic will find a
wide range of options available to them in their careers.



 Doctors of chiropractic can opt for private practice, or choose to work as part
of a wellness center team. There is also a high demand for chiropractic care in
certain professions such as sports and fitness, or amongst musicians and
performers, so graduates have a chance to work in areas they are passionate
about. Some even work with animals, where the benefits of chiropractic have been
applied to horses, dogs and more.

 2.    Chiropractors Can Be Their Own Bosses



 As a chiropractor, you have the opportunity to work on your own terms.
According to statistics published by the US Department of Labor in 2012, 37% of
chiropractors are self-employed. Doctors of chiropractic who establish their
independent practices may set their own hours and business practices wherever
they choose to work, whether in the country or internationally.

 3.    Demand for Expertly Trained Chiropractors is Growing



 Patients today are becoming increasingly concerned about invasive procedures
and the side effects involved. As a result, demand for more holistic,
preventative approaches to healthcare are on the rise. Students enrolling in
chiropractor training may now expect very good job prospects when they graduate,
with the Bureau of Labor Statistics projecting faster than average growth in the
profession.



 new career in chiropractic

 4.    A Career in Chiropractic Promotes Natural, Healthy Living



 Chiropractors work to remove subluxations in the vertebrae of the spine. These
subluxations disrupt nerve flow and interfere with the body's natural capacity
to heal itself. Chiropractic is a holistic, preventative approach to healthcare
which addresses the root cause. A career in chiropractic enables you to help
patients restore their bodies' optimal functionality, changing their lives for
the better.

 5.    A Chiropractic Career Provides Good Job Satisfaction



 Considering the many things that make chiropractic a good career choice, it is
no surprise that it rates highly when it comes to job satisfaction. Payscale
recently ranked the profession at number seven in a list of 'Best Jobs for
Do-Gooders.' Chiropractors get the opportunity to give something back to their
community, promoting health and well-being while making a positive difference in
people's lives. And with competitive salaries and growing job prospects, a
career in chiropractic is a good practical choice for anyone looking to make
helping others their business.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           February 12, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cardinals will be locked away to reach a decision;
CONCLAVE

BYLINE: Alex Spillius

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 341 words


THE arcane process of choosing a successor to Pope Benedict XVI will quickly
follow his official departure from office on Feb 28, and the world will soon
find itself focusing on the chimney of the Sistine Chapel.

The College of Cardinals, which currently has 117 members, will convene within
the walls of the Vatican Chapel for a centuries-old ritual known as a conclave.

They will be alone except for servants, emergency medical staff and, on one
previous occasion, an Italian journalist disguised as a servant attempting to
leak news to the world.

The cardinals eat, vote and sleep within sealed areas until they have selected a
new pope. No contact is allowed with the outside world. The threat of
excommunication hangs over anyone tempted to break the vow of silence.

Unusually, there will be no representative of England and Wales this time.
Vincent Nichols, who became Archbishop of Westminster in 2009, has not been made
a cardinal.

Any baptised Roman Catholic male is eligible for election, but since 1378 only
cardinals have been selected.

The process can take days. A handful of candidates will preach at Mass to the
college.

A lengthy debate is likely in choosing Pope Benedict's successor, given the
surprise of his resignation.

Two ballots are held each morning and two each afternoon for up to three days
until a two-thirds majority is reached.

The cardinals write their choice on a ballot paper and place it in an urn. The
votes are added up by scrutineers, and, if there are no irregularities, the
result is recorded and the ballot papers burned.

If the colour of the smoke billowing from the chapel's stovepipe is white, then
a new pope has been chosen. If it is dark, then there has to be another vote.
Previously, damp straw was used to darken the smoke. Since 1963, a liquid dye
has been used.

The conclave has been the procedure for choosing the pope since 1417, and is the
oldest ongoing method for choosing the leader of any major institution. There
has been no significant challenge to a decision by the conclave.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                             June 5, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Moving beyond crude system will create self-directed students and aid recovery

BYLINE: JASON WARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 431 words


Today, Leaving Certificate students start their exams with most of them aiming
to get enough points to go to college.

For many, it is a stressful time, and expectations will be high, particularly
since the points system is a crude measure of student ability. However, under
new government plans, this is about to change.

The Government's reform agenda in education is sweeping and timely. From the
perspective of a multinational such as EMC, the reforms have a bearing on the
type and quality of graduates who will emerge in three or four years to take up
jobs in the information technology (IT) sector.

In reforming the pointsbased model for college entry, the Government has
recognised that students have become exponents of total recall, better at
learning by rote than thinking critically.

There are other initiatives, such as Project Maths, the curricular reform plan
that teaches 'real-life' maths, now rolling through junior and senior cycle. It
will be some time before we know whether Project Maths is working but, if it is,
we should move immediately to migrate the plan to primary schools.

In its recent report on the transition from second level to higher education,
the Government committed to reducing the number of Level 8 (honours degree)
programmes and making them more broadly based.

This is an acknowledgment that our colleges can produce over-specialised
programmes, when they should be giving students the freedom to explore
interdisciplinary courses and then figure out their strengths.

The recent spike in the number of students choosing IT-related college courses
is encouraging. So, too, is the rise in students choosing higher-level maths.
But, in driving more students into these programmes, we must at the same time
ensure that they are properly calibrated for emerging jobs.

For example, analysts estimate that, by 2015, there will be 4.4 million IT jobs
globally supporting big data analytics. But, to fill these jobs, we will need
more tailored big-data college programmes that draw together strands across
maths, computing, science and sociology.

This fusion of previously silo-based disciplines is key to producing graduates
with the breadth of skills and knowledge needed for a sophisticated economy.

The push for junior and senior cycle reform, with an emphasis on creating
selfdirected students, is important for our recovery. As employers, we want to
partner with Government and educators to help shape a responsive curriculum.

Together, we can all help create new opportunities for the class of 2013.

Jason Ward is EMC's Director for Ireland, Scotland and UK North

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2013 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                              June 15, 2008 Sunday

KYUEM's guide to top varsities

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 346 words


KYUEM places importance on helping its students gain entry into the university
of their choice.

Deciding on a university in a foreign country where students will spend at least
three significant years is important.

At KYUEM, 95 per cent or more will pursue their studies overseas upon completion
of their A-Levels in June every year.

It gets them thinking about universities and courses at least a year ahead.

While a majority of students go to some of the best and most prestigious
universities in Britain and Ireland, a small number head to top-notch
universities in Australia, New Zealand and the United States.

Britain, the US and Australia have some of the best universities in the world.

There is a huge choice and each has its own ethos and atmosphere.

Some are small and have a very strong corporate or brand identity; others are
large with complete facilities and offer a rich variety of different cultural
experiences.

Some, such as Oxford and Cambridge, consist of individual colleges, each with
its own atmosphere.

A student will have to choose from hundreds of courses that differ in content,
style and teaching methods.

It is tempting to apply to what may be regarded as the best universities, but it
is important to consider some practical issues.

London, for example, is an exciting but expensive place.

Most universities, however, provide accommodation for international students for
the first year at least.

Without proper guidance, choosing a university overseas can be extremely
stressful.

KYUEM guides students step by step, from choosing suitable university options to
completing application forms.

The universities popular with students are Oxford, Cambridge, Imperial College,
London School of Economics, University College, King's College, University of
Newcastle, University of Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Southampton,
Warwick, Manchester, Sheffield, Nottingham, and the Irish Universities of
Medical Consortium.

The next intake starts on July 15.

For information, call student services at 03-64601234 for appointment.
Alternatively, visit www.kyuem.edu.my

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved

                              501 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                          September 12, 2015 Saturday
                                  Main Edition

Fulton schools seek new updates to sex ed

BYLINE: Rose French; Staff

SECTION: METRO NEWS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 566 words



HIGHLIGHT: District leaders want to include up-to-date stats.


Fulton County school board members are looking to update the district's sex
education curriculum.

School district leaders have proposed changes that would include the most
up-to-date statistical information on sex-related topics. The changes would also
include newer photos, videos and other visual aides.

Fulton fifth-graders cover "Human Growth & Development," which includes two
gender-specific videos "built on a comprehensive approach that focuses on growth
and development, including puberty and anatomy of the male and female
reproductive systems," according to Fulton school officials.

The sex ed curriculum for sixth-12th graders is called "Choosing the Best,"
which Fulton officials describe as a "comprehensive, evidence-based,
abstinence-centered instructional program" designed to expose students to sex
education "through a risk avoidance approach."

Parents have until Sept. 21 to provide feedback on the proposed changes. Fulton
school board members could vote on the changes in October.

School system leaders are not presenting details of the proposed changes via the
district's website. Instead, print and digital resources will be displayed for
public review at 13 schools and other sites across the district. Parents,
teachers and other interested parties can submit input via surveys.

"Choosing the Best" focuses on teaching students to abstain from sex until
marriage. It has been criticized nationally and locally by advocates of
comprehensive sex education. They say its approach to contraception and
prevention could discourage students who do decide to have sex from protecting
themselves from pregnancy and diseases.

Nearly a decade ago, a group of DeKalb County parents protested the use of "
Choosing the Best," and the district dropped the curriculum. Fulton adopted the
"Choosing the Best" sex ed curriculum in 2001.

Tasha Guadalupe, health and physical education coordinator for Fulton schools,
said as part of the "Choosing the Best" curriculum "contraceptives are
mentioned. It's not something we're showing them how to use or anything of that
nature. It's simply mentioned, basically for what's out there. But it's still
that abstinence-centered approach."

"The state of Georgia requires us to cover human sexuality and HIV AIDs
prevention. Each (school) district is different in how they want to adopt it. In
Fulton, we have an abstinence-centered approach and everything is geared toward
abstinence ... We promote abstaining from sex until marriage."

Proposed changes to Fulton County schools' sex education curriculum will be on
display for public review through Sept. 21 at the following locations:

North Fulton

Administrative Center (6201 Powers Ferry Road, NW, Atlanta, GA 30339)

Crabapple Crossing ES (12775 Birmingham Highway, Milton 30004)

Northridge Learning Center (450 Northridge Parkway, Sandy Springs, GA 30350)

Creekview ES (3995 Webb Bridge Road, Alpharetta 30005)

Hillside ES (9250 Scott Road, Roswell 30076)

Wilson Creek ES (6115 Wilson Road, Johns Creek 30097)

Sweet Apple ES (12025 Etris Road, Roswell 30075)

South Fulton

Asa G. Hilliard ES (3353 Mount Olive Road., East Point, GA 30344)

Feldwood ES (5790 Feldwood Road, College Park, GA 30349)

Tri-Cities HS (2575 Harris Street, East Point, GA 30344)

Sandtown MS (5400 Campbellton Road, Atlanta 30331)

E. C. West ES (7040 Rivertown Road, Fairburn 30213)

Stonewall Tell ES (3310 Stonewall Tell Road, College Park 30349)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2015 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              502 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Blade (Toledo, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 17, 2008 Thursday

Gray Wolf provides new identity for Lourdes at 50

BYLINE: Meghan Gilbert, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 593 words


Jan. 17--Lourdes College students assumed a new identity yesterday.

No longer are they simply students. They are now Gray Wolves.

The mascot was unveiled during the dedication ceremony of the new student center
in Delp Hall.

"It creates a sense of identity," said Lisa Binkowski, director of student
activities and recreation at the college. "This is who I am. This is me coming
home. I am a Gray Wolf."

Students, faculty, staff, and alumni were asked what the new symbol of Lourdes
should be as it celebrates its 50th anniversary this school year.

The pillars and arch that accompany the college name are formal, Ms. Binkowski
said. When she joined the college a little over two years ago, she thought it
could use a mascot to which everyone could relate.

It appears the rest of the college agreed.

Nearly 1,000 votes came in this fall, with 36 percent choosing the Gray Wolf.
That beat out suggestions such as the monarch butterflies, comets, and Lourdes
lightning.

The wolf is part of the Franciscan tradition, in which Lourdes is rooted. The
story of St. Francis of Assisi and the wolf of Gubbio tells of the meaning of
community, an important aspect of life on campus, Lourdes President Bob Helmer
said.

"We take that sense of community seriously," he said.

The broad involvement in choosing the school mascot shows that, Mr. Helmer said,
"That's how we do it here."

After the Gray Wolf was selected, campus artists were summoned to develop a
design.

The college's new logo has a profile of the head of a Gray Wolf with the word
"Lourdes" above it and "Gray Wolves" below in a terra cotta circle.

The school's colors are terra cotta and black.

Art student Luke Ellison's depiction of the wolf was chosen by the mascot
committee out of more than 50 submissions.

"I love this school and thought it would be sweet to be part of something like
this," said Mr. Ellison, 27, of South Toledo, who is in his second semester at
Lourdes.

It took a few dozen drafts to get there, but Mr. Ellison said he's proud of the
finished product.

"I thought, keep it simple," he said.

Yesterday's event was all about the students as the mascot unveiling, which drew
loud applause from a crowd of a few hundred, was included in the dedication of
the new Ebeid Student Center in the lower level of Delp Hall.

Named for Russell J. Ebeid, who gave a gift of $250,000 to the college, the
center is the first dedicated space on campus specifically for students. There's
a pool table, Ping-Pong table, stage for poetry readings and small acoustic
music events, lounge chairs, and offices for student groups.

Mr. Ebeid is the president of Guardian Industries Glass Group.

His granddaughter recently graduated from Lourdes and he said the atmosphere on
campus reminded him of his parochial school days.

"I identified with it quickly even though I never went here," he said. "I've
always been interested in education and I want to encourage it."

Mr. Ebeid said the student center, which he hopes will be part of a legacy for
his family, is "pretty slick" and he's glad students now have their place on
campus.

"It's got everything," he said.

Contact Meghan Gilbert at: mgilbert@theblade.com or 419-724-6134.

To see more of The Blade, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.toledoblade.com. Copyright (c) 2008, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080117-TO-Gray-Wolf-provides-new-identity-for-Lourdes-at-50-0117

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TO


                            Copyright 2008 The Blade


                              503 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             June 16, 2015 Tuesday

West Virginia: Davis & Elkins Awards Highlands Scholarships to TVHS Students

LENGTH: 258  words

DATELINE: Charleston


Davis & Elkins College, The state of West Virginia has issued the following news
release:

Tygarts Valley High School seniors are congratulated by Davis & Elkins College
Admission Counselor Adam Kota on receiving the Highlands Scholarship. From left
are, Ashley Arbogast, Sara Borofsky, Tiffany Fincham, Kota, Madelyn McCauley,
Ridgely Williams, Ashley Cunningham, Leeza Dilley, Jace McCauley, Scott Tacy,
Elizabeth Wood and Falicity Wallace. Also receiving Highlands Scholarships but
not present for the awards ceremony are Morgan Arbogast and Carl Pridemore.
Initiated with the start of the 2008-2009 academic year, the Highlands Scholar
program offers a significant tuition discount to full-time freshman students
attending Davis & Elkins College from the seven counties surrounding the campus.
This year the program was expanded to include all 55 West Virginia counties.
Students must earn a cumulative GPA of 2.5 or higher upon high school
graduation. Those students receive $14,000 if choosing to live on campus or
$11,000 if choosing to commute for a total four-year scholarship of $56,000 for
on campus or $44,000 for commuters. For more information about the Highlands
Scholar program, contact the Office of Admission at 304-637-1230. The fall 2015
semester begins August 21 with the arrival of new students and the kickoff of
Orientation Weekend. Fall classes begin August 24. For more information, please
visit www.dewv.edu.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              504 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      April 4, 2012 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

ABIM: U.S. Physician Groups Identify Commonly Used Tests or Procedures They Say
are Often Not Necessary

LENGTH: 1292  words


New Delhi, April 4 -- Nine leading physician specialty societies have identified
specific tests or procedures that they say are commonly used but not always
necessary in their respective fields. Patient advocates are calling the move a
significant step toward improving the quality and safety of health care.

To be released at a press conference later this morning as part of the ABIM
Foundation's Choosing Wisely campaign, the lists of "Five Things Physicians and
Patients Should Question" provide specific, evidence-based recommendations
physicians and patients should discuss to help make wise decisions about the
most appropriate care based on their individual situation.

The lists include things to question such as:

* Do patients need brain imaging scans like a computed tomography (CT) or
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) after fainting, also known as simple syncope?
Probably not. Research has shown that, with no evidence of seizure or other
neurologic symptoms during an exam, patient outcomes are not improved with brain
imaging studies. (American College of Physicians)

* Do patients need stress imaging tests for annual checkups? Not if you are an
otherwise healthy adult without cardiac symptoms. These tests rarely result in
any meaningful change in patient management. (American College of Cardiology)

* Should patients going into outpatient surgery receive a chest x-ray
beforehand? If the patient has an unremarkable history and physical exam, then
no. Most of the time these images will not result in a change in management and
has not been shown to improve patient outcomes. (American College of Radiology)

* Do patients need a CT scan or antibiotics for chronic sinusitis? Most acute
rhinosinusitis resolves without treatment in two weeks and when uncomplicated is
generally diagnosed clinically and does not require a sinus CT scan or other
imaging. (American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology)

* Should dialysis patients who have limited life expectancies and no signs or
symptoms of cancer get routine cancer screening tests? These tests do not
improve survival in dialysis patients with limited life expectancies, and can
cause false positives which might lead to harm, over treatment and unnecessary
stress. (American Society of Nephrology)

* Should women under 65 or men under 70 be screened for osteoporosis with dual
energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA)? No, research has shown that in patients with
no risk factors DEXA screening is not helpful in this age group. (American
Academy of Family Physicians)

The complete lists from the specialty societies, available at
www.ChoosingWisely.org, include additional detail and evidentiary information
communicating when a particular test or treatment may be appropriate based on
clinical evidence and guidelines.

The nine organizations releasing lists as part of Choosing Wisely represent
nearly 375,000 physicians:

* American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology

* American Academy of Family Physicians

* American College of Cardiology

* American College of Physicians

* American College of Radiology

* American Gastroenterological Association

* American Society of Clinical Oncology

* American Society of Nephrology

* American Society of Nuclear Cardiology

"Today these societies have shown tremendous leadership in starting a long
overdue and important conversation between physicians and patients about what
care is really needed," said Christine K. Cassel, M.D., president and CEO of the
ABIM Foundation. "Physicians, working together with patients, can help ensure
the right care is delivered at the right time for the right patient. We hope the
lists released today kick off important conversations between patients and their
physicians to help them choose wisely about their health care."

Consumer Reports (CR) - the world's largest independent product-testing
organization - is working with the ABIM Foundation and the specialty societies
to lead the effort. At today's press conference, Consumer Reports announced
eleven consumer-oriented organizations joining Choosing Wisely to help
disseminate information and educate patients on making wise decisions. Each of
these organizations has the potential to reach at least 1 million consumers.

Those organizations include:

* AARP

* Alliance Health Networks

* Leapfrog Group

* Midwest Business Group on Health

* National Business Coalition on Health

* National Business Group on Health

* National Center for Farmworker Health

* National Partnership for Women & Families

* Pacific Business Group on Health

* SEIU

* Wikipedia community (through a dedicated Wikipedian in Residence)

A 2010 survey of Consumer Reports readers - nearly 1,200 healthy 40- to
60-year-old men and women, with no known heart disease, risk factors or symptoms
- showed that 44 percent had received screening tests for heart disease rated by
CR as very unlikely or unlikely to have benefits that outweigh the risks.

"By identifying tests and procedures that might warrant additional conversations
between doctors and patients, we are able to help patients receive better care
through easy-to-use and accessible information," said James A. Guest, J.D.,
president and CEO of Consumer Reports. "We're looking forward to being a part of
this innovative effort working with the ABIM Foundation, the specialty
societies, and our eleven consumer communications collaborators to get this
important message out to diverse populations of patients."

The Choosing Wisely campaign is designed to help physicians, patients and other
health care stakeholders think and talk about overuse of health care resources
in the United States. By creating and releasing today's lists, the groups aim to
stimulate discussion about the need - or lack thereof - for many frequently
ordered tests or treatments, many of which are requested by patients. The groups
also hope to support physician and patient relationships by encouraging specific
conversations about appropriate individualized testing and treatment plans.

As the nation increasingly focuses on ways to provide safer, higher-quality care
to patients, the overuse of health care resources is an issue of considerable
concern. Many experts agree that the current way health care is delivered in the
U.S. contains too much waste - with some stating that as much as 30 percent of
care delivered is duplicative or unnecessary and may not improve people's
health. In fact, such unnecessary care may harm or hinder patients' health.

All the lists released today as part of Choosing Wisely were developed by the
specialty societies after months of careful consideration and review. Using the
most current evidence about management and treatment options within their
specialty, the "Five Things" lists include recommendations that can make a
significant impact on patient care, safety and quality.

First announced in December 2011, Choosing Wisely is part of a multi-year effort
led by the ABIM Foundation to support and engage physicians in being better
stewards of finite health care resources. Participating specialty societies will
now work with the ABIM Foundation and Consumer Reports to share the lists widely
with their members and convene discussions about the physician's role in helping
patients make wise choices.

In addition, the campaign announced eight new participating specialty societies:


* American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine

* American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery

* American College of Rheumatology

* American Geriatrics Society

* American Society for Clinical Pathology

* American Society of Echocardiography

* Society of Hospital Medicine

* Society of Nuclear Medicine

These new societies will release their lists in fall 2012.

To view the lists or learn more, visit www.ChoosingWisely.org.

copyright contify.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              505 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             October 9, 2006 Monday
                                 First Edition

Too much focus on HSC marks, says uni chief

BYLINE: Harriet Alexander Higher Education Reporter

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 439 words


STUDENTS should be considered for university on a broader range of factors than
marks alone if the system is to be fair, one of Australia's most controversial
vice-chancellors says.

Professor Steven Schwartz, of Macquarie University, said a more equitable way of
choosing students would combine references, interviews and Higher School
Certificate marks, which is how overseas universities run their admissions
processes.

Otherwise disadvantaged students were being discriminated against, he said.

"You can make arguments on both sides," said Professor Schwartz, who oversaw a
review of admissions at British universities in 2004, while vice-chancellor at
Brunel University in London.

"You can say for marks, no other factors are taken into consideration and
therefore it's fair competition. The argument on the other side is that's only
true if everyone starts from the same place. My feeling is that the opportunity
for mobility, to give people the opportunity to go to university and move up in
society, is more important ... we shouldn't ignore it."

Professor Schwartz, who took up his position at Macquarie in February, did not
rule out choosing students for some courses on a combination of marks and other
factors, but said it would be difficult for the university to overhaul entry
requirements unilaterally.

Although US and British higher education systems look at a variety of factors
when accepting students, Australia has not held the same debate.

The most notable exception to the rule is medicine, for which applicants sit a
separate exam and most universities run interviews. Other courses consider
auditions or portfolios in addition to marks.

"I don't think anyone in the UK or US would want to go on with a system like
[Australia's] because it's so mechanical," Professor Schwartz said. "It's hard
to believe that [the difference between] a 99.4 and a 99.5 means anything and
yet it changes your life."

The British review run by Professor Schwartz argued students' backgrounds should
be taken into account in selection for university, because those from poorer
backgrounds were less likely to achieve high grades. Admissions should not be
biased in favour of students from certain backgrounds, but their achievements
should be put in context, it said.

George Cooney, a professor in education at Macquarie and chairman of the NSW
University Admission Index scaling committee, said many faculties were already
considering factors other than marks and offering programs to disadvantaged
students. University admission procedures in Britain and the US were markedly
different to those here, so they should not be compared, he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              506 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                             August 23, 2015 Sunday
                               Telegraph Edition

DECISION TIME

BYLINE: Laura Cencigh-Albulario

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. 71

LENGTH: 754  words


Thorough research is key to finding a course that suits your career ambitions,
writes Laura Cencigh-Albulario

WEEKS of research usually go into planning a holiday, but according to career
coach and Max Coaching founder Jane Lowder, not as many people are as dedicated
to researching their study and career plans.

"Any study will involve a significant investment of your time and money, so
don't rush the decision, take your time to consider if it's the right path for
you," she advises.

With open days running across universities, TAFE and private colleges over the
coming weeks, now is the ideal time to start asking all the right questions.

Along with seeking specific course details, it's also time to give serious
thought to what you really want to do, and also the reality behind your future
career dreams.

SOUL SEARCHING The "should factor" is to be avoided when choosing a tertiary
course, according to Lowder. This might mean choosing a course because someone
else said you should do it, or applying to the course with the highest entrance
score because you feel you should use all your marks.

"Obligation-based decision making is not usually the best option," Lowder says.
"Ask yourself what you really want to do, as opposed to what you feel you should
do." She suggests ranking your level of interest in each of the courses under
consideration, on a scale of 1-10.

"Think about the top-three things that interest you in a course. When your
interest is high, so will be your motivation," Lowder adds.

ASK THE EXPERTS Of the student ambassadors who work at UNSW, a majority decided
where to study based on attending an open day, according to Jonathon Strauss,
acting manager of the university's Future Students Office.

"Check you're happy with the environment - listen to the gut feeling you get
when you step foot on campus," Strauss says.

In addition, there are lots of practical questions to ask academics, students
and staff.

"Ask what the teaching style is like," Strauss suggests.

"It might be one-on-one, big lectures followed by tutes, or the Socratic method
where you read before class then question and challenge the lecturer. Think
about whether a particular teaching style is something you'll enjoy." Also find
out if there are any additional selection criteria used for applications such as
auditions and portfolios, the major and minor subject options, and the
possibilities of doing units from other disciplines.

"You might want to do some psychology with your business degree, or a language
alongside a course," Strauss says.

Continued p74 Continued from P71 If there's a possibility you won't get into
your dream course, use open days to form a plan B. "Find out if you can start in
a similar degree then transfer internally, if you'd be better off going to
another uni first before transferring, or taking a gap year if there are
additional selection criteria you can meet in that time," Strauss says.

Finally, open days are an opportunity to ask about student exchange and
scholarships - both general scholarships and those linked to specific courses.

Your open-days research should begin before you even arrive on campus. "If
you're interested in a particular course, make sure the university you're
planning to visit actually offers it," Strauss says. Also check out the schedule
of talks and activities online and plan your day.

MARKET RESEARCH Even if you blitz university, your dream job may still be out of
reach if it's out of touch with market realities.

A recent Graduate Careers Australia survey reveals tightening market conditions,
with about 10 per cent of graduates still looking for a job four months after
graduating. The same survey shows 20 per cent had found part-time work.

Graduate Careers Australia policy and strategy adviser Bruce Guthrie says even
graduates in full-time roles are unlikely to be in their ideal position. "It's
not about the first job you get after uni - some are just taking work to tide
them over," he says.

"You need to look at what steps you can realistically take to get that dream
job." Guthrie suggests asking people who have your dream job how they got there
and keeping an eye on the job market before and during your studies. There are
reports at graduatecareers.com.au and simply browsing employment websites will
give you a taste of the jobs market in your field. Keeping an open mind also
helps. "Remember that serendipity can play a huge role in career development,"
Guthrie says."A job might not be your perfect role, but can lead you off on a
rich career tangent."

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Telegraph


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              507 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bakersfield Californian

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 3, 2008 Sunday

The Bakersfield Californian Herb Benham column: Benham column: Inspection of
college campus yields satisfactory results ? for parents

BYLINE: Herb Benham, The Bakersfield Californian

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT NEWS

LENGTH: 578 words


Feb. 3--"Is the campus safe?" asked a mother scrunched in a classroom seat ahead
of me.

Safe? It's safe between 9 and 11 a.m., after which the criminals start jumping
out of trees like mountain lions.

Safe? It's safe as long as you have steel bars on your windows, four deadbolts
and a loaded handgun under your pillow.

Recently we went on a college visit with our high school senior son. These are
awkward affairs. It's like chaperoning someone on a date and trying to decide
whether you should drive or watch what's happening in the back seat.

Things were different when we went to school. You visited the college the day
you checked into your dorm.

You picked a college based on what it sounded like. Santa Barbara -- sounded
cool. Colorado -- sounded like skiing. Miami -- sounded like bikinis.

Research was limited to talking to a friend who had a friend who knew somebody
who went there. Even that was a lot. Most people went to the first school that
would have them.

Now we read, research and travel. Who knows whether it helps? Choosing a college
could be like choosing a spouse. It's probably dumb luck that it works out
regardless of how long you've known them.

On our visit, we were sitting in a classroom watching a film about the school
that was shot on one of the sunniest, brightest, most colorful days in the
history of the state. It looked like the Caribbean.

The mother who had asked about safety had already violated Parent Rule No. 1: Do
not speak. And, whatever you do, don't ask questions.

It didn't matter that the mother's question was a good one. "My mother is a
fool," her daughter was thinking. "I hope my mother is not as big a moron as
that mother," the other prospective students were thinking.

Parent Rule No. 2: Do not indicate a preference. Any sign that a parent thinks
this might be a good place to go to school will automatically queer the choice.

"My parents like this school? What do they know? They'd probably organize a
peace march here or volunteer for some lame political campaign."

Better to employ reverse psychology. If you like the school, come down hard on
it. If you don't, praise it to high heaven.

The skies were overcast the day we took our tour. It was windy. It was collar-up
cold.

Weather can be a college killer. Too warm, too cold and too a million other
things parents haven't considered. A prospective student is like a dog. They can
hear high-pitched sounds of distress to which the rest of us are deaf.

We took a tour through the dorms, the gym and some of the classrooms. The gym
had a cafe that served smoothies. Served smoothies? Smoothies weren't even
invented when we went to school.

"We have two coffeehouses on campus," said Jeff, our tour guide.

Two coffeehouses? This school is a go.

We finished the tour in the bookstore. The woman helping with the sweat shirt
purchase fussed over her prospective student.

"Don't worry, if he comes here next year, I'll take care of him," she said. "I
momma a lot of boys here."

Sold, we screamed silently. We'll see you in the fall. With or without our kids.

To see more of The Bakersfield Californian, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.bakersfield.com. Copyright (c) 2008, The Bakersfield Californian
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080203-BK-The-Bakersfield-Californian-Herb-Benham-column-0203

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BK


                   Copyright 2008 The Bakersfield Californian


                              508 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           February 12, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Cardinals will be locked away to reach a decision;
CONCLAVE

BYLINE: Alex Spillius

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 342 words


THE arcane process of choosing a successor to Pope Benedict XVI will quickly
follow his official departure from office on Feb 28, and the world will soon
find itself focusing on the chimney of the Sistine Chapel.

The College of Cardinals, which currently has 117 members, will convene within
the walls of the Vatican Chapel for a centuries-old ritual known as a conclave.

They will be alone except for servants, emergency medical staff and, on one
previous occasion, an Italian journalist disguised as a servant attempting to
leak news to the world.

The cardinals eat, vote and sleep within sealed areas until they have selected a
new pope. No contact is allowed with the outside world. The threat of
excommunication hangs over anyone tempted to break the vow of silence.

Unusually, there will be no representative of England and Wales this time.
Vincent Nichols, who became Archbishop of Westminster in 2009, has not been made
a cardinal.

Any baptised Roman Catholic male is eligible for election, but since 1378 only
cardinals have been selected.

The process can take days. A handful of candidates will preach at Mass to the
college.

A lengthy debate is likely in choosing Pope Benedict's successor, given the
surprise of his resignation.

Two ballots are held each morning and two each afternoon for up to three days
until a two-thirds majority is reached.

The cardinals write their choice on a ballot paper and place it in an urn. The
votes are added up by scrutineers, and, if there are no irregularities, the
result is recorded and the ballot papers burned.

If the colour of the smoke billowing from the chapel's stovepipe is white, then
a new pope has been chosen. If it is dark, then that means there will be another
vote. Previously, damp straw was used to darken the smoke. Since 1963, a liquid
dye has been used.

The conclave has been the procedure for choosing the pope since 1417, and is the
oldest ongoing method for choosing the leader of any major institution. There
has been no significant challenge to a decision by the conclave.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              509 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                            October 21, 2014 Tuesday

6 Q's About the News | Where Young College Graduates Are Choosing to Live

BYLINE: MICHAEL GONCHAR

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 190 words



HIGHLIGHT: Can you imagine yourself moving to a city when you get older, if you
don&#8217;t live there already? Why?


  In "Where Young College Graduates Are Choosing to Live," Claire Cain Miller
writes about a new demographic trend.

WHERE are young college graduates moving in growing numbers?

HOW many young, college-educated people move to other states every year?

WHAT major metropolitan area had the largest percent change in the number of
college graduates aged 25 to 34 who moved there from 2000 to 2012?

WHY is attracting young college graduates so important for successful economic
development in cities?WHERE did the population of college graduates actually
decrease during the decade from 2000 to 2012?

WHAT four major metropolitan areas lead the nation in their percentage of young
and educated residents?

WHY is Denver so popular among young college graduates, according to economists?

By HOW much has the migration of young college graduates changed in urban cores
since 1980?

For Higher-Order Thinking

Can you imagine yourself moving to a city when you get older, if you don't live
there already? WHY?

WHAT do you think this influx of young college graduates into urban areas means
for cities? Is it a positive trend? WHY?

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              510 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Blade (Toledo, Ohio)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            October 3, 2017 Tuesday

EDITORIAL: Choosing the light after tragedy

BYLINE: The Blade, Toledo, Ohio

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 582 words


Oct. 03--Lin-Manuel Miranda, the creator of Hamilton,  had a powerful message
for Americans struggling with tragic events, including the Las Vegas massacre,
the devastation in the Caribbean from Hurricane Maria, and a catastrophic
earthquake in Mexico:

"You can give blood. You can help Puerto Rico. You can help the Virgin Islands.
You can help Mexico. No shortage of ways to do good today," Mr. Miranda tweeted.

"Focus on being the light in the dark. It is all we can really do," said Dr.
Victoria Kelly, an assistant professor in the department of psychiatry at the
University of Toledo Medical Center, the former Medical College of Ohio. "We
need to be good role models. It is OK to show that you are sad or afraid, but
don't let it run away and get a life of its own. Focus on the positive and the
light."

Click here to view more Blade editorials

The Las Vegas tragedy has been difficult for many to process because authorities
have not been able to determine a clear motive for the gunman, Stephen Paddock.
He did not profess any radical political beliefs and he had no history of mental
illness.

"It doesn't matter if we know the motive or not. Our reaction should be the
same," Dr. Kelly said.

A Milwaukee psychiatrist, Dr. Bruce Axelrod, has said that it is important to
talk to our children about Las Vegas. How do we do that? The same way we should
talk to each other about it: Honestly. Don't deny the reality of the slaughter,
but also try to find the hope in the heroics of people who gave their lives for
others. Honesty is a key to mental health. So is balance. No one can look at Las
Vegas and feel anything but heartbreak. But despair and hopelessness will not
lead to action, or better, mental health. And neither will Pollyannish denial of
reality.

Dr. Axelrod says that it is important to "stop the world for a moment," to mourn
and reflect. Children need this pause just as adults do.

How, exactly, do we focus on the light, in the face of darkness?  How do we stay
sane as individuals when there seems to be much insanity (darkness) "out there"?
That grand old man of American psychiatry, the late Dr. Karl Menninger, founder
of the Menninger Clinic, gave some surprisingly practical advice:

--Give to the needy, perhaps, in our time and circumstance, to relief for Puerto
Rico or Mexico.  Generous people, he said, are seldom mentally ill.

--Love -- romantic love, good marriages, acts of kindness and affection, acts of
charity -- heals people. It pulls us out of ego cul de sacs and neurosis. Love
propels us into the world with energy and optimism and it forms a protective
shield around us.

--Listening is powerful. Listening softens the adversary and draws in the
friend. Being listened to is empowering.

Don't despair of our culture or our country in dark times. Look for the good
deeds and the heroes in Las Vegas. Look for the light and be the light: Give to
those who need your help; love those you can love; listen to as many stories as
you can.

Guidelines: Please keep your comments smart and civil. Don't attack other
readers personally, and keep your language decent. Comments that violate these
standards, or our privacy statement or visitor's agreement, are subject to being
removed and commenters are subject to being banned. To post comments, you must
be a registered user on toledoblade.com. To find out more, please visit the FAQ.

___ (c)2017 The Blade (Toledo, Ohio) Visit The Blade (Toledo, Ohio) at
www.toledoblade.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20171003-TO-EDITORIAL-Choosing-the-light-after-tragedy-1003-20171003

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TO


                            Copyright 2017 The Blade


                              511 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            January 1, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Perfect fit for new you Perfect fit for;
Sports presenter and mum-of-two Kirsty Gallagher has teamed up with
www.Very.co.uk to launch her own fitness range. Here she reveals why and gives
her tips for staying trim

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24,25

LENGTH: 396 words


Why did you decide to get involved with this range? Why did you decide to get
involved with this range? I'VEbeen very lucky to be able to combine my two
loves; sport and fashion.

been very lucky to be able to combine my two loves; sport and fashion.

I went to the London college of art so it's been really exciting for me to
collaborate on this I went to the London college of art so it's been really
exciting for me to collaborate on this fitness range.

involved in the whole process that goes into designing a range, I have been
involved in the whole process that goes into designing a range, from the
original ideas to choosing materials, patterns and colours.

ideas to choosing What is the key to living a healthy lifestyle? I HAVE always
enjoyed sport, but it was in my twenties that I really started to be
conscientious about diet and exercise. The two go hand in hand.

I became more interested in and knowledgeable on how the two impact my body.

What should women look for in their gym gear and what do you wear to the gym?
Activewear I LOVE wearing my collection! It's nice to be confident in what you
wear at the gym, but women shouldn't feel under pressure to look their best.

We go to the gym for ourselves, not for anyone else.

I don't wear make up in the gym as I like my skin to be clean before a workout.

gym as I like my skin to be clean before a workout.

How do you keep yourself motivated? How do you keep yourself motivated? I DON'T
put too much pressure on myself. I stick to a routine but keep it varied and
keep a well-balanced diet.

put too much pressure on myself. I stick to a routine but keep it varied and
keep a well-balanced diet.

I like to schedule gym classes into my diary like meetings then I can be
surenothing will I like to schedule gym classes into my diary like meetings then
I can be surenothing will be booked at that time.

Do you have a New Year's resolution? I WOULD really like to complete a
triathlon.

London Triathlon I was training for the riathlon when I became pregn ant with my
youngest, Jude, so I had to stop. I am aiming to do it next year.

Do you have any advice for new mums? DON'T pressure yourself. Start small such
as walking instead of driving then take it up a notch.

The same routine or sport doesn't suit everyone so find something you love and
that works for you.

A ¦ ¦ Activewear with Kirtsy Gallagher is available now at Very.co.u

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Activewear leggings, £20 and top, £18Activewear ¦ ¦leggings, £20 and
jumper, £32¦ Activewear ¦vest top, £15 and leggings, £20¦ Activewear ¦medium
support bra, £15 and seamless three quarter tights, £18Activewear ¦seamless
tie-dye tights, £20 and support bra, £15 all clothes from www.Very.co.uk

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CVT


                   Copyright 2015 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              512 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                          December 31, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fashion a fit new you ashion a fit;
Sports presenter and mum-of-two Kirsty Gallagher has teamed up with
www.Very.co.uk to launch her own fitness range. Here she reveals why and gives
her tips for staying trim

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24,25

LENGTH: 396 words


Why did you decide to get involved with this range? Why did you decide to get
involved with this range? I'VEbeen very lucky to be able to combine my two
loves; sport and fashion.

been very lucky to be able to combine my two loves; sport and fashion.

I went to the London college of art so it's been really exciting for me to
collaborate on this I went to the London college of art so it's been really
exciting for me to collaborate on this fitness range.

involved in the whole process that goes into designing a range, I have been
involved in the whole process that goes into designing a range, from the
original ideas to choosing materials, patterns and colours.

ideas to choosing What is the key to living a healthy lifestyle? I HAVE always
enjoyed sport, but it was in my twenties that I really started to be
conscientious about diet and exercise. The two go hand in hand.

I became more interested in and knowledgeable on how the two impact my body.

What should women look for in their gym gear and what do you wear to the gym?
Activewear I LOVE wearing my collection! It's nice to be confident in what you
wear at the gym, but women shouldn't feel under pressure to look their best.

We go to the gym for ourselves, not for anyone else.

I don't wear make up in the gym as I like my skin to be clean before a workout.

gym as I like my skin to be clean before a workout.

How do you keep yourself motivated? How do you keep yourself motivated? I DON'T
put too much pressure on myself. I stick to a routine but keep it varied and
keep a well-balanced diet.

put too much pressure on myself. I stick to a routine but keep it varied and
keep a well-balanced diet.

I like to schedule gym classes into my diary like meetings then I can be
surenothing will I like to schedule gym classes into my diary like meetings then
I can be surenothing will be booked at that time.

Do you have a New Year's resolution? I WOULD really like to complete a
triathlon.

London Triathlon I was training for the riathlon when I became pregn ant with my
youngest, Jude, so I had to stop. I am aiming to do it next year.

Do you have any advice for new mums? DON'T pressure yourself. Start small such
as walking instead of driving then take it up a notch.

The same routine or sport doesn't suit everyone so find something you love and
that works for you.

A ¦ ¦ Activewear with Kirtsy Gallagher is available now at Very.co.u

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Activewear leggings, £20 and top, £18Activewear ¦ ¦leggings, £20 and
jumper, £32¦ Activewear ¦vest top, £15 leggings, £20¦ Activewear ¦medium support
bra, £15 and seamless three quarter tights, £18Activewear ¦seamless tie-dye
tights, £20 and support bra, £15 all clothes from www.Very.co.uk

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2014 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              513 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            April 13, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CORRECTIONS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 100 words


It is the policy of The Tampa Tribune to correct all errors of fact. To report
an error, call (813) 259-7600 or email news@tampatrib.com


CLARIFICATION: Students should look for regional or national accreditation that
is recognized by the U.S. Department of Education in choosing a for-profit
college, says Sam Ferguson, executive director of the state Commission for
Independent Education. Ferguson clarifies a recommendation he made in an April 6
Tribune story on choosing for-profit colleges.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              514 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                             June 28, 2014 Saturday
                              CareerOneSA Edition

Steady course with eye on local current

SECTION: CAREERONE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 325  words


SPECIAL FEATURE COURSES, APPRENTICESHIPS & TRAINING Australian Tourism Centre
and Recruitment College outlines the benefits of an SA training provider
Students who are mulling over whether to enrol at a local, national or
international training provider may find the most advantage in choosing the one
based closest to home.

While there are many benefits from studying at a national or international
organisation, choosing a local provider gives students access and insight into
skills and opportunities where they are most likely to be employed - their own
backyard.

Australian Tourism Centre and Recruitment College director Samantha Venables
says studying at a South Australian-owned and operated business ensures students
get training from an organisation that understands the dynamic state market.

It means they will be trained to meet and exceed SA's particular requirements.
"This is a great advantage to our students as it ensures that they receive
training at a high calibre through up-to-date educational resources that match
the training with the trends of the South Australian travel, tourism, events and
hospitality industry," she says.

"We continuously keep a finger on the pulse of these industries, which
guarantees that our students are offered the best training possibilities
relevant to current demands.

"We understand how impor-tant it is to maintain a strong network within the
industry." Often trainers at local providers also work at local organisations so
keep their finger on trends and needs.

Venables says a Certificate III in Travel and Tourism is in high demand by SA
tourism, travel, events and hospitality employers but a Certificate III in
Events is rising in popularity.

Once students obtain a nationally recognised qualification, such as those
offered at ATCRC, they can be employed anywhere in SA, interstate and
overseas."Our success rate currently sits about 85 per cent of our graduates
gaining employment," Venables says.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Advertiser


                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              515 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              The Plymouth Herald

                           January 10, 2018 Wednesday

Just never stop discovering with City College

SECTION: BUSINESS:CONSUMER; Pg. 2-3

LENGTH: 458  words


CITY COLLEGE offers you the chance to be an active part of planning for your
future so you can gain the qualifications, work experience and employability
skills that will help you to start your career, get that promotion, or secure
your place at university.

When what you are learning is relevant to your chosen career, it is easy to
motivate yourself to achieve more.

As the leading provider of professional and technical training in the South
West, the College provides real working environments where you learn and train.

It also uses strong links with employers across the region to design its
courses, develop industry-standard facilities, and build work experience into
all of the study programmes, giving you the best start to your career.

Skills for the future

According to the World Economic Forum, 65 per cent of children entering school
today will ultimately end up working in completely new jobs that don't even
exist yet.

With technology constantly changing the job market, how do you ensure you make
the best choice for a secure career? City College is investing in future skills
with its new Regional Centre of Excellence for STEM (Science, Technology,
Engineering and Maths) and embedding this crucial knowledge across its
curriculum. So no matter what subject you choose, you'll be getting those vital
transferable skills which make you employable.

Aged 16-18? Discover a world   outside of the classroom

You're not just choosing a course, you're choosing a career. That means getting
stuck in and really enjoying what you do.

At college you can get hands-on - whether that's learning the finer points of
engineering, brushing up on hair and beauty, programming with digital and media,
or building your knowledge in the construction trades.

If you dream of going to university,  remember A Levels aren't your only option.

You can earn those crucial UCAS points by undertaking a BTEC and even gain
English and maths qualifications at the same time.

Aged 19-plus? Looking to return   to work or develop your skills?

Whether you are looking to improve your career prospects, pick up a new skill or
brush up on some old ones, returning to education is made easy and accessible
with City College's part-time courses.

Designed to fit around your work and home life, there's a range of courses from
beauty and construction skills through to engineering and management, as well as
support with English and maths.

Free advice and guidance

There's a lot to think about when deciding   what career path to take. City
College's open day is a great chance to receive free, impartial advice and
guidance about your options and the different levels of funding and other
support available. Join the team on  February 3, from 10am to 1pm, and be part
of it.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2018 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              516 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Cornish Guardian

                          September 12, 2007 Wednesday

What's your destination?

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 370 words


Once that last sentence is written on the final exam, the pressure is on to
decide which direction you want to go.

Do you take a year out? Do you go travelling? Do you get a job? or do you go on
to further education.

The top reasons for choosing this route include improving career prospects,
learning new skills, broadening your horizon, meeting people from all walks of
life and gaining independence.

There are all sorts of ways of doing further education, but choosing what to
study, where is a project in itself.

A Level results are about more than just grades.

According to employer research carried out by the Learning and Skills Council
(LSC) nearly a quarter of recruiters think it is vital for job-seekers to have
at least two A Levels or a vocational equivalent.

The LSC urges young people to look at all the options open to them.

John Chudley, area director for the region said: "Those that have received A
Levels should be congratulated on their hard work, but for those who haven't got
the grades our message is don't worry and don't give up on learning.

"There are lots of learning options open to you and you could be eligible for
funding through the Adult Learning Grant.

"There are many job opportunities available which include excellent training
schemes, which can be just as beneficial as remaining in full-time learning."

Taking your future in your own hands and gaining skills will improve prospects
for promotion, increase salary and better prepare you for work life.

If you are planning college, but want to think further ahead to university UCAS
(the universities and colleges admissions service) handles all university
applications.

Whether its first degree, higher national diploma or certificate or a diploma or
certificate of higher education - the choice is yours.

Taking a degree doesn't commit you to a particular career and you don't have to
sign up for three years full time.

You can mix study with work through a higher national certificate which you can
top up year by year until you earn a degree.

The annual UKAS directory (www.ucas.ac.uk)  lists 45,000 courses at more than
330 institutions.

University may seem like a long way off, but it's never too early to start
thinking about your career path.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 Cornish Guardian
                              All Rights Reserved


                              517 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    Geelong News (Free Suburban) (Australia)

                            April 15, 2009 Wednesday
                                1 - Main Edition

Uni students sit out the downturn

BYLINE: Carl Dickens

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 249 words


GEELONG students are choosing to study longer in the wake of the global
financial crisis.

New figures from Deakin University show applications for postgraduate courses
have risen sharply since the economic slowdown hit.

The statistics show the university's 2009 trimester 1 applications increased
12.33 per cent from the same time last year, with 4274 applications received
compared to 3805 last year.

The figures also show a 60 per cent jump in applications from summer 2007/08 to
trimester 3 2008.

All faculties rose but the most significant increase was that of the Faculty of
Business and Law, which saw postgraduate applications leap 67.4 per cent.

Deakin's postgraduate recruitment manager Monika Shave said growing unemployment
and an unstable economy meant many students were choosing to study longer to
make themselves more competitive in the workforce.

``My instinct tells me that it's got to do with the economic downturn,'' Ms
Shave said.

``We've got a lot of current undergraduate students finishing their courses this
year who in the past would've gone out and got a job. But now they're concerned
about the workforce, and so they're choosing to stay on longer.''

Ms Shave also said the full effect of the downturn on postgraduate interest was
yet to be fully felt.

``We'll be able to see this trend perhaps more in the next few months,'' she
said.

``Because the economic downturn happened so quickly, a lot of people didn't see
it coming, so they might still be looking at their options.''

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GNE


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              518 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            June 13, 2001 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

On the record

SECTION: EDUCATION; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 655 words


Britain still class-conscious

Some things are the same the world over. Despite Kevin Donnelly's claims in The
Age last week (Opinion, June 6), it seems class sizes do make a difference - to
parents, at least.

The latest in a series of four-yearly surveys of parents of children recently
admitted to independent schools in British schools, carried out by the British
Independent Schools Information Service, shows that smaller classes are cited
more often than

any other reason for choosing independent rather than state schools.

A total of 36 per cent of parents, surveyed during the spring term of 2001,
cited class size as their principal reason for choosing an independent education
- up from 25 per cent in the last survey in 1997.

The survey, published last month, also shows that the proportion of parents
choosing independent schools because they find the state alternative
unsatisfactory has not significantly changed since 1989. Just over 20 per cent
of children in Britain attend independent schools, a smaller percentage than in
Victoria.

Birthday honors well-deserved

Congratulations to four Victorians who have been recognised in the Queen's
birthday honor list for their services to education as well as to the wider
community.

· Jefferey Mahemoff received an AO, for his services to education, particularly
through the development of Bialik College as a progressive educational
institution.

· Emeritus professor David Elwyn Davies, AM, for his role in in the
higher-education private provider accreditation process in Victoria.

· Professor Richard Alan Russell, AM, for services to science education,
particularly through the Australian and International Chemistry Olympiads.

· Herbert Vincent Sloane, OAM, for services to primary education in Victoria,
through education and welfare organisations, the Gould League, the National
Trust and Rotary International.

Finger on the pulse

The shortage of doctors in country areas could be overcome with a special "pulse
point" at which eligible people, fitted with a "pulse checker 3000" under the
skin, could scan themselves for a full health assessment ... well, that's a view
of the future as put forward by the grade 5/6 class at Hillcrest Primary School
in Tasmania, and it's one that won them $6000 worth of Hewlett-Packard
technology. The award was made last week by the general manager of HP Consulting
Australasia, Jos Kunnen, who commended all finalists in the "HP Inventing the
Future" competition for their creativity and effort. The challenge put to
schools was to determine what "zone one pulse point" would mean in the future:
Hillcrest's innovative ideas won them first place in the Victorian/Tasmanian
finals; second prize (valued at $3000) went to Greythorn Primary School and
third ($1000) to Montagu Bay Primary School.

BigBlue has big ideas

In a partnership intended to improve the way students learn, IBM's International
Foundation will invest

$1.2 million in Victoria government schools, an amount to be matched by the
Department of Education (DEET). The program, known as Reinventing Education,
addresses equity issues in schools in disadvantaged areas.

It is a breakthrough for Victoria but is already operating in eight countries,
including the US. The program supports teachers as they share and refine best
practices through peer-reviews.

IBM offers researchers, technical expertise and business acumen to create
technology solutions to schools' problems.

The program, which has a core of technology tools housed in a framework called
Learning Village, was developed collaboratively by IBM researchers and educators
around the world.

It is expected that up to 100 teachers and 24 to 36 Victorian schools will
participate over the next three years.

Reminder about entries

Primary schools are reminded to get their entries in by next Wednesday, June 20,
for the chance to win a visit to their school by Opera Australia. For full
details, see last week's Education Age.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2001 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              519 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Whittlesea Leader (Australia)

                           February 1, 2012 Wednesday
                                 1 - WP Edition

Students choose La Trobe

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 224  words


MORE students are choosing La Trobe University as their first preference for
tertiary studies than any other university in the state.

The Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre (VTAC) published information this month
showing first preferences for La Trobe have grown steadily over the past three
years.

The Federal Government signalled three years ago that it would remove caps on
undergraduate places.

The policy came into effect this year.

VTAC figures show that between 2009 and 2012, La Trobe's first preference
applications have risen by 28.4 per cent, from 6846 to 8793, compared with a
statewide average rise of just 9 per cent.

The Bundoora campus has had the greatest increase in offers in three years, with
a 35.6 per cent increase from 4538 to 6154, but offers at Bendigo have also
risen 33 per cent.

The university has increased the number of places in its early and main round
offers, from 6345 to 8555, an increase of 34.8 per cent.

Senior deputy vice-chancellor Professor John Rosenberg said there was a
significant increase in the number of students choosing health science and
education courses.

``It's an excellent and extremely pleasing result, in keeping with La Trobe
University's mission to increase higher education opportunities in Melbourne and
throughout the state through our network of regional campuses,'' Prof Rosenberg
said.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WPV


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              520 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                            March 24, 2005 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Academic high ground gives way

BYLINE: Tim Dodd

SECTION: EDUCATION; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 483 words


Howard Davies represents the new breed of vice-chancellor with a business
background. Tim Dodd reports.

Meet Howard Davies, director of the London School of Economics, one of Britain's
top five universities.

Davies is not an academic. Until two years ago he was Britain's top financial
regulator as chairman of the Financial Services Authority. Before that he was
deputy governor of the Bank of England. He has also been director-general of the
Confederation of British Industry, a McKinsey management consultant, and an
official of both the British Foreign Office and the Treasury.

But in the new environment in Britain, where top universities earn less than
one-third of their revenue from a government grant (or less than one-fifth in
LSE's case), this bureaucrat-businessman was appointed two years ago to head the
LSE.

Davies is not alone when he meets the other university leaders in Britain's
Group of Five the equivalent of Australia's Group of Eight which represents the
elite universities.

Two of his colleagues also come from outside academia. Oxford's new
vice-chancellor, John Hood, is a New Zealander who worked at Fletcher Challenge
for 19 years, running its construction and pulp-and-paper arms, until he became
University of Auckland vice-chancellor in 1999. And the rector of Imperial
College, Richard Sykes, used to be chairman and chief executive of drug group
Glaxo. Only Cambridge and University College London are still run by academics,
although Cambridge has broken with tradition by choosing an American, former
Yale provost Alison Richards, as its vice-chancellor.

"In the UK the big universities are moving quite strongly away from the
traditional academic administrator role," says Davies, who is visiting Australia
this week.

He says that Malcolm Grant, the provost of University College was the only Group
of Five leader with a traditional British academic background and even he is a
"business-oriented guy".

"There's absolutely nobody of the five who is the standard identikit
vice-chancellor," he says.

He says the switch towards choosing university leaders who come from a business
and management background follows the shift in university funding away from
government and towards private sources.

"In those circumstances the management challenge is a very different one because
you are in a marketplace for students, a marketplace for research grants and a
marketplace for academics. What this all has meant is the need for much more
active management of universities," Davies says.

Even though government funding of universities in Australia has fallen to
similar levels as Britain, there has been no influx of university
vice-chancellors from outside academia.

The nearest Australia has come is the University of Melbourne's Glyn Davis.
Davis is a former director-general of the Queensland Department of the Premier
and Cabinet, although he has also had a career in academia.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LSE's new vice-chancellor, Howard Davies, has a
bureaucrat-business background. Photo Jim Rice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2005 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              521 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 17, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Women leave motherhood too late, warns medical chief

BYLINE: Louisa Peacock; Laura Donnelly

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 465 words


THE number of women choosing to delay motherhood is a "worrying issue", the
country's most senior doctor has said.

Prof Dame Sally Davies said she was concerned about the "steady shift" towards
women choosing to postpone starting a family until their late 30s or early 40s,
reducing their chance of conceiving, and increasing their risk of medical
complications.

"The steady shift to have children later, there are issues with that. We all
assume we can have children later but, actually, we may not be able to," Dame
Sally, the Chief Medical Officer for England, told a group of health
practitioners yesterday.

She also expressed concern that "many more women" were "choosing not to have
children".

The level of childlessness among British women in their 40s has reached levels
not seen since the 1960s - when tens of thousands of women who missed out on
starting a family because of the war reached middle age.

Figures from the Office for National Statistics show that 20 per cent of women
are now childless at 45 - twice as many as the generation born around 1945.

However, Dame Sally said she was stopping short of issuing advice that women
should have children earlier. "It's not for me to tell women what to do," she
said.

The chief medical officer, 64, also said she was "lucky" to have had two
children in her 40s.

But Dame Sally said it was a well-known fact that fertility declines as women
get older.

The average age of a first-time mother in the UK is now 30 - the oldest in the
world; a joint position shared with Germany. The average age of motherhood has
increased by almost two years since 1995, and is now two years later than the
average across all industrialised countries.

Four years ago the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists provoked a
debate after publishing advice which stated that women who wanted children
should do so between the age of 20 and 35, and warned that thousands of women
were leaving it too late.

Last night Patrick O'Brien, a spokesman for the college, said: "The average age
has been rising steadily for a long time; in my experience it is usually because
women want to get an education, maybe travel and get established in their
careers before they think about starting a family, and often don't appreciate
the dif-ficulties that can mean."

The consultant in obstetrics and gynaecology said that some women had been left
with the impression that scientific breakthroughs had bought them far more time
than was the case.

However, Natika Halil, a spokesman for the Family Planning Association, said:
"Fertility doesn't just disappear overnight.

"While women should be mindful, let's not panic; you don't wake up at 34 and
suddenly discover you can't have kids."

"We all assume we can have children later but, actually, we may not be able to"

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              522 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                            March 28, 2007 Wednesday

Opportunities through education at any age

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 431 words


Welcome to the first of The Sentinel's new look Education, Training and
Employment supplements.  Whether or not you agree with the saying that "your
school days are the best of your life", there's no doubting that they are among
the most important as they can hold the key to what happens in your adult life.

Having said that, there are very many people these days who are returning to
education and training as adults in order to further, or completely change,
their career.

So, in this supplement there's something for everyone to think about, right from
how to go about choosing childcare for your baby or toddler, through to what to
consider when choosing a university - and importantly, how you can finance it.
And, if it's some time since you finished your education, but are now thinking
of trying again, there's advice on some of the financial help that could be
available to you, or alternatively courses that might help you get back to work
if you are currently unemployed.

In addition, if as a parent you would prefer to choose independent sector
education for your child, then there are also tips on what to look out for in
helping you find the best place available.

Look out for the second edition of The Education, Training and Employment
Supplement in August.

If you are soon to return to work after having a baby, read up on what you need
to know when finding childcare.

One mum's guide to finding the right school for your children.

What parents need to know when their teenagers are about to move on to college.

Thinking of going to college?  What type of course should you choose?  We look
at the options.

Apprenticeships aren't just for school leavers these days.  You could start on
the road to training while at school, after leaving school or when you're
already at work.

Going to university?  How do you decide where to apply to, and who pays?

Returning to college as an adult can make a dent on the finances, but help may
be available.  Read what you might be entitled to.

Unemployed or about to be made redundant?  Advice on courses that might get you
back to work.

Does your staff need further training or qualifications in order to get the job
done?  We look at courses that can be taught in the workplace that will help
give your company a competitive edge.

If you're considering the private sector for your child's education, take a look
at our tips on choosing the right school.

Plus, of course, all the information relating to your particular needs contained
in the advertisements placed by major service providers and covering a wide
range of offerings across the region.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              523 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                             Metro Herald (Ireland)

                            February 10, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Up-skill to keep up;
BUSINESS COURSES: There is a range of post-grad courses to help you get ahead

BYLINE: Christina Finn

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18,19

LENGTH: 465 words


BUSINESS courses have always been a staple in any college's programming, but
with the onset of a challenging jobs market, people who are either in employment
or those who are not are all looking to up-skill and gain more expertise in the
business world.

Whether you want to go out on your own in business or you are already gainfully
employed, a business postgraduate course or MBA could suit you.

Prof Wallace Ewart, head of the Graduate Business School in Griffith College,
said a BA in business studies is a good pillar to begin, but to specialise you
need to do a postgrad or an MBA.

The main differences between a postgrad in business and an MBA is often a
business postgrad specialises in a certain section of business - like marketing
or finance - while an MBA is a Masters in Business Administration, where the aim
is to have a fully qualified business manager at the end of the programme.

Just like any course you undertake, research the modules and the campus. But how
do you decide which course is for you? Prof Ewart says that when they are
choosing candidates, experience is always important.

He says that he often asks candidates to write out exactly what they have done
in past roles. 'They shouldn't come back with an academic answer. It should be
practical, laying out all the things they had to do,' he says.

While some MBA students choose to give up work to study, it is more common for
people to do an MBA part-time.

'There is an array of experience in the classroom and they learn from each
other,' says Prof Ewart.

However, if an MBA is not for you there are a huge range of business courses. It
is just the case of finding the right one that fits with your career path.

'Business has always been popular - but when choosing a course I think it is
vital you choose one that shows it has kept up with the times we live in,' says
Prof Ewart, who adds that while accounting and HR have always been business
central, it is good to look at a college that offers other avenues, like cloud
computing, data analytics and so on.

In terms of fees, both options need to be paid for. While postgraduate courses
can range from (EURO)2,000 upwards, MBA fees can also vary depending on which
college you attend. Colleges such as Trinity College, Griffith College, DCU,
DBS, DIT and UCD'S Smurfit Business School all offer an MBA programme, as well
as postgraduate business courses.

Postgraduate courses in business are usually a year in duration while MBAs can
range from 12 months to 24 months. Applications are made directly to the
college, with many courses accepting applications now.

Many colleges offer scholarships and bursaries, so get in touch about your
options. Before making a decision, head along to the open evenings and
information mornings that are all gearing up from this month.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTReire


                          Copyright 2014 Metro Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              524 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                           December 8, 2007 Saturday

Ocean-friendly meals for students

BYLINE: Eva Wu

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 282 words


WWF  introduced ocean-friendly lunchboxes to  about 700 college students
yesterday, and aims  to bring  the new practice to at least five, possibly 10,
more schools next year.

Students of Elegantia College tasted their special lunch  made from  seafood
species recommended by WWF, which are caught or farmed in an ecologically
friendly way  or from fisheries which are well managed.

The school in Sheung Shui, which offered clam with spaghetti to its students
yesterday, will provide $15HK seafood lunchboxes  on the first Friday of  each
month.

WWF  developed the recipe with the school and its lunch caterer,  providing
assistance to the supplier in choosing appropriate seafood ingredients
including Pacific salmon, sardines from Portugal and scallops.

A student who finished his  seafood lunch within 10 minutes,  said it was much
tastier than others  he had tried before, although he found it difficult to
taste the clam.

Secondary two student Jessica Chan Sin-ting said she wished the new seafood
lunches were more frequent than just once a month.

WWF Hong Kong chief executive Eric Bohm  said the fund aimed to  introduce the
meals to as many colleges as possible, a move he said would  help students
better understand over-exploited fisheries.

Elegantia principal Tso Kai-lok  said the eating change could help students
adopt environmental protection ethics as norms.

Hong Kong students have learned  about sustainable seafood development in the
past few months through WWF seminars and educational programmes.

The worldwide organisation issued a seafood guide earlier this year  as a
reference  in choosing sustainably produced seafood and avoiding consumption of
endangered species.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Elegantia College students savour clam with spaghetti lunchboxes,
introduced by WWF. Photo: Ricky Chung

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              525 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Cyprus Mail

                            January 17, 2016 Sunday

Students increasingly going Dutch

LENGTH: 1211 words


By Annette Chrysostomou

Attracted by the low fees and increasing numbers of top Dutch universities
offering English-taught undergraduate and postgraduate degrees, growing numbers
of Cypriots are choosing to study in The Netherlands.

Although still a fraction of those choosing British and Greek universities, the
number of Cypriots studying in The Netherlands has tripled in the last four
years with 157 Cypriots enrolled on international degree programmes in 2014,
according to Netherlands University Foundation for International Cooperation
(Nuffic).

The 1,172 English-taught master programmes and 282 bachelor courses are
particularly attractive to those who want to avoid the high fees in England and
Wales and yet still attend long-established, highly regarded academic
institutions.

Since 2012, an undergraduate has to pay £9,000 ([#x20ac]11,800) a year at most
English universities. The annual university fees for 2015 to 2016 for an EU
student in The Netherlands are a mere [#x20ac]1,950.

Cypriots pay no fees at Greek universities, but years of economic crisis and
frequent disruption to studies by industrial action has made Greece a less
attractive option.

"The Netherlands has more than 2,100 international study programmes and courses.
In fact it offers the largest number of English-taught programmes in continental
Europe," said Jolanda Stavrinou Berkelder from NedCy Consultants.

With her colleague Maki Menelaou Roumelioti, she advises students interested in
studying in The Netherlands, helping them decide which university to apply to
and with the application process.

"Innovation and creativity are essential in Dutch education," she said,
explaining that one advantage of the Dutch system is that there are two types of
universities to choose from, the research-oriented and the 'Hogescholen' which
focus more on practical educational programmes.

Independent university admission consultant Nicos Chrysostomou from
'Steppingstones to Success' added that there are reasons other than academic
ones for studying in The Netherlands.

"It is not only about the low cost of education and world-renowned quality
education," he said.

"It is primarily all about being happy. The Netherlands is recognised as the
world's fourth happiest nation in the world and Amsterdam ranks the fifth safest
city and first bicycle friendly worldwide."

"I believe that, especially for young Cypriots of this day and age, The
Netherlands is the best destination to pursue their undergraduate and
postgraduate academic studies. Young Cypriots get an overall education that
helps them develop a winning attitude and life skills that will assist them with
their goals and aspirations."

Three students told the Sunday Mail why they chose to study there. While The
Netherlands had not been a first choice for all of them, none of them had any
regrets.

"I applied for some very highly ranked universities in UK but was not accepted,
but I was accepted at a good and highly ranked university in the Netherlands,"
said Alexandros Achilleos, 22, a first year undergraduate student in Rotterdam.

George Elisseos, 24, did a bachelor's degree in the UK and then changed to
Leiden for his master's. "I wanted a change to the European continent. And of
course it's a lot cheaper," he explained.

"Why did I choose The Netherlands? It was pure luck," said Theodoros
Georgallides, who has been a student in Amsterdam for almost five years.

"I was discussing with some friends where to study and at the time I was going
to study law. Somebody said that Amsterdam has a good university for law. It was
the best choice of my life."

Once they arrived, initially there were some challenges for the Cypriots. One is
the weather.

"The weather," Georgallides said, "is really depressing in the beginning." He
went on to explain that by 'the beginning' he meant the first two years!

Another is the intensity of the studies.

"Academic wise it is very intense. We all got a bit of a shock in the beginning.
But you get used to it," Elisseos said.

"Something which may be a good thing or a bad thing is that in the first year
you have to pass 42 credits out of 60 which is a lot in order to stay. Otherwise
you are not allowed to reapply for three years at the same university. It is
very hard, coming from the army and not being used to studying so hard. After
that it's different. For the second and third year you can take six years. This
allows you to work in between or to have an exchange, which is what many people
do," Georgallides elaborated.

Achilleos thinks it's just as well that the people who can't cope leave in the
beginning as it means struggling students are not allowed to drag things out.

Language is generally not seen as a problem, as nearly all people in The
Netherlands speak English, regardless of their age. However, it can be an issue
if you want to do more than complete your studies.

"It's not a language we learn in high school and if you want to work part time
you need to learn the language," Achilleos said.

"The language is difficult to learn but if you speak Dutch, the Dutch would be
more willing to become friends with you." Elisseos added.

Georgallides agrees. "You should speak the language to be integrated. The Dutch
are fed up with foreigners. They stick with other Dutch or Dutch-speaking
people. If you don't learn the language, you are in danger of just getting to
know a small expat circle."

An important plus for students is the ease of getting around via public
transport and bicycle, wherever they study. Those in smaller cities say it is
easy to commute to other cities, and in bigger cities like Amsterdam you can get
around by bike as it is flat everywhere.

All in all the experience is seen as very positive, which can be seen by the way
in which the students view their professional future.

"There is no question that people won't recognise the degree," Georgallides
said, talking about his economics degree. "The biggest international companies
are in Amsterdam and they choose students from the university. The managers
studied there as well."

"I am a hundred per cent positive. I am now looking for jobs and The Netherlands
are my first priority," Elisseos said.

There is more to living in The Netherlands than studying, particularly if you
get to know the place and the language. Georgallides found that one word sums it
up.

"A good way to describe it is 'gezellig', for which there is no word in English,
but is maybe best translated by 'a general togetherness that gives a warm
feeling'."

Studying in The Netherlands

Number of international students in the Netherlands from 2014 to 2015: more than
90,000

Total number of students in 2014 to 2015: 700,226

Number of universities in the top 100 of the QS World University rankings 2015:
Five

Cost of an average room per month: [#x20ac]300 to [#x20ac]600

Number of bachelor programmes in English: 282

Number of English-taught masters programmes: 1,172

Popular subjects of enrolled international students: Economics, Behaviour &
Society and Engineering.

Popular student cities: Amsterdam, Leiden and Utrecht

NedCy Consultants: nedcyconsultants@hotmail.com

Stepping Stones to Success: http://www.facebook.com/steppingstonesCY/

Orinfo@steppingstones.edu.gr

ThepostStudentsincreasinglygoingDutchappearedfirstonCyprusMail.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/41/70/31/145300331331.jpg



LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 70


               Copyright 2016 Cyprus Mail - Cyprus Mail Co. Ltd.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              526 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                          December 31, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fashion a fit new you ashion a fit;
FASHION

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 30,31

LENGTH: 429 words


Activewear leggings, £20 Sports presenter and mum-of-two Kirsty Gallagher has
teamed up with www.Very.co.uk to launch her own fitness range. Here she reveals
why and gives her tips for staying trim Why did you decide to get involved with
this range? Why did you decide to get involved with this range? I'VEbeen very
lucky to be able to combine my two loves; sport and fashion.

been very lucky to be able to combine my two loves; sport and fashion.

I went to the London college of art so it's been really exciting for me to
collaborate on this I went to the London college of art so it's been really
exciting for me to collaborate on this fitness range.

involved in the whole process that goes into designing a range, I have been
involved in the whole process that goes into designing a range, from the
original ideas to choosing materials, patterns and colours.

ideas to choosing What is the key to living a healthy lifestyle? I HAVE always
enjoyed sport, but it was in my twenties that I really started to be
conscientious about diet and exercise. The two go hand in hand.

I became more interested in and knowledgeable on how the two impact my body.

What should women look for in their gym gear and what do you wear to the gym?
Activewear I LOVE wearing my collection! It's nice to be confident in what you
wear at the gym, but women shouldn't feel under pressure to look their best.

We go to the gym for ourselves, not for anyone else.

I don't wear make up in the gym as I like my skin to be clean before a workout.

gym as I like my skin to be clean before a workout.

How do you keep yourself motivated? How do you keep yourself motivated? I DON'T
put too much pressure on myself. I stick to a routine but keep it varied and
keep a well-balanced diet.

put too much pressure on myself. I stick to a routine but keep it varied and
keep a well-balanced diet.

I like to schedule gym classes into my diary like meetings then I can be
surenothing will I like to schedule gym classes into my diary like meetings then
I can be surenothing will be booked at that time.

Do you have a New Year's resolution? I WOULD really like to complete a
triathlon.

London Triathlon I was training for the riathlon when I became pregn ant with my
youngest, Jude, so I had to stop. I am aiming to do it next year.

Do you have any advice for new mums? DON'T pressure yourself. Start small such
as walking instead of driving then take it up a notch.

The same routine or sport doesn't suit everyone so find something you love and
that works for you.

A ¦ ¦ Activewear with Kirtsy Gallagher is available now at Very.co.u

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Activewear leggings, £20 and top, £18Activewear ¦ ¦leggings, £20 and
jumper, £32¦ Activewear ¦vest top, £15 and leggings, £20¦ Activewear ¦medium
support bra, £15 and seamless three quarter tights, £18Activewear ¦seamless
tie-dye tights, £20 and support bra, £15 all clothes from www.Very.co.uk

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2014 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              527 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Doncaster Free Press

                             May 25, 2016 Wednesday

My View, Leon Riley: Hard work starting for A level and GCSE

LENGTH: 402  words


Students and parents from all across our region will be feeling the pressure
over the next few weeks.

Young people will be cramming in their final revision before they sit their
A-levels.

And their parents will be doing everything they can to support them.

This is while they go through what can only be described one of the toughest
tests in education.

There is no doubt about it, A-levels are tough.

And despite the annual furore saying that they are getting easier, they do offer
a really in-depth learning experience for those who take the exams.

I love to challenge the naysayers to take theirs again!

Step back two years, though, and we believe that this is when the hard work
begins.

Choosing the right A-level course and mix is so important.

Students need to consider not only what they are good at and what they enjoy,
but what will lead them into the career they'd like to pursue.

We hear so many stories of students choosing the wrong A-levels and then as a
result not enjoying their education.

At New College Pontefract, a sixth form college run by the Trust behind New
College Doncaster, a facility which is due to open in September next year, we
spend a great deal of time with our students before they start their journey
with us to help them to make the right decisions on what they study.

Some students have it all mapped out and know they want to be a PE teacher,
lawyer or midwife.

They know what subject they need to study to take the next steps.

Others face this choice feeling bewildered, especially if they don't know what
career path they want to follow.

We see our role as helping and advising them about the different opportunities
that different courses offer.

These choices are important building blocks in their education and creating a
solid foundation at this stage will help the students to succeed.

Those that choose wisely will be in a better position to succeed two years down
the line.

We want to wish all the students across the borough good luck as they face their
GCSE and A-Level public exams and say thank you to all of those who are
supporting them.

As they develop the building blocks of their education, we too are developing
the building blocks for New College Doncaster.

When it opens in September 2017, it will be the town's only standalone sixth
form college for 16- to 19-year-olds.

It will be a dynamic centre for post-16 learning, achievement, aspiration and
progression.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NDFP


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              528 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Epworth Bells

                             May 25, 2016 Wednesday

My View, Leon Riley: Hard work starting for A level and GCSE

LENGTH: 402  words


Students and parents from all across our region will be feeling the pressure
over the next few weeks.

Young people will be cramming in their final revision before they sit their
A-levels.

And their parents will be doing everything they can to support them.

This is while they go through what can only be described one of the toughest
tests in education.

There is no doubt about it, A-levels are tough.

And despite the annual furore saying that they are getting easier, they do offer
a really in-depth learning experience for those who take the exams.

I love to challenge the naysayers to take theirs again!

Step back two years, though, and we believe that this is when the hard work
begins.

Choosing the right A-level course and mix is so important.

Students need to consider not only what they are good at and what they enjoy,
but what will lead them into the career they'd like to pursue.

We hear so many stories of students choosing the wrong A-levels and then as a
result not enjoying their education.

At New College Pontefract, a sixth form college run by the Trust behind New
College Doncaster, a facility which is due to open in September next year, we
spend a great deal of time with our students before they start their journey
with us to help them to make the right decisions on what they study.

Some students have it all mapped out and know they want to be a PE teacher,
lawyer or midwife.

They know what subject they need to study to take the next steps.

Others face this choice feeling bewildered, especially if they don't know what
career path they want to follow.

We see our role as helping and advising them about the different opportunities
that different courses offer.

These choices are important building blocks in their education and creating a
solid foundation at this stage will help the students to succeed.

Those that choose wisely will be in a better position to succeed two years down
the line.

We want to wish all the students across the borough good luck as they face their
GCSE and A-Level public exams and say thank you to all of those who are
supporting them.

As they develop the building blocks of their education, we too are developing
the building blocks for New College Doncaster.

When it opens in September 2017, it will be the town's only standalone sixth
form college for 16- to 19-year-olds.

It will be a dynamic centre for post-16 learning, achievement, aspiration and
progression.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEPB


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              529 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                            January 16, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Open invitation to discover your study options

SECTION: EDUCATION;NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 486 words


WHEN choosing a college or sixth form it's important to gain as much knowledge
and insight as possible about the place where you will complete the last stage
of your journey towards higher education or employment.

And the best way to accomplish this is by attending an open day.

Most further educational schools and colleges hold open days during the school
year to allow prospective pupils to get an idea about daily life within its
walls.

By attending such open days, prospective students will gain an invaluable
opportunity to help make that all-important decision about where to continue
their education.

As there is a wealth of high quality learning institutions across the region, it
makes sense to create a shortlist of possible choices and then attend their open
days.

Before you go, think through exactly what it is you need to find out, and
consider questions you might want to ask.

An open day is a great opportunity to meet those directly involved with the
course or programme of study you are looking to follow. They are the best source
of information to answer any questions you may have, directly and informatively.

Open days are also a great chance to gain a general and practical insight into
the courses and facilities available at the college.

Many schools, centres and establishments have demonstrations and displays for
you to look at, and you can often try something out for yourself to gain a
better idea of what is on offer.

Even if you don't have any specific course in mind or any particular questions,
open days are a great way of showing what is available and can provide you with
some idea of what subjects may be of interest.

It will also give you the opportunity to gain a real feel for the place you are
thinking of studying at, and can help you decide whether or not it is the right
place for you.

When you attend an open day you'll be able to find out more about daily life at
the sixth form or college concerned.

You'll get the chance to meet staff and students, gain information on all the
courses offered and maybe even attend taster classes so that you can see what it
would be like to study there.

Extra-curricular activities are also an important consideration when choosing a
sixth form or college, so have a look at the facilities available for sports and
leisure, plus any clubs on offer.

And remember, if you are unable to attend an official open day, you should be
able to contact the college and arrange a personal tour to see if it is right
for you.

What to look out for when visiting a sixth form or college: If visiting during
term time, pay attention to the students. How do they behave? Do they appear
happy? Do they seem to have a good relationship with their tutors? Is the
environment clean, bright and inviting? Are the pupils' facilities in good
working order? Don't be afraid to ask as many questions as you need; you want to
be confident you have chosen the right place for you.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Open days can help give you a feel for a sixth form or college

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2015 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              530 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                            January 16, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Open invitation to discover your study options

SECTION: EDUCATION;NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 486 words


WHEN choosing a college or sixth form it's important to gain as much knowledge
and insight as possible about the place where you will complete the last stage
of your journey towards higher education or employment.

And the best way to accomplish this is by attending an open day.

Most further educational schools and colleges hold open days during the school
year to allow prospective pupils to get an idea about daily life within its
walls.

By attending such open days, prospective students will gain an invaluable
opportunity to help make that all-important decision about where to continue
their education.

As there is a wealth of high quality learning institutions across the region, it
makes sense to create a shortlist of possible choices and then attend their open
days.

Before you go, think through exactly what it is you need to find out, and
consider questions you might want to ask.

An open day is a great opportunity to meet those directly involved with the
course or programme of study you are looking to follow. They are the best source
of information to answer any questions you may have, directly and informatively.

Open days are also a great chance to gain a general and practical insight into
the courses and facilities available at the college.

Many schools, centres and establishments have demonstrations and displays for
you to look at, and you can often try something out for yourself to gain a
better idea of what is on offer.

Even if you don't have any specific course in mind or any particular questions,
open days are a great way of showing what is available and can provide you with
some idea of what subjects may be of interest.

It will also give you the opportunity to gain a real feel for the place you are
thinking of studying at, and can help you decide whether or not it is the right
place for you.

When you attend an open day you'll be able to find out more about daily life at
the sixth form or college concerned.

You'll get the chance to meet staff and students, gain information on all the
courses offered and maybe even attend taster classes so that you can see what it
would be like to study there.

Extra-curricular activities are also an important consideration when choosing a
sixth form or college, so have a look at the facilities available for sports and
leisure, plus any clubs on offer.

And remember, if you are unable to attend an official open day, you should be
able to contact the college and arrange a personal tour to see if it is right
for you.

What to look out for when visiting a sixth form or college: If visiting during
term time, pay attention to the students. How do they behave? Do they appear
happy? Do they seem to have a good relationship with their tutors? Is the
environment clean, bright and inviting? Are the pupils' facilities in good
working order? Don't be afraid to ask as many questions as you need; you want to
be confident you have chosen the right place for you.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Open days can help give you a feel for a sixth form or college

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2015 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              531 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                            January 16, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Open invitation to discover your study options

SECTION: EDUCATION;NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 486 words


WHEN choosing a college or sixth form it's important to gain as much knowledge
and insight as possible about the place where you will complete the last stage
of your journey towards higher education or employment.

And the best way to accomplish this is by attending an open day.

Most further educational schools and colleges hold open days during the school
year to allow prospective pupils to get an idea about daily life within its
walls.

By attending such open days, prospective students will gain an invaluable
opportunity to help make that all-important decision about where to continue
their education.

As there is a wealth of high quality learning institutions across the region, it
makes sense to create a shortlist of possible choices and then attend their open
days.

Before you go, think through exactly what it is you need to find out, and
consider questions you might want to ask.

An open day is a great opportunity to meet those directly involved with the
course or programme of study you are looking to follow. They are the best source
of information to answer any questions you may have, directly and informatively.

Open days are also a great chance to gain a general and practical insight into
the courses and facilities available at the college.

Many schools, centres and establishments have demonstrations and displays for
you to look at, and you can often try something out for yourself to gain a
better idea of what is on offer.

Even if you don't have any specific course in mind or any particular questions,
open days are a great way of showing what is available and can provide you with
some idea of what subjects may be of interest.

It will also give you the opportunity to gain a real feel for the place you are
thinking of studying at, and can help you decide whether or not it is the right
place for you.

When you attend an open day you'll be able to find out more about daily life at
the sixth form or college concerned.

You'll get the chance to meet staff and students, gain information on all the
courses offered and maybe even attend taster classes so that you can see what it
would be like to study there.

Extra-curricular activities are also an important consideration when choosing a
sixth form or college, so have a look at the facilities available for sports and
leisure, plus any clubs on offer.

And remember, if you are unable to attend an official open day, you should be
able to contact the college and arrange a personal tour to see if it is right
for you.

What to look out for when visiting a sixth form or college: If visiting during
term time, pay attention to the students. How do they behave? Do they appear
happy? Do they seem to have a good relationship with their tutors? Is the
environment clean, bright and inviting? Are the pupils' facilities in good
working order? Don't be afraid to ask as many questions as you need; you want to
be confident you have chosen the right place for you.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Open days can help give you a feel for a sixth form or college

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2015 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              532 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                              July 14, 2006 Friday

Flexible links

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 176 words


Some courses have always promoted a flexible approach to study and had strong
links outside the University of Derby.

Engineering, for instance, has seen generations of apprentices from Rolls-Royce,
and other firms, gain qualifications through work-based learning and part-time
study.

Health courses are very experienced at meeting the needs of people working in
the NHS. The school of flexible and partnership learning wants to extend this
approach to other courses.

Higher education is changing. The latest UCAS application figures confirm an
increasing interest in professional and vocational qualifications. When choosing
where to study, applicants now consider their future job prospects first.

Certain traditional once- popular degrees have declined and applicants take
greater care choosing what subjects to study, whether full-time or part-time,
and where and how they learn.

The University of Derby is adapting to meet this, taking account of regional,
national and international economic conditions, and working closely with
employers to meet their needs.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved


                              533 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           January 18, 2018 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Pearson's big ambitions for turnaround yet to pass test

BYLINE: Tom Knowles

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 495 words


The former owner of the Financial Times has revealed a further drop in revenue
amid efforts to transform itself from a media group to an education business.

Pearson, which has made thousands of job cuts in the past four years as part of
a turnaround plan, said that the environment for selling textbooks to American
colleges and universities remained challenging.

The FTSE 100 company was once a sprawling conglomerate, owning the Financial
Times, Madame Tussauds, a 50 per cent stake in The Economist and a 47 per cent
stake in Penguin Random House, the book publisher.

A string of profit warnings prompted it to focus on its role as the world's
largest education publisher. Pearson marks about a quarter of GCSE papers and
administers the British driving theory test.

However, the company has faced a slump in sales in its American operation, where
it provides course materials for two in five college students. Such students
increasingly are choosing to use textbook rental services or free online
materials rather than buying expensive textbooks, causing huge issues for
publishers such as Pearson, which once were able to charge high prices.

A pick-up in the American economy also has led to fewer teenagers enrolling at
colleges, choosing instead to enter full-time employment.

In a full-year trading statement, Pearson said yesterday that demand from
university bookshops was falling, with booksellers becoming increasingly
"cautious" in their orders. Sales dropped by 3 per cent.

This fall contributed to a 4 per cent drop in revenue in its US business, which
accounts for more than 60 per cent of Pearson's revenues and profits. Overall,
the publisher said that it would report a 2 per cent fall in revenues for the
year when its final results were released in February.

Pearson said that revenues from the region in 2018 were likely to be flat at
best and could decline by a "mid-singledigit" amount.

The company has tried to improve its digital offering in America and believes
that this could account for 75 per cent of the business by 2021, although some
analysts have expressed scepticism.

The update caused jitters among investors, especially after Pearson had said in
October that pressures in America were easing. Its shares closed 33½p down at
685p, despite its announcement that full-year adjusted operating profits for
2017 would come in at the top end of market guidance at about £600 million to
£605 million.

The likely rise in profits comes from an improvement in the group's net debt,
which has been driven down by disposals. In July Pearson offloaded almost half
of its holding in Penguin Random House, selling a 22 per cent stake to
Bertelsmann for about $1 billion.

It has chopped its interim dividend from 18p to 5p and cut 3,000 jobs. By 2020
John Fallon, the chief executive, will have reduced Pearson's staff numbers from
39,000 when he took over in 2013 to about 29,000.

10,000 The number of jobs Pearson will cut between 2013 and 2020 Source: Pearson

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2018 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              534 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           January 18, 2018 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Pearson's big ambitions for turnaround yet to pass test

BYLINE: Tom Knowles

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 495 words


The former owner of the Financial Times has revealed a further drop in revenue
amid efforts to transform itself from a media group to an education business.

Pearson, which has made thousands of job cuts in the past four years as part of
a turnaround plan, said that the environment for selling textbooks to American
colleges and universities remained challenging.

The FTSE 100 company was once a sprawling conglomerate, owning the Financial
Times, Madame Tussauds, a 50 per cent stake in The Economist and a 47 per cent
stake in Penguin Random House, the book publisher.

A string of profit warnings prompted it to focus on its role as the world's
largest education publisher. Pearson marks about a quarter of GCSE papers and
administers the British driving theory test.

However, the company has faced a slump in sales in its American operation, where
it provides course materials for two in five college students. Such students
increasingly are choosing to use textbook rental services or free online
materials rather than buying expensive textbooks, causing huge issues for
publishers such as Pearson, which once were able to charge high prices.

A pick-up in the American economy also has led to fewer teenagers enrolling at
colleges, choosing instead to enter full-time employment.

In a full-year trading statement, Pearson said yesterday that demand from
university bookshops was falling, with booksellers becoming increasingly
"cautious" in their orders. Sales dropped by 3 per cent.

This fall contributed to a 4 per cent drop in revenue in its US business, which
accounts for more than 60 per cent of Pearson's revenues and profits. Overall,
the publisher said that it would report a 2 per cent fall in revenues for the
year when its final results were released in February.

Pearson said that revenues from the region in 2018 were likely to be flat at
best and could decline by a "mid-singledigit" amount.

The company has tried to improve its digital offering in America and believes
that this could account for 75 per cent of the business by 2021, although some
analysts have expressed scepticism.

The update caused jitters among investors, especially after Pearson had said in
October that pressures in America were easing. Its shares closed 33½p down at
685p, despite its announcement that full-year adjusted operating profits for
2017 would come in at the top end of market guidance at about £600 million to
£605 million.

The likely rise in profits comes from an improvement in the group's net debt,
which has been driven down by disposals. In July Pearson offloaded almost half
of its holding in Penguin Random House, selling a 22 per cent stake to
Bertelsmann for about $1 billion.

It has chopped its interim dividend from 18p to 5p and cut 3,000 jobs. By 2020
John Fallon, the chief executive, will have reduced Pearson's staff numbers from
39,000 when he took over in 2013 to about 29,000.

10,000 The number of jobs Pearson will cut between 2013 and 2020 Source: Pearson

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2018 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              535 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           January 18, 2018 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Pearson's big ambitions for turnaround yet to pass test

BYLINE: Tom Knowles

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 495 words


The former owner of the Financial Times has revealed a further drop in revenue
amid efforts to transform itself from a media group to an education business.

Pearson, which has made thousands of job cuts in the past four years as part of
a turnaround plan, said that the environment for selling textbooks to American
colleges and universities remained challenging.

The FTSE 100 company was once a sprawling conglomerate, owning the Financial
Times, Madame Tussauds, a 50 per cent stake in The Economist and a 47 per cent
stake in Penguin Random House, the book publisher.

A string of profit warnings prompted it to focus on its role as the world's
largest education publisher. Pearson marks about a quarter of GCSE papers and
administers the British driving theory test.

However, the company has faced a slump in sales in its American operation, where
it provides course materials for two in five college students. Such students
increasingly are choosing to use textbook rental services or free online
materials rather than buying expensive textbooks, causing huge issues for
publishers such as Pearson, which once were able to charge high prices.

A pick-up in the American economy also has led to fewer teenagers enrolling at
colleges, choosing instead to enter full-time employment.

In a full-year trading statement, Pearson said yesterday that demand from
university bookshops was falling, with booksellers becoming increasingly
"cautious" in their orders. Sales dropped by 3 per cent.

This fall contributed to a 4 per cent drop in revenue in its US business, which
accounts for more than 60 per cent of Pearson's revenues and profits. Overall,
the publisher said that it would report a 2 per cent fall in revenues for the
year when its final results were released in February.

Pearson said that revenues from the region in 2018 were likely to be flat at
best and could decline by a "mid-singledigit" amount.

The company has tried to improve its digital offering in America and believes
that this could account for 75 per cent of the business by 2021, although some
analysts have expressed scepticism.

The update caused jitters among investors, especially after Pearson had said in
October that pressures in America were easing. Its shares closed 33½p down at
685p, despite its announcement that full-year adjusted operating profits for
2017 would come in at the top end of market guidance at about £600 million to
£605 million.

The likely rise in profits comes from an improvement in the group's net debt,
which has been driven down by disposals. In July Pearson offloaded almost half
of its holding in Penguin Random House, selling a 22 per cent stake to
Bertelsmann for about $1 billion.

It has chopped its interim dividend from 18p to 5p and cut 3,000 jobs. By 2020
John Fallon, the chief executive, will have reduced Pearson's staff numbers from
39,000 when he took over in 2013 to about 29,000.

10,000 The number of jobs Pearson will cut between 2013 and 2020 Source: Pearson

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2018 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              536 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Global Times (China)

                               May 5, 2014 Monday

Fewer students to take gaokao

BYLINE: Fang Yang

LENGTH: 452  words


gaokao, in Beijing has declined for the eighth consecutive year in 2014, with
about 70,000 registrations, 2,000 fewer than in 2013, the Beijing Youth Daily
reported Sunday."The decline is mainly due to a fall in the number of high
school students," Chu Zhaohui, a research fellow from the National Institute of
Education Sciences, told the Global Times on Sunday.In fact, the nationwide
figure for gaokao participants has also declined over the years, from the peak
of 10.5 million candidates in 2008 to 9.15 million in 2012, according to an
earlier Global Times report.Many experts echoed Chu's view and attributed the
national downward trend to the baby bust in the 1990s. Others believed that
factors such as some students from rural areas gave up on on gaokao due to the
fear of failing the exam, not being able to afford the tuition fees or not
getting a suitable job after graduation also contributed to the decline.At the
same time, more young people are choosing to study abroad and take other exams
necessary to enter foreign universities."The number of students choosing to
study aboard will continue to rise in the coming years with the rising affluence
and more open-minded attitude toward education among Chinese families," said
Zhao Jing, director of the Compubridge Research Institute of College
Planning.The admission rate for gaokao in Beijing this year is predicted to be
81 percent, Yuan Huailian, director of gaokao admissions office with the Beijing
Education Examinations Authority, said on a program of the Beijing Public
Service Radio Saturday.The gaokao admission rate in Beijing has stayed around 80
percent to 85 percent in recent years, The Beijing News reported earlier, noting
that in 2010, it was above 84 percent.Yuan also pointed out that the
universities in Beijing have raised student intake targets in 2014 to 36,700
students, 1,281 more than last year, with the admission rate being predicted at
around 57 percent.

However, the colleges have cut their intake by 1,080 students."This shows that
colleges in Beijing are trying to meet the demand of parents and students to
attend universities," Chu said, noting that the threshold for admission into the
colleges is very low now despite the decrease in the intake target.Yuan said
Beijing will adopt a new bonus point system for gaokao this year, with fewer
items for extra points and lower points assigned to certain items. The specific
number of students who can gain the points will be made public this week.The
system of bonus gaokao points has long been challenged for its lack of
transparency and fairness. Previous policy breaches showed that it leaves room
for abuse of power.The gaokao will take place from June 7 to 8.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1448


                          Copyright 2014 Global Times.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              537 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                             August 31, 2008 Sunday

Get KYUEM edge in university admission

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 545 words


KOLEJ Yayasan UEM (KYUEM) places the utmost importance on helping its students
gain entry into their first-choice university.

At KYUEM, 95 per cent or more of the students go overseas upon completion of
their A-levels each June.

They think about universities and courses at least a year in advance.

While a majority goes to some of the best and most prestigious universities in
the United Kingdom and Ireland, the college also has a small number who go to
top-notch universities in Australia, New Zealand and the US.

To help the students gain entry, KYUEM concentrates on supporting them in their
quest to gain the strongest possible results in their A-level exams in the 18 to
24 months at the college.

The UK, the US and Australia have some of the best universities in the world and
the choice is huge. Each has its own ethos and atmosphere.

Some are small and have a strong corporate or brand identity; others are large
with complete facilities and offer a rich variety of cultural experiences.

Oxford and Cambridge consist of individual colleges. A student will also have to
choose from hundreds of different courses that differ widely in content, style
and teaching method.

It is tempting to apply to what may be regarded as the best universities but it
may be important also to consider some practical issues.

London, for example, is an exciting but also expensive place.

Without proper guidance, choosing a university overseas can be stressful.

The college guides students step by step from choosing suitable university
options to completing the application forms.

Presentations, workshops and mock interviews are organised to get students to
start their research work, choose universities and write the personal statement
- a vital part of the application form.

A dedicated team, comprising a counsellor, tutors and teachers, assists students
in the process.

Special attention is given to interview techniques for those applying to read
medicine and for universities like Oxford and Cambridge.

As a part of the preparatory work, students make presentations and discuss in
small groups various medical issues from the ethical, legal, religious and other
perspectives.

KYUEM students get first-hand information from senior academics and university
admissions tutors from universities like Oxford, Cambridge, Imperial College,
University of Newcastle, University College London and London School of
Economics and from Australian and New Zealand university representatives who
visit the college regularly.

KYUEM alumni still studying in the UK gather annually for a weekend at the
college, and share their experience of studying and living in their respective
universities.

Securing a place to do medicine in a UK or Australian university is extremely
challenging and requires more than just good academic grades.

The college also networks with international officers and admissions tutors,
visiting top universities in the UK and other countries, and entertaining a
large number of university visitors.

To date, the college has placed more than 60 students in Oxford and Cambridge
and this year they have another eight joining these prestigious universities.

The January intake is now open.

For information, call Student Services at 03-64601234 for an appointment or
visit www.kyuem.edu.my.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


                              538 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2017 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                 November 2017

                                 College Mouse

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
URL: www.collegemouse.com

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   College Mouse is an online guide that provides help finding new careers and
college education opportunities. The site formerly operated as
www.degreefinders.com, but has since transitioned to a new brand and domain
(www.collegemouse.com).  We provide hundreds of resources, tips, and tools for
choosing a career, selecting the right course, financing a college degree or
vocational skill, and finding the right job after college. Our online search
tools provide information on over 8,000 colleges, plus detailed state-by-state
profiles to help prospective students make informed decisions about where to
study. Whether you are a high school student exploring your career options or a
working adult looking to switch careers, we have the resources to help you make
the right call.  College Mouse provides a number of features and resources to
help you research your career and college options.  Careers and Jobs: College
Mouse has the tools to make the process of choosing a career easier for you. Our
careers section lists nearly a thousand different careers. Each 'how to become'
job profile features a detailed job description, as well as information on the
education and degree requirements, salary, job outlook, and unemployment rates.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2017


                              539 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                          February 24, 2016 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fewer choices without European language

BYLINE: Aoife Walsh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 639 words


THIS week, we look at an important question facing transition year and third
year students as they make decisions that may influence their post-Leaving Cert
choices. Many people wrongly believe that if a student does not study a language
for the Leaving Cert they will not be able to attend university or any third
level institution. However, this is not the case.

Some schools allow students not to take a language at Leaving Cert, however, the
decision to drop a language should not be taken lightly. Not having a language
in the Leaving Cert can greatly impact on choices in the future.

Most third level colleges do not require entrants to have a European language in
order to meet the matriculation requirement. At Trinity College Dublin students
are required to pass English and another language, and maths or Latin. The
matriculation requirements for Dublin City University are maths and English or
Irish. University of Limerick requires students to present English, maths and
Irish or another language. So, a student who does not take a foreign language at
Leaving Cert should meet the requirements for these universities as long as they
take Irish, or have an Irish exemption.

Institutes of technology generally expect students to have passes in English and
maths so not choosing a language should have no impact on a candidate's ability
to attend one of these institutions. Post-Leaving Cert (PLC) colleges do not
require students to Contact Aoife at aoifewalsh@independent.ie have taken a
language.

The NUI universities - University College Cork, NUI Galway, University College
Dublin and Maynooth University - require students to have passes at ordinary
level English and Irish. Students must also pass a third language to take
courses in the arts, human science, law, social science, commerce, medicine and
health sciences and some other degrees. Students are not required to pass a
language for entry to engineering or agricultural science.

A modern European language will also be required for application to cadetships
in the defence forces.

So, while not choosing a language will not affect entry to the majority of third
level institutions, it will restrict choice, as students will be excluded from
the majority of courses in the four NUI universities.

A student with an Irish exemption may apply for an exemption from the
requirement to present Irish as a matriculation subject from their chosen
institution. They may also apply to NUI for an exemption from the requirement to
take a third language.

All Level 8 courses require students to achieve two C3s at higher level and four
D3s at ordinary level, while Trinity College Dublin requires students to achieve
three C3s at higher level and three D3s at ordinary level.

Aoife Walsh is a guidance counsellor at Malahide Community School, Co Dublin QI
am a person with a minor disability and interested in studying in Denmark. How
do I to find out about grants etc.? A In Ireland the main source of financial
support for a third level student is the SUSI grant. If you qualify, you may
bring this grant with you to study in Europe. There is additional support
available students with disabilities through the student assistance fund (more
information on www.studentfinance.ie).

There is also a grant available in the Danish system called the supplementary
disability grant. You will be eligible for a supplementary grant if your
disability makes it difficult or impossible for you to take a student job in
addition to your studies. To be eligible you must be able to document that your
disability is permanent. You can find more information studying in Denmark and
financial support at www.Eunicas.ie.

If you choose to pursue third level in Denmark it would be advisable to discuss
your situation and possible assistance with the university.

Contact Aoife at aoifewalsh@independent.ie

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              540 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2017 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                 November 2017

                         College Planning Partners LLC

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
URL: www.mycollegeplanningpartner.com

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
EMPLOYEES: 12

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   College Planning Partners is committed to helping your family chart a
powerful and inspiring course for the future, from choosing a college to
choosing a career. Our strategies provide simple, reliable solutions for meeting
the challenges of getting into and paying for college.

* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *

REVENUE: USD 2,400,000

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2017


                              541 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                            February 9, 2009 Monday

Tunney side of the street

BYLINE: Jim Tunney On the Tunney side of the street

SECTION: SPORTS; Columnists

LENGTH: 416 words


A fter further review ... A headline in a recent publication caught my eye: "Why
worry about who's No. 1, when education is No. 2?" was a reference to high
school football recruits in choosing a college. As a lifelong educator, it
certainly seems that education has taken a back seat for high school football
stars enrolling in colleges and universities.

"You go to school to learn" we were told when we were young. Guess that's
changed when it comes to athletic pursuits.

The month of February is when graduating high school football players are able
to commit to a college/university. Some of these players have been recruited or
at least tracked throughout their high school career. They are labeled blue
chippers.

So what criteria do those blue chippers use to decide which college/university
to attend? Well, try this: 1) Is my ability good enough to make the team or will
I sit on the bench? 2) How is the school ranked in the Bowl Championship Series?
3) Does the school have a course of study to match my interests? Please note
that while education is listed here as No. 3, there may be other factors that
precede it; for example: Who's the coach? Is the school located in the type of
climate I want? What is the school's offer in terms of my free ride
(scholarship, et al) plus fringe benefits?

It is apparent that some football players go to college only to move on to the
NFL, so then the question becomes: who cares what the education/academic level
is? May I remind athletes who think in those terms, that of all the hundreds of
college football players eligible (one does not have to graduate), the NFL
drafts about 350 each year; and of those drafted, less than 100 "make it" in the
NFL.

So if one goes to school to learn and his chances of getting a set-for-life
salary are minimal, what criteria should be used in choosing a school of higher
education? Graduation from college seems to be irrelevant.

When you review the Federal Graduation rate of teams playing in the BCS, one
finds that the two teams that played for the 2008 championship   Florida and
Oklahoma   graduate only 36 percent of their football players. Other schools in
the top BCS teams in 2008 had graduation rates 30 percent below those of other
students in their schools.

Will you keep education as a priority, along with sports, in selecting a
college?

For more information about Jim Tunney, visit his Web site www.JimTunney.com , or
if you would like to respond to this message, send your e-mail to
Jim@JimTunney.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              542 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                              May 28, 2006 Sunday

Colleges learning importance of Web-based recruiting efforts;
Prospective students turn to the Internet for behind-the-scenes insight

BYLINE: HEATHER HOLLINGSWORTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; Pg. a17

LENGTH: 499 words

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY, Mo.


Students considering attending the University of Missouri are logging onto the
Internet and reading online journals featuring tales of sipping coffee at a
local hangout and signing a lease on a new apartment.

The blogs are more than sophomoric ramblings about college life. They are one of
several Web-based recruitment strategies colleges across the country are
employing as they attempt to lure tech-savvy high-schoolers to their campuses.

As college admission deadlines loom, high-schoolers are increasingly turning to
the Internet for behind-the-scenes insight. Next to campus visits, according to
one study, schools' Internet sites are the most important tool high-school
seniors use when evaluating and choosing a college.

Such sites now rank higher than high school visits from campus representatives
and direct mailings in importance as recruitment strategies, said Steve Kappler,
an executive director at Stamats Inc., a Cedar Rapids, Iowa, firm that provides
consulting services to about 100 colleges and universities a year.

The importance of the Internet has schools beefing up their Web sites.

Calvin College, a Christian school in Grand Rapids, Mich., enables its
prospective students to arrange furniture in their residence hall rooms using an
online program dubbed the "Dormulator."

North Dakota State University's Web site matches current and potential students
with similar interests and encourages the interested students to e-mail
questions about life on the Fargo campus.

And students at Franklin & Marshal College in Lancaster, Pa., muse about college
life in video Web logs, called "vlogs."

Providing students a less-edited view of campus life creates challenges for
school officials worried that typos or inappropriate material might harm the
school's image.

But Kappler said the casualness of the blogs is what students find appealing.
And he urged schools to leave the blogs unedited unless they contain something
"egregious."

That's the approach taken at the University of Missouri-Columbia and Ball State
University in Muncie, Ind.

"We wanted them to be authentic," said Nancy Prater, the Web content coordinator
at the Indiana school, where the blogs have averaged more than 10,000 visits per
day since Christmas break. "If we got too involved as marketing experts in
editing their words, it wouldn't sound right at all. You can't get into that
mode when you aren't a student. We would rather have spelling and grammatical
errors and have it be authentic than have it be perfect and not authentic."

She said that when she talks to colleagues at conferences, one of the main
things keeping people from blogging is the "the fear factor of turning it loose
and having it a little less controlled."

But she noted that prospective students already have unedited glimpses of
college life, thanks to college networking site Facebook.com and MySpace.com, a
popular Web hangout for teens and young adults.

"I think you are a lot better off choosing the people talking about you," she
said.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              543 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                              May 8, 2008 Thursday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Help to mix pets and kids;
ADULT LEARNING: College's unusual one-day course

BYLINE: By Staff Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 308 words


PETS and children don't always mix well - but a new one-day course at
Warwickshire College can help make the situation easier.

The course also offers an introduction to more specialised areas of animal
health, care, welfare and behaviour and is an ideal taster course for people
interested in the full and parttime programmes of study offered by Warwickshire
College's animal welfare and veterinary nursing department.

The one-day course will provide you with all the information you need to make
the introduction of pets and children a safe and successful experience for all
the family.

It will help if you are:

About to become a parent and are worried about introducing an existing family
pet to the new baby.

Planning to take on a new pet and already have a family.

Concerned about choosing the right kind of pet for your family.

Concerned that your pets might carry harmful disease.

Concerned about behaviour shown by your pet that worries you.

In the morning session between 10am and midday, subjects covered will be
introducing pets to babies and toddlers, preparing pets for new arrivals, common
behaviour of dogs, cats and small animals, and a behaviour clinic looking at
pets and their problems.

In the afternoon, from 12.45pm to 2.45pm, the course will look at choosing the
correct kind of pet for your family, common health problems in family pets,
protecting your family from animal disease and protecting your pet from disease
and ill-health.

The course costs pounds 40 and is being run at three Warwickshire College
campuses:

Wednesday, June 4 - Moreton Morrell, near Wellesbourne.

Wednesday, June 11 - Leamington Centre, Warwick New Road, Leamington.

Wednesday, July 9 - Birmingham Nature Centre, Pershore Road, Birmingham.

For more information contact Jane Weldon, the animal welfare and veterinary
nursing short course administrator, on 01926 318359.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              544 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 30, 2016 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

When it comes to negotiating skills, women are a good deal better

BYLINE: Danny Boyle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 377 words


IF you're looking to strike a deal, make sure there's a woman in the
negotiations, research suggests.

A satisfactory compromise is more likely when a female is central to the
decision-making, it claims.

Whether it is a married couple choosing a new car, two friends booking a holiday
or business colleagues investing in stocks and shares, if one is of the fairer
sex, they will take fewer risks. But when an all-male group tries to negotiate,
chances are the offers will be too high or too low.

Men making decisions together are dismissive of compromise and more likely to
"assert their masculinity" by going for an extreme deal, said the research by
business school leaders. They tested a range of buying and selling situations -
from purchasing a torch, a car, or stocks and shares, to choosing a lottery
ticket with a different range of prizes - on nearly 900 volunteers split into
pairs.

When a woman had to make a purchasing decision with another man or woman, the
outcome was more likely to involve a compromise, said the Journal of Consumer
Research.

But two men together would end up at one extreme or the other, the team from the
Carroll School of Management at Boston College, US, found. For instance, a pair
of men going to buy a car chose one that is the fastest, most fuelefficient or
the safest.

But if a woman was involved, the car was more likely to be one that combined the
best of all elements. Hristina Nikolova, assistant professor of marketing, said:
"When men are in the presence of other men, they feel the need to prove their
masculinity.

"Both tend to push away from the compromise option because it is consistent with
feminine norms. On the other hand, extremism is a more masculine trait, so
that's why both male partners tend to prefer an extreme option when making
decisions together."

The experiments involved 1,200 students conducting deals as pairs or individuals
plus another 673 doing deals online.

Prof Nikolova added: "No matter what the product is, we see the same effects.
The compromise effect basically emerges in any pair when there is a woman.

"However, when you have men choosing together, they tend to push away from the
compromise option."

'When men are in the presence of other men, they feel the need to prove their
masculinity'

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2016 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              545 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday

More grads still opting to start own businesses

BYLINE: ZHAO XINYING

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 543 words


The percentage of Chinese college graduates choosing to start their own
businesses has risen for three consecutive years, a survey shows.

It also found that the average monthly salary of self-employed graduates is
higher than those who are not.

Of the college students who graduated in 2013, 2.3 percent started their own
business, higher than the figure for 2012 (2 percent), 2011 (1.6 percent) and
2010 (1.5 percent).

This is according to the 2014 Chinese College Graduates' Employment Annual
Report, released on Monday by MyCOS, an education consulting and research
institute in Beijing.

The survey polled 268,000 graduates from 28 provinces and regions.

Chen Yu, vice-president of the China Association for Employment Promotion, said
the increase results from government efforts in recent years to support
graduates in starting their own businesses, such as reduced intervention, the
offer of micro loans and cuts in taxes and fees.

"These measures provide a good environment for college graduates who intend to
start their own businesses," Chen said.

The survey also found the education sector is graduates' preferred choice when
they decide to start a business, with 15 percent of them choosing to begin their
careers in this area.

Other areas, including retail, wholesale, architecture, media, information and
telecoms, are among the top choices.

Feng Lijuan, chief consultant at 51job.com, a major recruiting website in China,
said starting a business in these fields is comparatively easier and college
graduates have a bigger chance of keeping their businesses going.

"The education sector, especially test-oriented training, is expanding quickly
in China and therefore college graduates, as a group of highly educated people,
can easily find a place in it," Feng said.

As for the retail and wholesale industries, Feng said a series of online trading
websites such as taobao.com provide a simple and convenient platform for college
graduates to establish their own online stores.

The report shows that only 8 percent of self-employed college graduates started
their own businesses because of difficulty in landing jobs, while 48 percent did
so because they wanted to become entrepreneurs.

Other reasons include having good entrepreneurial ideas, being invited by
friends or peers to start a business together and believing in the income
prospects of entrepreneurship.

The report said college students who started their own businesses after
graduating in 2010 now earn an average of 8,424 yuan ($1,349) a month, 41
percent higher than the average for all college students who graduated that
year.

Despite the good incomes earned by college graduate entrepreneurs, experts
voiced concern for such businesses.

Feng believes that real entrepreneurship lies in innovative developments in
areas such as the high-tech sector.

"But most Chinese college graduates can't make it with their current knowledge
structure and therefore most of the Chinese graduate entrepreneurs end up in the
service industry."

Chen said, "An ideal entrepreneurship program can solve the problem of college
graduates' employment and also create new industries and promote the development
of the economy, science and technology, just like Steve Jobs and Apple did."

zhaoxinying@chinadaily.com.cn

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved


                              546 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                              June 13, 2016 Monday

Students, parents get doubts cleared about NEET, admission process

LENGTH: 503  words

DATELINE: KALABURAGI


KALABURAGI, June 13 -- The annual career counselling and guidance session
organised by The Hindu EducationPlus here on Sunday turned out to be a focal
point for students aspiring to join professional courses and their parents to
clear their doubts about the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET).


 Both the inaugural session and the question-and-answer-session held at the
Doddappa Appa Auditorium were dominated by questions related to the NEET and
about the career options available in courses other than medical and engineering
streams.
 Member of the Central Council of Homoeopathy P. Sampath Rao, who is also senate
member of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) spoke at length
about the NEET and the Supreme Court judgement making the NEET compulsory for
entry into medical and dental colleges.
 Answering a volley of questions from students on the NEET, Dr. Rao said that
the NEET was here to stay and admissions to private medical colleges, deemed
varsities and private universities running medical colleges would be through
NEET only. Apprehensions that students from other States would gobble up the
seats available in medical and dental colleges were unfounded. He said that
except the 15 per cent seats reserved for the all-India quota, the remaining
would be filled by students from respective States.
 Prof Emiritus of RGUHS and senior medical teacher P.S. Shankar, who inaugurated
the session, said that students should look into career options other than
medical and engineering courses and pointed out that there was a serious
shortage of manpower in the teaching profession, particularly in science
education.
 Students should give a serious consideration to pursuing basic science courses
while shaping their academic career. An undergraduate degree in medical and
engineering courses would not be enough and the students would have to take up
postgraduation and specialisation and upgrade their skills before settling in
their careers.
 Sangeetha Kattimani, representing the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA),
gave an insight into the modalities that would have to be followed by the
students appearing for CET counselling and the records that were required to be
produced. She also said that the students from the region should make the best
use of the reservation facilities available under Article 371 (J) in getting
admission to best available colleges.
 Human resource expert Tanveer Ahmed kept the jam-packed audience glued to their
seats with his power-packed presentation on the avenues available in higher
education and said that the students should assess their strengths and weakness
while choosing their career options and should not succumb to pressure while
choosing their career options.
 Baath Reddy, chief executive officer, Navodaya Education Trust, provided
details about the opportunities available in engineering courses and senior
gastroenterologist Shivanand Patil replied to the questions posed by the
students on the options available in the medical stream.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              547 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                            April 30, 2009 Thursday
                        1 - First with the news Edition

Code-war teen opts for path in league

BYLINE: Ben Dorries

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 85

LENGTH: 306  words


YOUNG Brisbane footy star Bryce Hegarty has ended a cross-code war for his
services by choosing rugby league over rugby union.

As The Courier-Mail reported yesterday, the 16-year-old playmaker was forced to
make the biggest call of his life between the rival codes.

He decided yesterday he would line up for the Norths Devils in their national
ARL league under-18 finals clash against the Bulldogs in western Sydney on
Saturday.

It would appear an astute career move given Brisbane Broncos officials last
night confirmed the talented halfback had been contracted by the club on the
strength of his performances for Norths.

He is one of several Devils players who have been recruited by the Broncos.

The footy prodigy, who attends renowned rugby union school Marist College, an
AIC school, had been told by school officials he must play in a rugby union
trial on the same day.

Norths coach Gary Bishop said he had received a mobile phone text message from
Hegarty yesterday, indicating he would play league on the weekend.

``The kid just wants to play league at Norths,'' Bishop said. ``The school is
now starting to be quite good about it. We have stopped banging heads against
each other's walls.''

By choosing league over union, the youngster now risks not being considered for
top-grade rugby union for his school side.

But it is believed Marist may have relaxed their stance to some degree and there
remains a chance Hegarty could still pursue a spot in the top-grade union team.

Marist College head of sport Brendan Kiernan said he hoped a compromise
situation could be worked out for similar situations in the future.

``There is no simple answer to this sort of thing and quite often there is not
really any winner,'' Kiernan said. ``At our first grade level we want to pick
players who display commitment, discipline and loyalty to the team.''

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CML


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              548 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald-Tribune (Florida)

                          February 15, 2006 Wednesday
                                MANATEE EDITION

Spirituality author Motlagh visiting Baha'i Center

BYLINE: Staff Report

SECTION: B SECTION; Pg. BM4

LENGTH: 393 words


Hugh Motlagh, author of spiritually related books, will be make a special visit
to Manatee County.

He will discuss "Choosing Your Destiny" during a presentation at 8 p.m. Friday
at the Baha'i Center, 6404 Manatee Ave. W., Bradenton. There will be time to ask
of questions, as well as a period for fellowship and refreshment.

Books Motlagh has written include "One God, Many Faiths; One Garden, Many
Flowers," "The Glorious Journey to God," "Choosing Your Destiny," "A Messenger
of Joy," "On Wings of Destiny," "I Shall Come Again," "Lord of Lords," "King of
Kings," "The Glory of the Father," "Come Now, Let Us Reason Together," "Proclaim
the Most Great Name" and "Teaching: the Crown of Immortal Glory."

For more information, call Shirley Mather at 741-4922.

Music students can audition for MCC scholarships

Vocal and instrumental music students who plan to attend classes at Manatee
Community College can audition for scholarships.

Music Program auditions begin at 10 a.m. Saturday in the Music Building, No. 11,
at MCC, 5840 26th St. W., Bradenton. Another audition session will be April 29.

The program at MCC includes performing ensembles, classes and applied music
lessons that provide educational and performance opportunities for musicians of
all ages.

For more information or to schedule an audition, call the Music Program office
at 752-5351.

'8 Dimensions of Excellence' seminar

A seminar by Robin Lawton, president of International Management Technologies
Inc., will focus on overcoming obstacles in achieving goals.

"8 Dimensions of Excellence" will be from 9 to 11 a.m. Feb. 21 at the East
County Office of the Manatee Chamber of Commerce, 6150 State Road 70 E.,
Bradenton.

The fee is $50 for chamber members and $100 for nonmembers. Reservations are due
Friday by calling Jahna Leinhauser at 782-5700 or sending an e-mail to
JahnaL@ManateeChamber.com.

Coast Guard graduates Fodor

Coast Guard Seaman Joseph A. Fodor graduated from the U.S. Coast Guard Recruit
Training Center in Cape May, N.J.

He is the son of Randy A. Fodor of Bradenton and Missy A. Fodor of Marathon.

Brown completes Navy training

Navy Seaman Recruit Aaron N. Brown recently completed U.S. Navy basic training
at Recruit Training Command, Great Lakes, Ill.

He is the son of Melissa A. Ellinger of Bradenton and Jack L. Brown of
Arlington, Texas, and is a 2005 graduate of Arlington High School.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.


                              549 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                           January 4, 2006, Wednesday

CHOOSING A 529 COLLEGE-SAVINGS PLAN: WHEN IT MAKES SENSE TO GO OUT OF STATE

BYLINE: BY JONATHAN CLEMENTS

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 2

LENGTH: 77 words


Getting Going column offers advice to parents on choosing a '529' college
-savings plan; as a rough rule of thumb, parents in high-tax states that offer
tax-deductible plans, and whose children are within seven or eight years of
college, should seriously consider funding their in-state plan; parents with
longer time frames, and whose in-state plan has annual expenses greater than
0.8% of assets, might do better with a low-cost out-of-state plan; chart (M)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

GRAPHIC: Graph

              Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              550 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday

More grads still opting to start own businesses

BYLINE: Zhao Xinying

LENGTH: 555  words


The percentage of Chinese college graduates choosing to start their own
businesses has risen for three consecutive years, a survey shows.

It also found that the average monthly salary of self-employed graduates is
higher than those who are not.

Of the college students who graduated in 2013, 2.3 percent started their own
business, higher than the figure for 2012 (2 percent), 2011 (1.6 percent) and
2010 (1.5 percent).

This is according to the 2014 Chinese College Graduates' Employment Annual
Report, released on Monday by MyCOS, an education consulting and research
institute in Beijing.

The survey polled 268,000 graduates from 28 provinces and regions.

Chen Yu, vice-president of the China Association for Employment Promotion, said
the increase results from government efforts in recent years to support
graduates in starting their own businesses, such as reduced intervention, the
offer of micro loans and cuts in taxes and fees.

"These measures provide a good environment for college graduates who intend to
start their own businesses," Chen said.

The survey also found the education sector is graduates' preferred choice when
they decide to start a business, with 15 percent of them choosing to begin their
careers in this area.

Other areas, including retail, wholesale, architecture, media, information and
telecoms, are among the top choices.

Feng Lijuan, chief consultant at 51job.com, a major recruiting website in China,
said starting a business in these fields is comparatively easier and college
graduates have a bigger chance of keeping their businesses going.

"The education sector, especially test-oriented training, is expanding quickly
in China and therefore college graduates, as a group of highly educated people,
can easily find a place in it," Feng said.

As for the retail and wholesale industries, Feng said a series of online trading
websites such as taobao.com provide a simple and convenient platform for college
graduates to establish their own online stores.

The report shows that only 8 percent of self-employed college graduates started
their own businesses because of difficulty in landing jobs, while 48 percent did
so because they wanted to become entrepreneurs.

Other reasons include having good entrepreneurial ideas, being invited by
friends or peers to start a business together and believing in the income
prospects of entrepreneurship.

The report said college students who started their own businesses after
graduating in 2010 now earn an average of 8,424 yuan ($1,349) a month, 41
percent higher than the average for all college students who graduated that
year.

Despite the good incomes earned by college graduate entrepreneurs, experts
voiced concern for such businesses.

Feng believes that real entrepreneurship lies in innovative developments in
areas such as the high-tech sector.

"But most Chinese college graduates can't make it with their current knowledge
structure and therefore most of the Chinese graduate entrepreneurs end up in the
service industry."

Chen said, "An ideal entrepreneurship program can solve the problem of college
graduates' employment and also create new industries and promote the development
of the economy, science and technology, just like Steve Jobs and Apple did."

zhaoxinying@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily 06/10/2014 page4)

Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              551 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                            November 8, 2009 Sunday
                                  City Edition

On-campus housing leads to togetherness

BYLINE: HEATHER WARLICK-MOORE, Staff Writer<br>hwarlick@opubco.com

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 06

LENGTH: 425 words


Sarah Wylie lives in a dorm room on campus at University of Central Oklahoma in
Edmond and she loves it.

"If I lived off campus, I wouldn't have met a third of the people that I've met
living on campus. You're a lot more involved," she said.

For her, living on campus is the best option because she's close to her classes,
close to food and close to her new friends.

"You hear about stuff more than you would if you lived off campus and you have
the chance to participate in more. I think it's a lot of fun," she said.

Now that she's acclimated to university life, Wylie works in the student housing
office at UCO, helping other students make decisions about housing options.

Wylie knows first-hand that moving away from home to live on campus can be scary
and exciting for first-time college freshmen. From choosing a roommate to
choosing how to decorate your new dorm room, there is much to consider.

Like UCO, most universities offer a wealth of information about their housing
options on their Web sites. But there is no substitute to taking a tour of the
university housing options and talking to someone who actually lives there.

At UCO, students are not required to live on campus but it can be a great
experience for freshmen, Wylie said. The school has several options for student
housing. Students can choose from the all-girls, all-boys, or co-ed dorms. The
university offers suite-style rooms without kitchens and apartments with full
kitchens. Prices range from $300 to about $700 per person.

Dorms help freshmen

At the University of Oklahoma in Norman, students have similar choices in
housing. Adams, Couch and Walker Centers offer suite-style living and Cate
Center and the Academic Arts Community are quads, which provide community-style
living.

"OU guarantees housing to freshmen because research shows that those students
living on campus typically are more inclined to remain in college and achieve
higher grade-point averages in comparison to those students living off campus,"
said Aaron Lindley, marketing and public relations specialist at OU.

At OU, each student room features free basic cable and high-speed Internet.

More than 5,000 students live on the Oklahoma State University campus in
Stillwater, OSU officials say. The university has 25 residence halls, with more
than 30 dining options and seven family-first apartment neighborhoods.

All freshmen are required to live on campus and exemptions from this are rare.

Check with your campus housing office as soon as possible to make the
arrangements. The space fills fast.



LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COLLEGE BOUND SPECIAL SECTION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              552 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 30, 2016 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

When it comes to negotiating skills, women are a good deal better

BYLINE: Danny Boyle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 378 words


IF you're looking to strike a deal, make sure there's a woman in the
negotiations, research suggests.

A satisfactory compromise is more likely when a female is central to the
decision-making, it claims.

Whether it is a married couple choosing a new car, two friends booking a holiday
or business colleagues investing in stocks and shares, if one is of the fairer
sex, they will take fewer risks.

But if when an all-male group tries to negotiate, chances are the offers will be
too high or too low.

Men making decisions together are dismissive of compromise and more likely to
"assert their masculinity" by going for an extreme deal, said the research by
business school leaders. They tested a range of buying and selling situations -
from purchasing a torch, a car, or stocks and shares, to choosing a lottery
ticket with a different range of prizes - on nearly 900 volunteers split into
pairs.

When a woman had to make a purchasing decision with another man or woman, the
outcome was more likely to involve a compromise, said the Journal of Consumer
Research.

But two men together would end up at one extreme or the other, the team from the
Carroll School of Management at Boston College, US, found. For instance, a pair
of men going to buy a car chose one that is the fastest, most fuelefficient or
the safest.

But if a woman was involved, the car was more likely to be one that combined the
best of all elements. Hristina Nikolova, assistant professor of marketing, said:
"When men are in the presence of other men, they feel the need to prove their
masculinity. Both tend to push away from the compromise option because it is
consistent with feminine norms. On the other hand, extremism is a more masculine
trait, so that's why both male partners tend to prefer an extreme option when
making decisions together." The experiments involved 1,200 students conducting
deals as pairs or individuals plus another using 673 doing deals online.

Prof Nikolova added: "No matter what the product is, we see the same effects.
The compromise effect basically emerges in any pair when there is a woman.

"However, when you have men choosing together, they tend to push away from the
compromise option."

'When men are in the presence of other men, they feel the need to prove their
masculinity'

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2016 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              553 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 4, 2007 Tuesday

JSU students increasingly choosing to live off-campus

BYLINE: Sara Polsky, The Anniston Star, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 677 words


Sep. 4--As JSU students began the new school year only a fraction moved into
dorms, the stereotypical back-to-college scenario.

JSU has about 9,000 students and 1,600 on-campus beds, roughly 96 percent of
which were occupied last year, according to Rochelle Smith, assistant director
of JSU's housing office.

So a far greater number of the students move at the start of each year into
apartments and houses in Jacksonville, becoming the nine-month neighbors of
Jacksonville's permanent residents.

The number of apartments under construction in Jacksonville has increased each
year in the past several years. Just more than 30 apartments per year were built
in the city in 2005 and 2006. More than 200 have been built this year, 192 of
those at The Grove, an apartment complex geared toward JSU students.

Many students who live off-campus are renters, but some live in houses their
parents have purchased. Area real estate agents say parents often look at the
purchase of a home for a child attending JSU as an investment.

"You make more money really investing in real estate than just about anything
else right now," said Amy Angel, an agent with Billy Isom Real Estate in
Jacksonville. Parents often purchase a house for a child's freshman year and
sell it once the student graduates, she said.

Ashley Brown, a JSU sophomore, said her parents put down 20 percent of the cost
of the house she and her roommates own in Jacksonville, and they pay the
mortgage every month. Having the house gives her an opportunity to build credit
and avoid spending money on rent, she said.

Brown likes the quiet of her own house compared to a dorm. "I'm so far away from
home that it makes me feel like I have a home," said Brown, who's from Indiana.

Occasionally, college students' presence in a neighborhood causes tensions.
Brown said her older neighbors get annoyed at the college students living around
them, but that she thinks the neighbors should move rather than complain. "They
live right by the university...everybody in the neighborhood but them is young."

But Mark Williams, Jacksonville's code enforcement officer and building
inspector, said he gets only about five calls a year about college students.

Once, Williams said, some college students had a couch on their roof. "I had to
go ask them to take the couch off the house because it was a residential
neighborhood," he said.

"When the students leave for the summer and no one's there to take care of the
yard, that can be a problem," he added. "And for some reason, kids like to
collect junk cars." But Williams said he doesn't see students living in
Jacksonville's residential areas as a problem.

Angel said parents who look for houses for their kids in Jacksonville pay
anywhere from $50,000 to $150,000, a price tag in line with what first or
second-time home buyers generally spend.

"There are a number of parents that come in and, rather than pay rent, they look
for a good investment home," said Donna Reger, a realtor with ERA King Real
Estate in Jacksonville.

Rick Casey and his wife bought a house for their daughter, who attended JSU, in
order to begin building her credit history and to collect assets for their
retirement. The Caseys rented other rooms in the house to their daughter's
friends, and their younger daughter also lived in the house when she attended
JSU.

"It's a smart move for them," said Sandi Shaddix, a broker associate at Almaroad
Properties in Jacksonville. "If they're going to be here two to three years,
they're going to come out way ahead."

About Sara Polsky

Sara Polsky is an intern for The Anniston Star. A native of Summit, N.J., Sara
graduated in May from Harvard University.

To see more of The Anniston Star or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.annistonstar.com/. Copyright (c) 2007, The Anniston Star, Ala.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070904-AO-JSU-students-increasingly-choosing-to-live-off-campus-0904

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AO


                                 Copyright 2007


                              554 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                           January 28, 2015 Wednesday

Football recruiting notebook

BYLINE: BY JASON KERSEY, SCOTT WRIGHT AND JACOB UNRUH

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 503 words


Sooners offer Westmoore's GreenNew Oklahoma offensive coordinator Lincoln Riley
made a stop at Westmoore on Tuesday and made an official offer to the state's
top receiver prospect.Riley extended an offer to Washington State commitment
Dahu Green, Westmoore coach Adam Gaylor confirmed.Gaylor said the Sooners are in
the running despite Green's commitment.Green caught 56 passes for 843 yards and
14 touchdowns last season. He constantly made highlight-reel receptions, too,
even making ESPN's SportsCenter neighborhood top-10 plays.He was originally
committed to Louisville, but reopened his commitment in December. He committed
to Washington State earlier this month.SOONER WR TARGET COMMITS TO CALSince
hiring new offensive coordinator Lincoln Riley earlier this month, Oklahoma
coaches have been targeting lots of new wide receivers.Tuesday evening, the
Sooners lost out on one of those late offers.

Dallas Skyline receiver Carlos Strickland committed to Cal, choosing the Golden
Bears over OU, Texas Tech and UCLA.Strickland decommitted from Texas Tech
earlier this month. He is the 12th-ranked wide receiver in the country according
to Rivals.com.Oklahoma has receiver commitments from junior-college transfer
Dede Westbrook and John Humphrey, both of whom are already on campus as early
enrollees.LAWTON'S PATTERSON PICKS K-STATELawton defensive back Darreyl
Patterson verbally committed to Kansas State, choosing the Wildcats over
Oklahoma.Patterson announced his decision on his Twitter page."Just COMMIT to
K-State. #EMAW," he tweeted.Patterson, who was ranked No. 8 on The Oklahoman's
most recent Super 30, primarily played running back last season for the
Wolverines and rushed for 2,071 yards and 20 touchdowns.He will play defensive
back in college, a position for which he was named to The Oklahoman's All-State
team after recording two interceptions and 21 tackles in limited time.Patterson
had eight Division I scholarship offers. He recently went on an official visit
to Oklahoma and has one scheduled for Louisville this weekend. He visited Kansas
State this past weekend.HARRISON CHOOSES UTEPAfter only his second season of
football, Midwest City defensive lineman DeMikal Harrison has secured a spot on
a Division I roster.Harrison, a 6-foot-5, 290-pound senior, verbally committed
to UTEP on Sunday, announcing it on Twitter following his official visit to the
El Paso, Texas, campus.Harrison's size and athleticism make him a versatile
option for the Miners, because he's big enough to play on the interior of the
line, and fast enough to play defensive end. He also had an offer from North
Texas.YUKON'S OWENS PICKS NM STATEYukon cornerback DeMarcus Owens was an
under-the-radar prospect much of the season, but he officially arrived on the
scene Monday night.The 6-foot, 180-pound speedster verbally committed to New
Mexico State, which he posted on Twitter.Owens played both ways for Yukon, using
his quickness as both a defensive back and receiver.BY JASON KERSEY, SCOTT
WRIGHT AND JACOB UNRUH

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2015 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              555 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                              July 4, 2010 Sunday

Let CTC guide you to a top UK varsity

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 506 words


DECIDING on your next step in life can be challenging, especially for those
fresh out of high school.

As ambitious students with an eye for the future, we want to make sure that
courses we take lead us to the right direction in order to achieve our dreams.

If you are aiming to enter into one of the top-notch universities in the UK,
Cambridge Tutors College (CTC) is definitely one to consider.

Established in 1958, CTC consists of about 300 individuals from more than 30
countries. Malaysians are no strangers in contributing to CTC's international
demographics. The first Malaysian enrolled into CTC in 1965. Since then, CTC has
welcomed many more Malaysians, including the daughters of Tunku Abdul Rahman.

Most students at the college are undertaking their A-levels, in which they have
a choice of choosing either a standard two year A-level course or an accelerated
18-month A-level course.

CTC also offers a one-year GCSE (O-level) course as well as English language
programmes to assist students in advancing their writing and English language
skills.

Every CTC classroom consists of no more than nine students to ensure they
receive adequate individual attention from their teachers.

All students are required to sit for weekly tests in every subject to keep them
on their toes.

Learning is not only limited to classroom time, as students are assigned a
personal tutor who is always available to assist them.

An outstanding student should be involved in academic excellence and
extracurricular activities.

A major concern for many students and parents is the fact that students will be
living away from home for the first time. To ease this worry, CTC provides
students with a home-stay programme.

Students are assured of a safe environment with adult supervision while pursuing
an international experience overseas.

CTC assists students in finding suitable universities upon graduation from the
college.

CTC emphasises on students' careers and higher education by providing them with
career resources and advice and guiding them through their university
application processes.

There is also a "preparation for university" lecture to assist students in
preparing for their UCAS application, choosing a university and getting ready
for university life.

Cambridge Tutors College senior adviser David Wilson will be visiting Malaysia
from July 7-10 to conduct seminars on entering top-UK universities and medical
schools and also to meet with students and parents who are keen on sending their
children to the UK.

Contact CTC's sole representative in Malaysia -- ASA Overseas Education
Specialist to schedule an appointment with Wilson and obtain prospectus or
scholarship information.

For details, visit ASA Petaling Jaya Office Lot F106, First Floor Centre Point
(New Wing), 3 Lebuh Bandar Utama, Bandar Utama, 47800 Petaling Jaya, Selangor,
call: 03-77271373 / 03-77291373; fax: 03-77260552 OR visit ASA Penang Office
441-1-7, Pulau Tikus Plaza, Burmah Road, 10350 Penang, call: 04-2270373 /
2280373; fax: 04-2270552; or visit www.ctc.ac.uk

( END )

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2010 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


                              556 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                           August 24, 2016 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Students heading for bright futures

SECTION: OPTIONS;FEATURES; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 351 words


THE only dedicated A-level provider in the city, Newcastle Sixth Form College,
is celebrating after A-level results improved again this year with 100% pass
rate achieved in 24 subjects and 85% of students choosing to progress to
university, a third of which are Russell Group.

For some, it is the opportunity to move away from the region and experience life
elsewhere, while others are sticking to their roots and choosing to stay locally
instead.

George Andrews, 18, has accepted an offer from Cambridge University to study
natural science in September after achieving A*A*AA grades in A-level chemistry,
physics, mathematics and AS further maths.

George, from Newburn, in Newcastle, has always enjoyed science and maths and
hopes to follow a career in scientific research once he has completed his
studies. He said: "Cambridge is one of the top universities in the country, so I
am really pleased that I will be studying there.

"It's been a lot of work, but all worthwhile. I'd like to go into scientific
research after when I've finished my degree, but I'm not sure exactly which area
I would like to specialise in. Studying science gives you a lot of different
career options so I'm just excited about the future."

Elin Sydenham, 19, from Whitley Bay, in North Tyneside, came to Newcastle Sixth
Form College after first studying A-levels at her school sixth form.

Realising that she wanted more independence and a fresh start, Elin enrolled at
Newcastle Sixth Form College and has just achieved the A and two B's she needs
to go to Newcastle University to study civil engineering.

Elin, who also plays netball for a local team, said: "It wasn't until I came to
Newcastle Sixth Form College that I really started to knuckle down and work hard
at my A-levels.

"I really thrived in a more independent environment and I made lots of new
friends. The teachers were really supportive and I loved studying the subjects I
chose.

"The possibilities with engineering are endless. I really enjoy the
infrastructure and sustainability elements of civil engineering, so I am
thinking about maybe specialising in those areas."

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Newcastle Sixth Form College students celebrate their successNancy
Amadasun celebrates her successElin Sydenham is going to study at Newcastle
UniversityNathan Matthews, George Andrews, Sean O'Connell, Jenny Olsen, Nancy
Amadasun, Tasnia BegumMegan Clarke is thrilled with her grades

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TJN


               Copyright 2016 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              557 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Evening News (Norwich)

                           September 19, 2011 Monday

More money for student transport - but worries remain

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 372 words


A decision by Norfolk County Council to increase its transport subsidy for
students aged 16 to 19 has been welcomed but there are fears other proposed
cost-cutting measures will reduce youngsters' choice of where to study.



The authority was looking at slashing its budget for bus travel for sixth-form
and college pupils by £1m as part of its wider programme of cuts.

It would have meant students and their parents faced an increase in the
contributions they were expected to make of about £140 from September next year
in order to save the council £400,000.

But cabinet members have agreed to reduce the extra burden on families by
increasing its planned subsidy for the future by £200,000 - meaning pupils
instead face an extra £70 contribution.

Alison Thomas, cabinet member for children's services, said the authority did
not want to discourage young people from continuing their studies.

The announcement has been widely welcomed.

David Lawrence, principal of Easton College, said: "Finding a solution to enable
students living in rural areas to access further education is both a critical
and a very challenging issue, particularly in such difficult economic times."

But concerns have been expressed about some other cost-cutting measures. Among
the package of proposals is a plan to introduce "core routes" which students
would have to take to qualify for the subsidy.

It aims to cut out what officers call "an unreasonable exercise of choice" which
currently sees some students travelling to colleges and sixth form centres
further away from home when closer options are available. Lib Dem county
councillor Mervyn Scutter said courses on offer was not the only consideration
for pupils choosing colleges and sixth forms.

"It's also about the environment they study in," he said. "They are not choosing
to travel 40 miles because they like to spend all that time on a bus."

Laurie Poulson, principal of East Norfolk Sixth Form College, Gorleston, said
the introduction of core routes would mean pupils who relied on the transport
subsidy would have less choice than those who did not.

Other plans for post-16 transport savings include transferring some of the
responsibility for supporting families on low incomes to schools and colleges.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EEN


                    Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              558 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                              May 25, 2008 Sunday

Enrollment is booming at for-profit career schools;
But at one school, students are claiming fraud, and a critic says students
should be wary of a hard sell.

BYLINE: By Stephanie Gottschlich Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 417 words


With increasing numbers of adults returning to school to boost their skills,
many are choosing for-profit career schools in the hopes of quickly getting
high-paying jobs.

Enrollment growth at Ohio's forprofit career colleges is eclipsing
state-supported and nonprofit private institutions. In 2007, enrollment at
for-profit trade schools was 63,453, up 60 percent from 39,740 in 2000.

Enrollment growth at state and nonprofit private institutions has hovered around
10 percent. Many students are skipping community colleges, choosing for-profit
programs that cost twice or three times as much. Students' claim: But some
students say they aren't getting what they paid for. Seven former Miami-Jacobs
Career College students have sued the school for consumer fraud and breach of
contract, alleging the school knowingly lied when it told them its surgical
technology program was accredited. The students said graduating from an
unaccredited program has prevented them from getting jobs. They seek at least
$25,000 each in damages for tuition fees and lost income.

College's reaction: "We take our role as advocates for these students very
seriously - and make every effort to support them in their decision and to
review with them the details of their commitment," said Darlene Waite, president
of Miami-Jacobs.

What critics are saying: Critics say the students' allegations highlight the
potential pitfalls of for-profit colleges: high-pressure sales tactics that
mislead students about program costs, student loans and employment prospects.

For-profit colleges are guilty of a "recruit at any cost mentality," said David
Hawkins, public policy and research director at the National Association of
College Admissions Counselors, which advocates for bans on such practices.
"Students should be aware that they're going to get hit with a hard sales pitch,
and should take their time to ask questions before enrolling," he said. ?
Article on A6 ? Article on A6 For-profit career schools booming in Ohio

Critics: For-profit colleges

buyer beware The facts

The number of students enrolling in associate degree programs at for-profit
schools increased 86 percent from 15,828 students in 2000 to 29,513 in 2007.

In 2004-05, 30,943 students at for-profit colleges in Ohio received $72.5
million in Pell Grants.

In 2005-06, students attending 2-year for-profit schools borrowed an average of
$5,990 in federal loans - 129 percent more than $2,694 borrowed by students at
community colleges.

Source: U.S. Department of Education

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              559 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           November 9, 2016 Wednesday

Rivals chase final votes

BYLINE: Agencies in Washington

LENGTH: 654  words


After nearly two years of bitterness and rancor, the United States will elect
its 45th president on Tuesday, making Hillary Clinton the nation's first female
commander in chief or choosing billionaire businessman Donald Trump, whose
volatile campaign has upended US politics.

Latest poll shows nation with a strong chance to have its first female commander
in chief

After nearly two years of bitterness and rancor, the United States will elect
its 45th president on Tuesday, making Hillary Clinton the nation's first female
commander in chief or choosing billionaire businessman Donald Trump, whose
volatile campaign has upended US politics.

The winner will inherit an anxious nation, angry and distrustful of leaders in
Washington. They'll preside over an economy that is improving but still leaving
many behind, and a military less extended abroad than eight years ago, but
grappling with new terror threats.

Clinton entered the Election Day with multiple paths to victory, while Trump
must win most of the roughly dozen battleground states up in order to clinch 270
Electoral College votes.

Like millions of voters, Clinton and Trump cast their votes on Tuesday morning.
The Democrat voted in a polling place near her home in Chappaqua, New York,
while the Republican voted in Manhattan.

The latest Reuters/Ipsos opinion poll gave Clinton a 90 percent chance of
defeating Trump, seeing her on track to win 303 Electoral College votes to
Trump's 235.

The opinion polls measuring popular support for each candidate showed Clinton
narrowly ahead. She had a 5 percentage point lead over Trump nationally, with 44
percent to 39 percent support.

World markets braced for the outcome of one of the most contentious US
presidential elections in history, with stocks up slightly on cautious
expectations of a Clinton win. The dollar and bond yields slipped, while gold
inched up.

The candidates blitzed through the battleground states on Monday, accompanied by
their families, political allies and celebrities.

In the campaign's final hours, the Democrat was buoyed by FBI Director James
Comey's weekend announcement that he would not recommend criminal charges
against her following a new email review. The inquiry had sapped surging Clinton
momentum at a crucial moment in the race and risked damaging Democrats running
in down-ballot races.

Clinton never mentioned the FBI review on Monday and appeared to already have an
eye on the challenges waiting after election.

The centerpiece of her final campaign swing was a massive rally in Philadelphia,
where she was joined by her husband, former president Bill Clinton, as well as
President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama.

Trademark style

Trump closed his improbable presidential bid in trademark style: Flying across
the country in his now-familiar private jet and headlining packed rallies filled
with enthusiastic supporters. As he surveyed the crowd in Scranton,
Pennsylvania, he declared: "It's been a long journey."

Trump ended his marathon final day of campaigning with a final rally in Grand
Rapids, Michigan, where he implored his supporters to get out and vote.

"If we don't win, this will be the single greatest waste of time, energy and
money in my life," he told them. "We have to win."

Trump's final event at a local convention center was surprisingly staid, with
none of the theatrics of an earlier rally in a packed arena in New Hampshire
that featured laser lights and smoke machines.

The businessman was aggressive to the end, slamming Clinton as the "face of
failure". Having made the new FBI review a centerpiece of his closing case to
voters, he argued that the Democrat was being protected by a "totally rigged
system".

Election workers verify mail-in ballots at the San Diego County Elections Office
in San Diego, California, on Monday.Mike Blake/reuters

(China Daily 11/09/2016 page12)

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/71/147867712935.jpg

00221917e13e198cb53636.jpg

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              560 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Newcastle Herald (Australia)

                                January 20, 2016

BYLINE: Matthew Kelly and Damon Cronshaw

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 408  words


The University of Newcastle says its reputation for excellence in science and
engineering is helping to attract some of the best and brightest prospective
students from across the country.

The institution has again experienced an increase in applications for programs
including engineering, surveying, architecture and industrial design.

'We know that we are operating in a highly competitive marketplace and students
rightly consider a range options when they nominate their preferences. We are
thrilled that prospective students are recognising that our teaching and
research is ranked among the best in the world and they are choosing to study
with us,' vice-chancellor Caroline McMillen said.

'To be able to attend one of Australia's top eight universities is something
that increasing numbers of students find highly desirable.'

The university is also holding its own among the region's school leavers in an
increasingly competitive higher education student market place.

More than 80 per cent of this year's offers have gone to students from the
Hunter, Central Coast and Mid North Coast regions.

'The quality of students choosing to study at Newcastle continues to be high,'
deputy vice-chancellor, academic, Andrew Parfitt said.

Areas with the largest number of offers were nursing, arts, teaching and
business.

A quarter of offers went to applicants with an ATAR of 90.25 or higher.

The median ATAR of applicants who received an offer was 82.75.

More than 10,000 applications were received from those choosing the University
of Newcastle as its first preference.

The institution made more than 4100 main round offers on Wednesday taking the
number of total offers made this year to 8399.

While the majority of the main round offers went to school leavers, 1126 offers
to students who qualified through other paths, such as Open Foundation.

Professor McMillen said the university's centre of excellence for equity in
higher education was a significant national asset that other universities were
benefiting from.

'We have 40 years experience running enabling programs for students seeking
alternative pathways to higher education,' Professor McMillen said.

'Our reputation as a global leader in that space is something that we are
extremely proud of.'

The next round of offers for first semester study will occur Tuesday, February
2.

Applicants have until midnight on Wednesday, January 27 to change preferences to
be included in that round of offers.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Newcastle Newspapers Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              561 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                Al-Ahram Weekly

                                 March 7, 2014

Leadership lessons

LENGTH: 1298  words


Egypt has a new cabinet, but the tasks at hand will be difficult to achieve
until there is a change in the understanding of leadership in general in
society, writes Abdel-Moneim Said

It was by pure coincidence that, just as the cabinet shuffle in Egypt was taking
place, I came across a recent New York Times commentary by Thomas Friedman on
leadership in the world renowned Google company. Of course, there is a vast
difference between the US and Egypt and a vaster one between a company's
leadership and that of a state. There are innumerable other differences, as
well, some concrete and tangible, others moral and even symbolic. Still, there
is something to be learned, especially given that it appears that, not just in
Egypt but also in most other Arab countries, there is a crisis in leadership.

To be clear, I am not speaking here about the leadership of the state or the
strategic elites in it. Rather, I refer to the leaderships of companies and
projects, governorates and municipalities, and perhaps too to "non-strategic"
ministries. A prominent reformer in the former National Democratic Party (NDP)
once said that Egypt would need 5,000 leaders of an international calibre in
order to enter the ranks of advanced nations. When he said this, the country's
population stood at 80 million and suddenly it seemed as though the question of
choosing leaders was an insurmountable dilemma.

One day, General Omar Suleiman, who had served as head of the General
Intelligence Services, summed up the problem for me as follows: choosing leaders
is like choosing watermelons in the market; you never know whether the flesh
inside is going to be red and sweet or white and tasteless.

I made no comment that day on that sensitive subject. At the time, the common
impression was that the prevailing criteria in the selection process was
"trustworthiness", which is to say potential loyalty. As for expertise, those
thus qualified would have to be sorted through a lengthy sieving and sifting
process that would ensure that those who could be trusted rose to the top. In
fact, the process was not quite so simple. Seniority was a major factor.
Hierarchical "paralysis" played no less an important role. Sometimes it helped
to be from the same village. However, in certain areas being from the same
profession or career track was what counted. Foreign ministers were generally
selected from the diplomatic corps, ministers of irrigation tended to be
irrigation engineers, justice ministers hailed from the judiciary, and so on.
With regard to such fields of expertise the maxim "The people of Mecca know its
trails better than others" was applied. But that was not always the case. On
some occasions, there was a preference for appointing top university graduates
in positions near key posts with the idea that these candidates would eventually
acquire the expertise to assume the post.

In Friedman's article he noted that the proportion of people without any college
education at Google has increased over time - now as high as 14 per cent on some
teams.

This may not come as a surprise to those who know that Bill Gates, founder and
former COE of Microsoft, dropped out of university after two years and that
Apple Inc founder Steve Jobs did not last more than seven months in his college.
By no means is this a call to ignore education or even college degrees and the
results of university learning. However, leadership requires considerably more
than scholastic prowess. This is because the task of a leader is not so much to
manage and sustain an organisation as to lead it to new and previously
unattainable horizons, whether in terms of wealth, fame, influence, status or
power.

Leadership means being totally convinced that there has to be change. In order
to bring this about, the leader has to have the force of mind and character that
enables him to steer others towards the realisation of a specific aim or aims.
At the same time, he must be modest enough to listen to others, especially those
with differing views and opinions (while those others should have the courage to
state their views and opinions forthrightly and to stick by them). Leadership
entails a blend of qualities, such as imagination, persistence, strength of
character, humility and courage. These are not always inculcated by the formal
educational system.

In all events, it is clear that we have a big problem. On the one hand, we do
not teach our children the idea of leadership, unless the children in question
happen to belong to the type of family or circles through which power and status
passes hereditarily, in which case they are not so much taught how to lead as
how to exercise power.

On the other hand, we tend to encourage and promote the ways that we were handed
down to us or that we had grown used to as a general rule in those days of
stability and protracted reform. But in this post-Arab revolutionary era, that
could lead to disaster, especially in a country as complex and complicated as
Egypt.

You have only to observe the recent cabinet reshuffle (I hope that it is
complete by the time this goes to print) to appreciate a number of important
matters. One of these is that surprise is of the essence when it comes to
terminating and replacing old leaderships. Not that the replacements are
entirely new. The new Prime Minister Ibrahim Mehleb, had been a member of the
previous cabinet. When assigned the task of forming a new government he said
that he had "come to finish what [he] had begun". He added that he intended to
form a government of "fighters". This quality was probably not as common as it
should have been in the previous cabinet, so that was heartening. The fighting
spirit is an important leadership trait and it is particularly needed in order
to handle the plethora of problems in a country such as Egypt. Mehleb's own
record testifies to his skills, capacities and efficacy. However, there followed
two significant developments.

One was that he brought with him into the new government the majority of the
cabinet that had just resigned. The other was that his first reform, which
entailed merging some ministries, ended up lost in the fog and smoke of the
employees in the ministries to be merged who quickly added another strike to the
other strikes that are currently in progress.

This is a curious age of revolution. It wants revolution but it is resistant to
change. An example of this occurred during the process of selecting the cabinet
members. For the first time in the history of Egypt it emerged that ministers
had to be approved by the folks in their areas of expertise who, as in the
nature of such folks, want the minister to be selected from their own cadres.
So, squabbling erupted over who would be best qualified for this or that
elevated post. In the course of that debate, there was nothing to be heard about
goals that should be reached, horizons to set sail for, or even performance
records in a ministry, government organisation or company. Rather, in keeping
with that limitless capacity to deviate from the subject at hand, there was a
lot of other talk in which two familiar and ready-to-hand accusations prevailed.
The first was the charge of affiliation with the old regime (there are two "old
regimes" in Egypt now: that of Mubarak and that of Morsi). The second charge is
affiliation with the clique of business magnates (as opposed to the only class
that knows where the interests of the nation lays, namely the government
bureaucracy).

I have no doubt that Ibrahim Mehleb will exert enormous efforts in fighting to
realise noble aims. But the tools and leaderships needed to carry out the tasks
will be lacking. This will not be the fault of the ministerial composition. It
will be because we have yet to learn the meaning and function of leadership.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 914


                    Copyright 2014 Al-Ahram Publishing House
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              562 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Long Island Business News (New York)

                            June 18, 2014 Wednesday

How to choose a college

BYLINE: Bernadette Starzee

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 605  words


Whether you're looking to advance in your current career, switch to a new one or
establish a continuing education program for your workplace, you will likely
find multiple suitable options at Long Island's institutions of higher learning.

Local colleges and universities offer a wide range of degree and non-degree
programs, which are detailed on their websites. Many programs are designed to
fit into a working adult's schedule, with courses and even entire degree
programs offered in the evening and/or on weekends.

And, as technology has continued to advance, colleges are increasingly devoting
resources to online and/or blended learning. The latter features a mix of online
and in-person instruction, marrying convenience with the many benefits of
in-person instruction, including the ability to interact and network with
professors and classmates.

If you plan to attend classes in person after work, be sure to factor how long
the drive will take in rush-hour traffic, and consider whether you will be able
to leave work on time on a regular basis to attend class. If a college or
university has several locations, be sure to inquire in advance where the
courses you need will be offered; if you are counting on completing the entire
program at a campus near your home or office, make sure this will be possible.

For workplace education programs, institutions of higher learning may be able to
tailor courses specifically to meet your company's needs. Many will offer
courses on the premises of employers that meet minimum requirements with regard
to number of students.

Besides convenience, your choice of program will be based on many factors, not
the least of which is cost. Long Island features a mix of public and private
colleges, and tuition rates vary widely. Determine upfront the cost per credit
and/or for full-time tuition, as well as applicable fees, taking into
consideration that costs will likely rise each year.

The financial aid departments at colleges and universities can advise you about
how to apply for tuition assistance, including grants, scholarships and
low-interest-rate loans.

If you are looking to complete a college degree for which you have existing
credits, you can save considerable time and money by choosing a program that is
generous about accepting past credits and/or one that accepts work experience in
lieu of some credits. For the colleges that interest you, sit down with an
adviser, who can examine your transcripts and tell you which courses you need to
complete the program.

It's also important to meet with an adviser before choosing a graduate program.
Different programs may have considerable differences with regard to
undergraduate course prerequisites.

As education can be time-consuming and expensive, it's important to take a
practical approach to your decision. Think about what you hope to get out of the
educational program, and whether this program will help you achieve your
objective.

If, for instance, you are looking to switch careers, consider your chances of
employment in the new field once you complete the program. Does the institution
offer job placement services? Is it fully accredited and respected in the
industry? Find out the graduation or completion rate and what percentage of
students get jobs in their field afterward.

For continuing education programs, research the instructors and what their
credentials are. If possible, speak to former students to find out if they found
the instructor's classes interesting and informative.

http://www.libn.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from this
resource.

© 2014 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              563 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 12, 2013 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Choosing a College

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 213 words


To the Editor:

Higher education leaders are neglecting an important factor as they seek to
measure college value (''Lists That Rank Colleges' Value Are on the Rise,''
front page, Oct. 28).

Better school performance data is insufficient for helping prospective students
choose a college wisely. Many students do not immediately understand how this
data relates to their own chances for success in college and in the work force.

Our organization, Public Agenda, recently conducted research with adults who do
not have a college degree and are considering returning to school -- an
important and growing group. While these adults seek a high-quality education
that improves their job prospects, only 45 percent say it is essential to know
what jobs and salaries a school's alumni receive. Just 47 percent say knowing a
college's graduation rate is essential information.

If higher education leaders truly want to help prospective students choose a
college that maximizes their academic and financial prospects, they must engage
students and provide the support these students need to interpret school quality
data and connect it to their own lives.

CAROLIN HAGELSKAMP WILL FRIEDMAN New York, Oct. 29, 2013

The writers are, respectively, director of research and president for Public
Agenda.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/12/opinion/choosing-a-college.html

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              564 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            April 12, 2012 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

ONLINE EDUCATION OFFERS FLEXIBLE FIT;
Western Governors University Washington offers nationally and locally;
accredited degree programs for a fraction of the price of most other schools

BYLINE: Jody Lawrence-Turner jodyl@spokesman.com, (509) 459-5593

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 635 words


Flexibility, affordability and credibility were the key reasons two Spokane-area
residents gave for choosing to enroll in Western Governors University
Washington.

But reputation was also a factor. "I spoke to several students before I chose to
go there," said Spokane Valley resident Brent Gregory, a recent graduate. "I did
a lot of Web research and found all positive feedback." WGU, which is accredited
nationally and locally, was endorsed by the Legislature a year ago to expand
post-secondary options for the state's students. The nonprofit college receives
no state funding and offers 50 bachelor's and master's online degree programs in
business, information technology, education and health care. It's the only
online university endorsed by Washington.

While tuition rates at the state's public universities have jumped 50 percent or
more during the past five years and now near $20,000 annually, WGU Washington
costs about $6,000 a year.

The university's first commencement is April 21 in Seattle, but there already
are dozens of Washington graduates, and statewide enrollment is about 2,400.

"It was certainly one of the most cost-effective ways to get an MBA," said
Gregory, who landed a job as IT director at Potlatch Corp. shortly after earning
his degree. "Another factor in choosing WGU was its accreditation; with some
online programs you don't know. I would not have done it if it was not
accredited."

Gregory's employer wasn't deterred by his online degree, he said.

Western Governors University was founded in 1997 by 19 governors, including
Washington Gov. Mike Lowry, to address the need for a better-educated workforce
by making it easier for working adults to earn degrees, college officials said.
According to a recent study, within the next five years more than 67 percent of
all jobs in Washington will require a post-secondary degree.

WGU is available in all 50 states, but it has only three state affiliations -
Indiana, Texas and Washington. State affiliation has helped WGU "reinforce its
presence in the state," Jean Floten, WGU Washington's chancellor, wrote in an
email.

Cheney resident Bobbi Lagerquist researched several online programs before
choosing WGU. Her husband is in the military, so she knew she might have to move
while working on her degree, which the university accommodates.

"That alone was a good reason," said Lagerquist, who lived in Wyoming when she
started WGU's program. But also, "The cost was relatively inexpensive compared
to other schools."

A four-year degree from WGU costs about $23,120, compared with $50,000 or more
at other online universities such as University of Phoenix, Walden or Kaplan,
all of which are for-profit, according to the National Center for Education
Statistics.

Additionally, "I liked that the school was locally and nationally accredited,"
Lagerquist said. "I felt ... I was walking away with a degree that was as good
as the brick-and-mortar schools."

In order to advance in WGU, students must demonstrate their knowledge in the
degree program through writing papers, completing assignments and passing exams.
Students are assigned mentors for the classes who guide them through the course.
Tests are proctored via webcam.

"It was self-paced," Gregory said. "They would have video lectures,
computer-based curricula, one-on-one time, or you could meet with a student
group online."

"The classes really, truly challenged my brain," Lagerquist said. "You had to be
an independent thinker. You have your computer and yourself. My mentor would
call once a week. You had a mentor for each class, and you could just call or
shoot an email over with questions."

The 42-year-old earned a Bachelor of Science in business management and was
hired last month by the state's Department of Health and Human Services as a
financial specialist.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                              565 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            June 19, 2013 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Munson chooses college football over Cardinals Defensive player of the year opts
to play for San Diego State.

BYLINE: By Nate Latsch STLhighschoolsports.com

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 407 words


Calvin Munson has made his decision.

The recent Francis Howell graduate said Tuesday he will head to San Diego State
next month, choosing football over signing with the Cardinals to play minor
league baseball.

"I told them football is what I want to do," Munson said.

A linebacker, Munson was the Post-Dispatch All-Metro defensive player of the
year after Howell went 12-2 and finished as the runner-up in Class 6. He signed
with San Diego State in February, choosing the Aztecs over offers from Ohio and
Toledo.

The 6-foot-3, 230-pounder also was the All-Metro baseball player of the year
after he led Howell to a 33-5 record and the Class 5 state championship as a
pitcher and first baseman.

A week after the Vikings won the state title, Munson was selected by the
Cardinals in the 31st round (No. 935 overall) of the draft. A pitching prospect,
he can hit the low to mid-90s with his fastball.

"They were both just great opportunities," he said. "I didn't know which one was
for me."

On Tuesday, Munson told Cardinals officials he wanted to play football.

"It was pretty tough," he said. "It was very brain-teasing. There were so many
pros and cons to each decision. I don't know. I was set for football and then
baseball came along. During the baseball year I was all football also, planning
on going. Then it was like, why would God open this door if he didn't want me to
consider it and really think about it? A lot of people were surprised I was even
considering (playing baseball) but I really did consider it. In the end football
is my true passion, so I chose that."

Munson will report to San Diego State on July 8.

The Aztecs also have had a strong baseball program, coached by Padres Hall of
Fame outfielder Tony Gwynn, and Munson left the door open that he may play
baseball again.

"You never know. I might," he said. "I might give it a try. I'm not sure yet."

Munson was selected the player of the year this spring after he went 9-0 with
three saves and a 0.64 earned-run average with 74 strikeouts and 18 walks in 65
2/3 innings. He batted .434 (49 hits in 113 at bats) with 10 doubles, two
triples, nine home runs, 46 RBIs, 38 runs, a .496 on-base percentage and .796
slugging percentage.

Munson was credited with a team-high 193 tackles to go along with nine sacks and
three interceptions last fall for the Vikings. His brother, Case, plays baseball
for Missouri. His father, Kurt, was a defensive lineman at Oregon State in the
late 1980s.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Calvin Munson of Francis Howell hits a three-run home run against St.
Louis U. High on Monday, Apr. 21, 2013 at C & H Park in St. Charles, MO. On
Tuesday, the All-Metro player of the year in baseball and football chose
football at San Diego State over the St. Louis Cardinals. (Andrew Jansen,
STLhighschoolsports.com)  Calvin Munson of Francis Howell High School.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              566 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                              May 23, 2008 Friday

School forges links with law firm

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 245 words


Beverley: Longcroft School and Performing Arts College has forged links with a
Hull law firm.

Andrew Jackson Solicitors will take the two best performing year 13 students on
the school's advanced law course each year for a one-week work placement.

Longcroft has offered sixth-form students the chance to study advanced law for
the past 10 years and the subject is growing in popularity.

Some 85 students are currently taking the course, with at least 17 choosing to
read law or associated subjects at university next year.

Law teacher Dave Hansom said: "An increasing interest in choosing law as a
career has made it necessary to offer our students the opportunity to gain
relevant work experience.

"We make yearly visits to Beverley Magistrates' Court and have already
established links with chambers in both Hull and Leeds.

"We are pleased to have entered this new arrangement with Andrew Jackson
Solicitors as it will give students a valuable insight into the professional
world of law, outside of a learning environment."

Lucy Renwick and Jess Moiser will be the first students to experience the new
placement.

They will have the chance to work in a different department of the  firm each
day.

Lucy said: "Although I enjoy the academic rigour of law, I feel the subject has
a very obvious vocational aspect that I want to be part of."

Jess said:  "Having studied and had work experience in criminal law, I wanted to
review some of the other areas of law I  know little about."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 88


                         Copyright 2008 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved


                              567 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             July 15, 2014 Tuesday

Loris Honored by Academic Organizations

LENGTH: 609  words

DATELINE: Fairfield


Sacred Heart University has issued the following news release:

Sacred Heart University English Professor Michelle Loris of Fairfield has
recently been honored by several academic organizations. The awards will
positively influence SHU's new core curriculum that will be introduced in the
fall of 2015. Loris is the current Connecticut Professor of the Year and is
acting dean of SHU's College of Arts & Sciences.

The Association for Core Texts and Courses (ACTC) accepted Loris' application
for participation in the ACTC Columbia-Yale Core Text Summer Seminar on
"Tradition and Innovation." Just 15 international teams from such institutions
as American University of Iraq-Sulemani, Xiamen University, Mercer University,
Boston University and Universidad de Navarra were chosen to participate.  Loris
chose English Professor Joe Nagy and Art Professor Nathan Lewis, both members of
the Core Curriculum Committee, to participate. This two-week seminar was
sponsored by the Teagle Foundation, the Bradley Foundation and ACTC and took
place at Columbia and Yale. Its goal was to teach participants about the value
and importance of teaching great books.

"An important component we experienced at the "Tradition and Innovation" seminar
was the fluidity and connection between the texts. We want the students and
faculty to understand the Catholic intellectual tradition (CIT) as a continuum
that reaches to the present, that we are all connected to this tradition and
have a role to play in its future," Lewis said. "Choosing texts that relate and
build off of each other is a way to encourage this understanding of a continuum
and a foundation. Our committee is currently actively involved in this process
of choosing texts as well as looking for ways of supporting the program and
dialogue through colloquia, discussion groups, events and exhibitions. The
directors of the seminar were very positive about the Great Books program we are
building and thought the program would bring prestige to the university. It was
an honor for us to be a part of the seminar and to represent SHU there."

Loris has also been invited by the Association of Catholic Colleges and
Universities (ACCU) to be part of a group of eight drafting a booklet on the
core qualities of the CIT. Since no such publication currently exists, the ACCU
seeks to facilitate the creation of a booklet that would provide an introduction
to the core qualities of the CIT for faculty, in print and electronic form, by
2015. The group has already begun to work on the project via phone and will do
the bulk of the work during a retreat in Washington, D.C., over the weekend of
July 25-27. Afterwards, the team will continue to meet by conference call with a
goal of presenting a solid first draft by early next spring.

The ACCU is also funding a project submitted by Loris and English Professor
Marie Hulme entitled "Assessment Methodology for Core Curriculum Courses on the
Catholic Intellectual Tradition." The grant allows the two professors to develop
a methodology for assessing whether the CIT has been successfully incorporated
into the new core curriculum, Loris said.

The signature academic piece of the new core curriculum will be two seminars
entitled "The Human Journey Seminars: Great Books in the Catholic Intellectual
Tradition."

"The three grants are important because they will help enhance the committee's
ability to launch our signature academic piece," Loris noted. "Seminars I and II
will be the foundation of the new core curriculum, and all students will take
both courses beginning in their sophomore or junior years."

For more information please visit: http://www.sacredheart.edu

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              568 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Herald (South Africa)

                              May 31, 2010 Monday

Smoothing way to future

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 425 words


PLANNING for tertiary education should begin once you enter high school. As you
progress through your school years, you can pay attention to following helpful
factors.
 Choosing a career is one of the most important decisions you will ever make.
Most people spend half or more of their waking hours, five days a week at their
jobs. While selecting a career can be a difficult process, the following tips
can make this process easier for you.


  Extensive reading about potential careers is vital. Learn all about career
descriptions, career outlooks, employment statistics, educational requirements,
and potential earnings.
 . Interviewing people in the field is an excellent way to learn about the
various aspects of a career. Doing this may also provide good networking
opportunities. You can find interview candidates by asking friends, teachers,
members of an alumni association or relevant professional associations and
societies and visit appropriate social and professional networking sites online.

 Internships provide excellent opportunities for acquiring a realistic, clear
picture about the daily duties and job satisfaction of a particular occupation.

  Find a mentor. Many colleges and employers have a formal mentoring programme
and there are mentoring organisations.
  Look for lists of "hot jobs" on the internet and in magazines. Do this
frequently since these lists keep changing. A "hot job" today may not be "hot"
next year. When evaluating these lists keep in mind your interests, skills, and
job satisfaction.
  Many community colleges have career centres that provide free individual and
group career counseling. Career counselors can provide assistance with the
self-evaluation process, choosing a career, and the job search process.
  Take into consideration the number of job opportunities in your area for each
career you are considering. This is vital if you intend to stay in your current
location.
 The skills required for a career are an essential factor for an individual's
potential for success in that career. Write a list of the skills needed for a
particular field. Place a check next to each skill you possess. The more checks
you make, the more likely this field is right for you.
 Your aptitudes should be a vital factor in your career selection process. A
gratifying career is often built upon a match with what you are naturally good
at. Natural strengths allow an individual to work with ease and to acquire
expertise faster.
  Explore the advancement opportunities of each potential occupation.
 www.howtostudy.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Herald


                    Copyright 2010 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              569 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Journal Record (Oklahoma City, OK)

                              June 20, 2008 Friday

OSU branch in Okmulgee adds 'Institute of Technology' to name

BYLINE: Heather Caliendo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 410  words


Oklahoma State University Technical Branch-Okmulgee has changed its name to OSU
Institute of Technology, hoping to attract more students to technical
disciplines.

A couple of years ago, the university launched a marketing study of what
prospective students want in a university. Students showed interest in hands-on
learning, paid internships and links to industries.

The research firm found the words "Institute of Technology" were tied to
technician training that could lead to high-paying careers, said Rex Daugherty,
assistant vice president of marketing.

"I think this will help clarify what we have to offer students who are making
career choices - that choosing a technical career is a good choice to make,"
Daugherty said. "It's raising the awareness of the status of the university -
that we are not a trade school. "

The university has no new programs to coincide with the name change. Industries
across Oklahoma and the region are having a difficult time finding skilled
technicians, university officials said. With the baby boomers retiring,
Daugherty said the need is even more critical.

"The industry is eager to find people to fill the slots," he said. "There are
just not enough young people choosing a career in technology, and yet these
careers make good salaries and offer long-term employment. "

Daugherty said the school doesn't know what the impact of the name change will
be; it's more about targeting particular groups. The college is not only
reaching out to high school students, but also incumbent and returning workers -
particularly those who have lost jobs because technology has advanced past their
skills.

Many of the current students come from rural areas. A few have come from
different parts of the country to pursue a watchmaking or automotive degree.
Daugherty said the name change is not meant to establish the college as
competition for other universities; it's meant to showcase the university's
specialization in producing skilled technicians.

Once the name was chosen, Okmulgee-area legislators introduced a bill to confirm
the change. Gov. Brad Henry signed the name-change law on May 12.

Daugherty said the name change not only benefits the university, but also
Okmulgee.

"It's revisiting awareness the status of the university is not a trade school
but an institute of technology," said Daugherty. "By evaluating the perception
of the status of the university - that has to reflect positively on the Okmulgee
community, as well. "

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              570 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                            November 4, 2003 Tuesday

LETTERS TO THE VOICE

SECTION: VOICE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 269 words


Don't stress over college decision

Dear Voice editor: This letter is in response to the Voice article for high
school students looking to choose the right college ... you have no idea how
easy you have it right now!

I graduated from college in May, and believe me, choosing which college to go to
is the smallest step of the process. You're entering a world with more
responsibility than you can know. Between getting up for 8 a.m. classes,
studying for exams, writing 10-page papers every week and reading about a
million pages a night, you'll need to find a way to do all this while everyone
around you is partying like crazy.

I can't even say how many people I knew who didn't make it past their freshman
year because of the freedom you encounter at school. Don't get me wrong; I had
more than my share of fun at the bars. I also had parents who threatened to
bring me home if I didn't get good grades.

And that's only while you're in school. After graduating in May, it took me
until September to find a job in my field of study. Most of the people I
graduated with still don't have jobs.

So don't stress now - at least you know where you'll be for at least the next
four years. And don't worry about choosing a major right away; you can take all
of your general education classes first and choose later. It costs a whole lot
more money if you end up changing your major and have to start all over again.

Choosing where you want to go is only the beginning. Knowing what to do when you
get there is a whole other story.

- Carrie Ladage

Eastern Illinois University alumna

Virden

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTERS

                   Copyright 2003 The State Journal-Register


                              571 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            November 26, 2007 Monday

PCC president gets some auto advice

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 526 words


PASADENA - No one expects college presidents to be "automotive experts,"
automotive expert Roy Nakano says.

So Nakano, executive editor of the San Gabriel-based on-line magazine LACar.com,
has done their homework for them.

"The Public Figure's Guide to Buying Cars With Public Funds," he said, was
inspired by Pasadena City College President Paulette Perfumo's much-criticized
choice of a luxury Cadillac DeVille Touring Sedan as her personal college-funded
transportation.

College presidents, as Nakano writes in his "Back Seat Driving" column, are
"often put in the precarious position of having to lead by example."

It's too late to influence Perfumo, he said Monday, but she could perhaps have
used his guide in choosing something other than a top-of-the-line, $54,244.46
Cadillac that gets about 14 miles to the gallon in city driving.

"I realize what she did was entirely legal and literally above the board,"
Nakano said, referring to the PCC board of trustee's approval of the purchase.

"But the head of an educational institution like PCC has to be careful about
perceptions."

Perfumo did not respond to requests for comment Monday.

But on Nov. 12, she said she'd owned the same model Cadillac at her last job as
president of Solano Community College District and needs a large car to
accommodate her 5-foot, 8-inch height and a "bad leg."

As part of her employment package, Perfumo has use of a car of her choice - plus
taxes, license, gasoline card and maintenance - on top of her $183,000 salary.

Nakano said he compiled his list, available at www.lacar.com, as "a good way to
showcase what I thought were excellent vehicles if you are going to use public
funds."

All his choices come in at "well under $30,000" and he also considered high
resale value, environmental issues, gas mileage and "vehicles that send a
message in terms of conserving the environment and gas consumption."

Beth Wells Miller, the only trustee who voted against approving the Cadillac
purchase, said the guide was "a good concept" but shouldn't be necessary.

"I would expect people to show good judgement and use some common sense" in
choosing a suitable subsidized car, she said.

"You would think in selecting a car you would take into account how it was
perceived by the public, and take into consideration fuel economy and
(environmental) factors." she said. "We're all public servants and it's
important to remember that and be prudent in expenditures."

On Nakano's list are: Chevrolet Malibu Hybrid, Ford Escape Hybrid, Honda FCX
Clarity, available for lease only summer 2008, Mercury Mariner Hybrid and Toyota
Prius.

Honorable mentions are: Honda Civic Hybrid, Mazda Tribute Hybrid, Nissan Altima
Hybrid, Saturn Aura Green Line, Saturn VUE Green Line, Toyota Camry Hybrid, and
Volkswagen Jetta TDI, available in 2008.

"High fuel economy, eco-friendliness and cost are attributes that should be
taken into consideration," Nakano said. "If you happen to be a lawmaker, you'll
need to add manufacturing origin and American branding to the list. In the end,
when it comes to cars driven by public figures, perception is everything."

janette.williams@sgvn.com

(626) 578-6300, Ext. 4482

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              572 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily Nation (Kenya)

                              April 1, 2013 Monday

What to look for when choosing a university

BYLINE: PETER NGURE -1

LENGTH: 967 words


The varying standards in the quality of education offered in universities and
university colleges make it necessary for prospective students to be careful
when choosing where to study.

It requires the assessment of particular features that help to determine the
quality of a university.

The starting point is to check the registration status of the university. You do
so to avoid the risks associated with enrolling in an institution that is not
recognised by the Commission for University Education (CUE), formerly the
Commission for Higher Education.

On its website, CUE has a list of all the universities and university colleges
it recognises.Certificates from universities that are not recognised by CUE
won't be accepted for further education or job opportunities.

For professional courses, it is necessary to confirm if the university's
curriculum is approved by the relevant regulatory body.

With the intensifying competition among universities for students, some have
lowered their standards in order to boost enrolment and to cut down on running
costs. In such universities, quantity takes precedence over quality.

A good university should have qualified staff and faculty. The faculty are the
heart and soul of a university.

Ideally, a university lecturer should be a PhD holder. However, in Kenya, the
minimum qualification is a Master's degree in a relevant area. The holder of the
Master's degree should preferably have contributed to the generation of
knowledge by publishing in refereed journals or writing a book or a chapter in a
book.

PhD holders offer valuable academic leadership in  undergraduate programmes,
while associate and full professors run the show in postgraduate studies. A good
university also ensures that the teaching staff includes individuals with
practical experience in the industry.

Programmes that run with skeleton staff are the ones that end up producing the
"half-baked" graduates that have become a topic of discussions of late.

CUE recommends a low lecturer to student ratio of 1:50 for theoretical courses
and 1:20 for practical lessons. The ratio of full-time lecturers to part-time
ones should be 2:1.

This ensures that lecturers get to know their students well enough to mentor
them appropriately. Ideally, class sizes should not go beyond 60 for
undergraduate students and 30 for postgraduates. This should ensure that
students have adequate space in classrooms and hostels.

In addition, the lecturer's commitment to scholarship and community service is
critical.

A reputable university should have adequate facilities for teaching and
learning. These include well-stocked and spacious libraries, computer and
science laboratories, classrooms, offices, and recreation facilities.

CUE recommends that there be a minimum of 60 core titles for a programme or five
core titles per course. A minimum of five core journals in the area of
specialisation is also required for each programme.

In addition, e-resources such as e-books and e-journals, and a variety of
relevant multimedia resources, should be available to students and lecturers.
Students should be able to access e-resources off campus.

High-speed Internet connectivity has become a valuable resource for institutions
of higher learning. The minimum speed should be 60mbps, while wireless
connectivity should cover the university and its environs.

Good universities are known for their culture. Think of Harvard, Oxford, and
Princeton universities. Their reputation and cultures have developed over time
and distinguish their graduates. Such universities have simple mission
statements that students and staff can recall and live up to.

Good universities provide a conducive teaching and learning experience that is
enhanced through academic freedom, which in turn guarantees freedom of
expression and sharing of experiences.

Good universities focus on holistic education that develops all faculties,
including the mental, physical, spiritual, and psychological.

Holistic education necessitates an all-round curriculum that educates an
individual on such aspects as communication, culture, economics, environment,
and health. The all-round graduate adjusts better to societal needs compared to
a specialist with limited knowledge on real-life issues.

Involving students in work on campus and internship is necessary to broaden the
scope of their experiences. To ensure this, a good university maintains a wide
variety of linkages with the industry, including research institutes and other
universities.

Research outputs distinguish good from nominal universities. A good research
profile is a product of hard work and competitiveness. Attracting research
grants require a track record of publishing in refereed journals and creativity.

Universities that attract good researchers end up producing the next generation
of champions because the researchers bring their knowledge to the classroom and
involve students in practical application of knowledge and skills. Imagine being
taught literature by Prof Ngugi wa Thiong'o or genetics by Prof Francis Collins,
who headed the human genome project.

A good university is a product of great leadership. Leaders in such universities
must be individuals of high moral standards. They must additionally have a track
record of excellence in academics and leadership. Such institutions encourage
transformative leadership.

Avoid universities in which the administration is a one-man show. Good
universities are characterised by a smooth transition in leadership. No leader
should stay at the helm of the unuiversity for more than 10 years.

Ultimately, you will know a tree by its fruits. The alumni of a university are a
true picture of its quality. (See related story on Page 3)

The writer is a senior lecturer and the dean, School of Science, Engineering and
Health, Daystar University

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1144


                       Copyright 2013 Nation Media Group
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              573 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 11, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Your College Major, and the Path Beyond

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 192 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Choosing a College Major: For Love or for the Money? (Job Market, Dec. 5):

The mistake that many students make when choosing a major is that they think of
it as a destination. Entering M.I.T., I chose neuroscience because I thought
that I would go to medical school. Three years later, I am applying to public
policy school and jobs in the nonprofit sector.

I thought that I would have been better off majoring in political science,
economics or urban planning, given my interest in policy. But now I realize that
my neuroscience major was the first step in a circuitous path to public policy.

As a freshman, I had no clue what public policy was; I would have laughed had
someone suggested it to me. Only after spending time in a psychiatric emergency
room -- a job that I obtained because of my neuroscience and pre-med background
-- did I see that public policy was the way to go.

My advice to freshmen: Choose a major based on a healthy balance of what
interests you and what your life goals are. But don't be afraid to deviate from
your chosen path. You might be surprised at what you find.

Christine R. Fry
Boston, Dec. 6, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              574 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Citizen

                           September 4, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Learning while I work is perfect';
By Lauren Lanfear, 16, from Coleford, a Business Administration Apprentice at
gfirst ; THE BIG ISSUE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 326 words


WHEN I left school I didn't know what to do.

I had been at Monmouth Comprehensive School for five years and choosing A-levels
and going on to university all seemed a bit daunting.

I didn't really know what subjects to take and what career would suit me.

A few months ago I was browsing over the Gloucestershire College website looking
at all of the options available to me, when I came across apprenticeships. I
hadn't really heard much about them before that but after reading about what
apprenticeships can offer you I became more certain on what I was going to do
next.

I realised that choosing an apprenticeship gives you the opportunity to
experience what it is really like to work full time whilst gaining a
qualification. It also gives you the opportunity to learn and earn whilst
working, rather than ending up with thousands of pounds worth of debt by going
to university. I decided that an apprenticeship was definitely what I wanted to
do and I soon found a vacancy for a Business Administration Apprentice at
economic development company gfirst on the college website. The role allowed me
to learn all my administration skills as well as some marketing and tourism
experience, which I felt would suit me better than others I had seen.

I have only been at gfirst for a short time and already I've learnt key skills
such as responding to customer enquiries on the telephone and on e-mails,
understanding and inserting information onto databases, booking out meeting
rooms, and raising invoices. With the apprenticeship I am doing I don't have to
take time off to go to college, everything is done in-house and an assessor from
Gloucestershire College visits me regularly, which really suits me.

Doing an apprenticeship definitely makes you feel more independent and it also
gives you the opportunity to learn in a working environment whilst picking up
key skills, which you can carry forward with you, without having the stress of
debt and examinations.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ PICKING UP NEW SKILLS: Lauren Lanfear, 16, an apprentice at gfirst.
Also pictured below.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CIT


                           Copyright 2012 The Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved


                              575 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                           December 14, 2006 Thursday

High housing costs dictate how students pick courses

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 211 words


Soaring rents are forcing Westcountry students to live at home, according to a
survey.

Record numbers of students are choosing courses taught at a university close to
home, as  accommodation costs have rocketed in the past three years.

The National Union of Students (NUS) commissioned the survey which showed rents
have increased three times faster than student loans. The average weekly rent
went up by 23 per cent in the past three years to  £81.80.

The report says: "Some poorer students are choosing their university and their
course according to whether they will be able to commute from home, rather than
the course itself."

The report showed more than one in three working class undergraduates lived at
home compared with one in five upper/middle-class students.

Rents have risen as more universities contract private companies to run their
halls of residence. And more than half of new accommodation - 55 per cent -
planned for next year, will be built by private benefactors.

A spokesman for the University of Exeter said it spent £3.5 million a year
providing bursaries for students from poorer backgrounds. In addition, the South
West Access to Exeter Bursary offers financial support to applicants from
partner schools and colleges in Devon, Cornwall and Somerset.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              576 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Brisbane News (Australia)

                           October 13, 2010 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

Clayfield College

SECTION: BRISBANE NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 145 words


Choosing the right school for your child's education is one of the most
important decisions a parent can make, and one that will have ramifications for
the child's future. Clayfield College has a proud tradition and record for
academic excellence, wide-ranging extra-curricular programs, exceptional
pastoral care and leadership programs, and outstanding community service
programs. Clayfield College caters for girls from Pre-Prep to Year 12 and boys
from Pre-Prep to Year 5. According to the college's principal, Brian Savins, "It
is important for the college to provide diverse educational pathways so that our
students can achieve their future goals." With such a range of opportunities
available to the students to be successful, it is little wonder parents are
choosing Clayfield College for their children.

23 GREGORY ST, CLAYFIELD

PH: 3262 0220

WWW.CLAYFIELD.QLD.EDU.AU

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: BNM


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              577 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                    The News

                            October 13, 2015 Tuesday

Success for Portsmouth College after huge rise in student numbers

BYLINE: Ruth Scammell

LENGTH: 396  words


MORE students are choosing to study their A-levels and Btecs in the city after
Portsmouth College saw a sharp rise in admissions.

Compared with September last year, 15 per cent more students aged between 16 and
18 have joined the college - up from 1,111 to 1,274.

The college in Tangier Road, Copnor, is one of two places in the city that runs
A-level courses alongside Charter Academy, which started offering A-levels last
year.

This year saw the college achieve its best-ever results.

It was the eighth consecutive year the results have risen with 42 per cent of
students achieving A*-B grades at A-level, with an overall pass rate of 98 per
cent.

Deputy principal Simon Barrable said: Quite a lot of A-level providers have been
shrinking in size, partly because of the competition and the funding issues. But
we have managed to keep growing.

That is partly down to some of the individual stuff we have done, particularly
the schedule of the day which sees students have one lesson in the morning and
one in the afternoon.

They have got time where they don't have to be in college and they could be
working or doing some sport or enrichment activities.

We have noticed that the teaching and learning is improving. Pupils are more
engaged with what they are studying.

It forces teachers to think more about their planning and preparation.'

The number of students attending the college has almost doubled in the past 10
years. In 2005 there were 650 students.

Mr Barrable said it's exciting to see that more youngsters have decided to
either stay in the city, or travel further distances for their studies.

Our significant growth has come from more students in Portsmouth choosing to
stay in Portsmouth for their post-16 education,' he said.

It's partly from us making some in-roads with the independent sector in
Portsmouth.

They are small numbers but there is a slight growth there.

We are beginning to pull some students in from further afield including Gosport
and the Isle of Wight.

We have got a good breadth of curriculum which does give students a good choice
- that's both A-level and Btec.

We're beginning to see large groups of students moving on to the top
universities.'

First Bus has started running two new services this year, one running through
Southsea, and the other from Fareham bus station up through Portchester,
Paulsgrove, Cosham and Drayton, right down to the college.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPNS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              578 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           September 14, 2015 Monday

Students get ideal majors, but only if they're lucky

BYLINE: Xinhua in Changsha

LENGTH: 343  words


The auditorium at the University of South China in Hunan province was crowded on
the evening of Sept 8, when hundreds of students gathered to decide their majors
through luck of the draw - a lottery system.

"We were forced to take these measures," said school official Lu Qinghua. "If
choosing a major is based solely on students' wants, some majors will be
overcrowded and others will have difficulty enrolling enough students. There are
some other colleges that use this method."

Not all of the department's 585 students must rely on luck, Lu said. The top 190
students in the department may choose their majors freely. Students who draw
through the lottery still have a chance to switch with another student before
their majors are finally set.

But the lottery is making waves. Critics say it's a sign of lazy governance.

"The college lacks a sense of responsibility. Students should enjoy the right to
choose the majors they prefer, and the college should not sacrifice students'
chances of personal development for the sake of maintaining a balance among
majors," said an Internet user, "Jingshuishenliu", on the news portal sohu.com.

Si Hanhan, a writer at gmw.cn, another news portal, said that instead of
deciding majors in such an "irresponsible" way, universities should readjust the
majors offered and eliminate those that don't meet the needs of the job market,
as well as offer more guidance to students in choosing their majors.

Si also said that the school's policy of allowing the top 190 students to choose
their own majors is "discrimination."

An official surnamed Su, who works in the publicity department of the
university, said the policy has been in place for years. The school had also
sought advice from instructors and students twice in the past, Su said.

"After one year of study, students whose performance is in the top 10 percent
can apply to change their major," she said.

A student who had just drawn a major told Beijing Times: "I think it is quite
fair. Students are encouraged to study hard to gain the chance to freely choose
majors.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              579 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           September 14, 2015 Monday

Students get ideal majors, but only if they're lucky

BYLINE: Xinhua in Changsha

LENGTH: 343  words


The auditorium at the University of South China in Hunan province was crowded on
the evening of Sept 8, when hundreds of students gathered to decide their majors
through luck of the draw - a lottery system.

"We were forced to take these measures," said school official Lu Qinghua. "If
choosing a major is based solely on students' wants, some majors will be
overcrowded and others will have difficulty enrolling enough students. There are
some other colleges that use this method."

Not all of the department's 585 students must rely on luck, Lu said. The top 190
students in the department may choose their majors freely. Students who draw
through the lottery still have a chance to switch with another student before
their majors are finally set.

But the lottery is making waves. Critics say it's a sign of lazy governance.

"The college lacks a sense of responsibility. Students should enjoy the right to
choose the majors they prefer, and the college should not sacrifice students'
chances of personal development for the sake of maintaining a balance among
majors," said an Internet user, "Jingshuishenliu", on the news portal sohu.com.

Si Hanhan, a writer at gmw.cn, another news portal, said that instead of
deciding majors in such an "irresponsible" way, universities should readjust the
majors offered and eliminate those that don't meet the needs of the job market,
as well as offer more guidance to students in choosing their majors.

Si also said that the school's policy of allowing the top 190 students to choose
their own majors is "discrimination."

An official surnamed Su, who works in the publicity department of the
university, said the policy has been in place for years. The school had also
sought advice from instructors and students twice in the past, Su said.

"After one year of study, students whose performance is in the top 10 percent
can apply to change their major," she said.

A student who had just drawn a major told Beijing Times: "I think it is quite
fair. Students are encouraged to study hard to gain the chance to freely choose
majors.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              580 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday

JOBS FOR THE BOYS... WHY GIRLS STILL AREN'T GOING AFTER THEM

LENGTH: 379 words


ANNA DAVIS EDUCATION CORRESPONDENT

SCHOOLS are not giving girls enough confidence and ambition to take risks when
choosing a career, a report found today.

Female students are going into jobs such as hairdressing and beauty therapy
because they do not have the drive to challenge gender stereotypes, Ofsted said.

It concluded that young women are being given weak careers advice, after Ofsted
interviewed students at primary and secondary schools and colleges across the
country. Of 200 girl pupils questioned at colleges, only seven were considering
engineering jobs and only 17 wanted a science-related career.

The report warned: "From an early age, the girls surveyed had held
conventionally stereotypical views about jobs for men and women.

"They retained those views throughout their schooling despite being taught about
equality of opportunity and knowing their rights to access any kind of future
career."

Inspectors also found that girls aged 11 to 14 did not fully understand how
their choice of course and career would influence their later pay and promotion
prospects. In the colleges visited the female pupils were more likely to choose
courses in health, social care, childcare, hairdressing and beauty therapy while
construction, motor vehicle and engineering courses were predominantly taken by
male students.

Most young women are heavily influenced by family and friends when choosing
their line of work, the inspectors say. As a result, Ofsted has urged schools to
encourage girl pupils to meet professionals working in non- stereotypical roles
and to set up more diverse work placements.

Ofsted's Chief Inspector Christine Gilbert said: "It is encouraging that most of
the girls inspectors spoke with were open to the possibility of pursuing careers
that challenge stereotypes.

"What is worrying is that they all too often follow courses and qualifications
that don't give them these opportunities in practice.

"As well as developing more opportunities to meet professionals in
non-stereotypical roles, schools need to develop opportunities for young women
to learn more about what the job entails through diverse work placements. They
should consider ways in which mentoring could be used more extensively to
support young women in overcoming barriers to achievement."

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright  2011   Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              581 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 30, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

First Exam: Choosing the Right College

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 167 words


To the Editor:

Re "College Hunt: Son, Are We There Yet?," by Hubert Herring (Rituals column,
July 25):

There is an obvious solution to Mr.

Herring's college selection stress -- he should let his son choose a college for
himself! My very independent search four years ago helped prepare me for the
self-determined nature of college itself.

Besides, the mythical college search rarely ends up producing the expected
results. Perfect schools are rarely that; admissions counselors and
financial-aid officers waylay the best plans; bottom-of-the-list schools may
turn out best in the end. I have had an incredible education at my last-choice
school and am thankful I was led to the University of Wisconsin instead of to
the tiny liberal arts school I had longed to attend.

Mr. Herring might do well to transfer both the choosing and the consequences of
that choice to his son, who would most likely be grateful for the power and
independence thus entrusted to him.

MAURA LEAHY
Madison, Wis., July 25, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Ron Barrett)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              582 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 19, 1989, Sunday, Final Edition

The Right College For You

BYLINE: Thomas Sowell

SECTION: BOOK WORLD; PAGE R14

LENGTH: 1031 words


ONE MORNING, many years ago, while on my way to work at the University of
California at Los Angeles, I saw an attractive and well-dressed young woman
lying in the shrubbery next to the building in which my office was located. She
seemed to be asleep but the presence of policemen nearby alerted me to grimmer
possibilities.

In reality, she had within the hour jumped from the roof of the building to her
death. It was painful to see such a tragic waste -- or to think of her parents,
whose hearts would soon be broken when the news reached them.

That scene came back to me many times while I was writing Choosing A College, a
book just recently published. Too many college students end up in situations
they can't handle -- academically, socially or psychologically. Too much
emphasis is put on getting into big-name colleges and universities, which may
not be the best place for the particular individual.

A shy, introverted student can get completely lost in a huge, impersonal state
university with 20,000 or 30,000 strangers. An above-average student from a good
school can be crushed by the competition in a high-pressure academic institution
where there are hundreds of other students who graduated as valedictorians from
the top public and private schools in the country. A sheltered girl from a home
with traditional values may not be able to cope with a coed dormitory situation
where her roommate's boyfriend comes over regularly to spend the night.

Colleges are ultimately people -- and people differ radically. At some colleges,
faculty members take a great interest in students and are ready to help them
with their social or psychological adjustments. On other campuses, professors
are too preoccupied with their own research, writing and consulting to have
either time for or interest in undergraduates' problems. Students, too, differ
radically. Some thrive and blossom on the same campus where others have their
spirits broken and lose all interest in education.

Given all these differences among people and institutions, it is meaningless and
dangerously misleading to talk about the "best" college, or the "Top Ten"
colleges, or other such rankings found in many college guides. What parents and
students really need to look for are colleges that represent a match, rather
than a mismatch, for a particular individual. Harvard has much prestige but it
also has had a thousand students receiving psychiatric care at one time. The
Massachusetts Institude of Technology is one of the great engingeering schools
on this planet, but three students committed suicide there in one semester last
year. Many other students have found Harvard and MIT a wonderful experience that
they would not have missed for anything.

My purpose in writing Choosing A College was to help young people focus on
making a match between themselves and a particular college. The first step can
be summed up in the ancient adage, "Know thyself" -- not only academically but
also in terms of what you want from a college environment and what you are
seeking in life.

Even in narrowly academic terms, it is so easy to be misled by big names and by
various national rankings. The best-known institutions -- Harvard, Yale,
Stanford, Berkeley and the like -- are almost invariably universities whose
professors turn out world-class research and win all sorts of awards, including
Nobel Prizes. But it is precisely this research that leaves the faculty so
little time to spend with students, or even to prepare well-organized lectures.
Student-written guides at Princeton and at Harvard often refer to classroom
lectures there as "rambling," "disorganized" or even "incoherent."

There is very little career payoff for good teaching at a research-oriented
university and the faculty know it. A Harvard professor who won a teaching award
in 1987 had to look for another job in 1988 because his contract was not
renewed. Apparently his research output was not sufficient. This is an old story
at many research-oriented institutions, where the "teacher of the year" award is
regarded as the kiss of death. First-rate teaching requires too much time for
most professors to be able to also do the first-rate research necessary to get
tenure at leading prestige universities.

Fortunately, there are colleges where teaching is the top priority. But, for
that very reason, they do not usually turn out enough newsworthy research to
become known to the general public. Knowledgeable people may sing the praises of
small liberal arts colleges like Swarthmore, Amherst or Oberlin, but even these
people may overlook some of the lesser-known, but outstanding, teaching colleges
such as Davidson, Franklin & Marshall or Whitman.

More conservative parents and students, who want to avoid coed dormitories, who
prefer colleges with strong rules against drugs or alcohol on campus and who
would like to see traditional religious values promoted by the college, will
have to look even harder to find such institutions these days. Still, there are
places like Wheaton College in Illinois, Pepperdine University in California,
Hillsdale College in Michigan and Grove City College in Pennsylvania, among
others that serve that clientele. At the other end of the spectrum, if you are
looking for colleges with an avant-garde, anything-goes attitude, then Reed
College, Brown University and Bennington College are part of a long list of such
places.

Choosing a college can be one of the most important decisions in life. It can
open up whole new worlds to a young mind and establish friendships that last a
lifetime. Or it can end in the tragedy of drug addiction, psychiatric problems
or suicide. Prestige rankings tell you nothing about these vital aspects of
college life. What is needed is specific knowledge of colleges, preferably
including campus visits and -- even more important -- knowledge of the personal
values and hopes that are leading toward college in the first place.

Thomas Sowell, the author of "Choosing a College: A Guide for Parents and
Students," is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University.
He has written extensively on education, economics and history.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, BOB ROWE FOR TWP

TYPE: FEATURE

                       Copyright 1989 The Washington Post


                              583 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                    Zee News

                            December 2, 2014 Tuesday

Students prefer to study at digital universities: Accenture survey

LENGTH: 460  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Dec. 2 -- The worldwide survey determines a strong need for
universities to use digital technology in the curriculum.
 It is no secret that students across the world spend a large amount of time on
digital platforms. Mobile phones, computers, laptops and tablets are just some
of the devices that have become indispensible for information as well as
entertainment. Accenture's recent worldwide survey emphasises that this need for
digital technology strongly manifests itself among students while choosing an
university for higher education.


 According to 85 per cent of college bound students from India, Australia,
Singapore, United States of America and the United Kingdom, who formed part of
the survey sample, digital capabilities such as integration of technology into
classrooms, virtual coursework and online classes are top determinants while
choosing a university.
 In case of India, 98 per cent of the students evaluated the digital technology
infrastructure of a University before securing admission. A digital platform
attracts more attention, is not as mundane as books and is thus easier to learn
from, says Binit Demta, first year degree college student from Bangalore. Reddy
Eswara who completed his graduation from Andhra Pradesh agrees and adds, It can
help generate interest among students and enable them to learn a subject better.

 In addition to giving priority to digital technologies, the survey results also
show that 50 per cent of Indian students obtained information about universities
from college, while the multi country average stood at 32 per cent. Nowadays,
right from kindergarten, schools are offering classroom technology as well as
online learning mediums. Thus students obviously want to choose a higher
education institute that is inclined towards technology, says Ashutosh Modi,
executive director, EntrancePrime, an online learning portal.
 The survey also underlined that cost of studying often led them to reconsider
or alter their preferred choice of university. Money is the first thing we think
of before going to study abroad. The cost of education and residence is often
too high, says Demta. Although most universities abroad have better digital
infrastructure than Indian institutions, the survey result revealed that Indians
were happier with their university experience. While 92 per cent Indian students
rated their experience as good or excellent, the score for Australia was
significantly low at 82 per cent.
 While students want technology to be available, according to Modi, they do not
always make full use of it. It may be due to bandwidth constraints or lack of
monitoring infrastructure. These technologies need to be embedded within
curriculum rather than existing as an optional aid, he says.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 Tangerine Digital Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              584 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              June 3, 2013 Monday

What's the buzz

SECTION: FROM THE READERS

LENGTH: 538 words


In my opinion, what society needs is not what you have studied but what you can
do, because what you have learned at university may not guarantee you a job.
Although I majored in engineering, I have a keen interest in English and made
great efforts with my oral English. As a result, when I did not find an ideal
job related to my major, I eventually took a job with an English-training
institute and became a teacher. So my suggestion is that do not focus solely on
your major, but also work hard at your interests and you will always get a job.

A READER, Chengdu, Sichuan province

I was a college graduate six years ago and now work in HR. I think the so-called
employment difficulty is caused by a number of factors, such as graduates' lack
of competence and the economy's structural imbalance. Graduates of genuine
capability are actually very popular among employers. In addition, many students
have unduly high expectations. They all yearn for jobs with State-owned
enterprises and well-known companies, even though many small and medium-sized
private companies cannot find qualified candidates. Therefore, for college
students, the key to job hunting is to improve themselves and find a correct
orientation.

A READER, Shanghai

I am an English major who is about to graduate this summer and my ideal job
would be an English translator. However, given the severe conditions in job
market, I am considering first finding a job related to English, for example,
teaching, rather than insisting on getting my dream job. I also realize that
what I want is a simple life, so I have decided to work in Taiyuan rather than
in Beijing and Shanghai, not only because it is less stressful, but also because
my education background is not very competitive in big cities.

VITA, Changzhi, Shanxi province

I have worked for a year but have many complicated feelings about work. Choosing
a job is choosing one's direction in life, and you pay dearly if you make a
mistake. Therefore, one needs to be very careful in job hunting and figure out
one's practical situation to avoid regretting it for the rest of your life.

A READER, Hebi, Henan province

As far as I am concerned, it is essential for fresh college graduates to map out
a clear career plan before job hunting and set specific objectives, otherwise
they may easily get lost in society. Besides, since they lack any working
experience, college graduates need to demonstrate their attitude to work and
ability to learn in front of employers. Then every job seeker should firmly
stick to their dream

A READER, Fuzhou, Fujian province

I have worked for more than a decade and have lots of job-hunting experiences.
Although every time I go job hunting there may be many difficulties to conquer,
as long as one is clear about one's abilities and objectives and finds his own
position, one can always find a decent work.

I think the current employment difficulty is more or less related to the fact
that today's youths fail to adapt to the real market. Young people need to
broaden their vision because what matters most is their working experiences.
When you spend a couple of years doing down-to-earth work and combine theory
with practice, you will find more job opportunities.

A READER, Shanghai

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved


                              585 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            China Daily - US Edition

                           September 14, 2015 Monday

Students get ideal majors, but only if they're lucky

LENGTH: 348  words


The auditorium at the University of South China in Hunan province was crowded on
the evening of Sept 8, when hundreds of students gathered to decide their majors
through luck of the draw - a lottery system.

"We were forced to take these measures," said school official Lu Qinghua. "If
choosing a major is based solely on students' wants, some majors will be
overcrowded and others will have difficulty enrolling enough students. There are
some other colleges that use this method."

Not all of the department's 585 students must rely on luck, Lu said. The top 190
students in the department may choose their majors freely. Students who draw
through the lottery still have a chance to switch with another student before
their majors are finally set.

But the lottery is making waves. Critics say it's a sign of lazy governance.

"The college lacks a sense of responsibility. Students should enjoy the right to
choose the majors they prefer, and the college should not sacrifice students'
chances of personal development for the sake of maintaining a balance among
majors," said an Internet user, "Jingshuishenliu", on the news portal sohu.com.

Si Hanhan, a writer at gmw.cn, another news portal, said that instead of
deciding majors in such an "irresponsible" way, universities should readjust the
majors offered and eliminate those that don't meet the needs of the job market,
as well as offer more guidance to students in choosing their majors.

Si also said that the school's policy of allowing the top 190 students to choose
their own majors is "discrimination."

An official surnamed Su, who works in the publicity department of the
university, said the policy has been in place for years. The school had also
sought advice from instructors and students twice in the past, Su said.

"After one year of study, students whose performance is in the top 10 percent
can apply to change their major," she said.

A student who had just drawn a major told Beijing Times: "I think it is quite
fair. Students are encouraged to study hard to gain the chance to freely choose
majors.

(China Daily USA 09/15/2015 page6)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1496


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              586 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           September 14, 2015 Monday

Students get ideal majors, but only if they're lucky

BYLINE: Xinhua in Changsha

LENGTH: 348  words


The auditorium at the University of South China in Hunan province was crowded on
the evening of Sept 8, when hundreds of students gathered to decide their majors
through luck of the draw - a lottery system.

"We were forced to take these measures," said school official Lu Qinghua. "If
choosing a major is based solely on students' wants, some majors will be
overcrowded and others will have difficulty enrolling enough students. There are
some other colleges that use this method."

Not all of the department's 585 students must rely on luck, Lu said. The top 190
students in the department may choose their majors freely. Students who draw
through the lottery still have a chance to switch with another student before
their majors are finally set.

But the lottery is making waves. Critics say it's a sign of lazy governance.

"The college lacks a sense of responsibility. Students should enjoy the right to
choose the majors they prefer, and the college should not sacrifice students'
chances of personal development for the sake of maintaining a balance among
majors," said an Internet user, "Jingshuishenliu", on the news portal sohu.com.

Si Hanhan, a writer at gmw.cn, another news portal, said that instead of
deciding majors in such an "irresponsible" way, universities should readjust the
majors offered and eliminate those that don't meet the needs of the job market,
as well as offer more guidance to students in choosing their majors.

Si also said that the school's policy of allowing the top 190 students to choose
their own majors is "discrimination."

An official surnamed Su, who works in the publicity department of the
university, said the policy has been in place for years. The school had also
sought advice from instructors and students twice in the past, Su said.

"After one year of study, students whose performance is in the top 10 percent
can apply to change their major," she said.

A student who had just drawn a major told Beijing Times: "I think it is quite
fair. Students are encouraged to study hard to gain the chance to freely choose
majors.

(China Daily 09/14/2015 page5)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              587 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 13, 2015
                                 First Edition

The new threat to the NHS: 'over-diagnosis' by doctors;
MEDICINE

BYLINE: Charlie Cooper HEALTH CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 442 words


A campaign to prevent doctors from "over-treating" patients is to be launched
this week, amid increasing evidence that many routine procedures and
prescriptions are not only unnecessary and wasteful, but may well cause harm.

The Choosing Wisely programme - inspired by similar schemes in the US, Canada,
Germany and Australia - will see the royal colleges of medicine draw up lists of
procedures that expert opinion now suggests should not be used routinely, if at
all.

Doctors will be asked to ensure patients are fully informed about the potential
risks of their treatment, and patients will be encouraged to challenge their
doctors' decision.

There is growing evidence that patients are being over-diagnosed and
over-treated for a wide range of conditions including prostate and thyroid
cancers, asthma, and high blood pressure.

Writing in the British Medical Journal today, leading doctors argue that the
heart of the problem is a culture of "defensive medicine" - with doctors willing
to try every test or treatment at their disposal rather than be accused of
negligence for or of missing a warning sign. Biased reporting of the benefits of
drugs in medical journals, and NHS payment systems that reward the amount of
work doctors do, rather than the quality, also contribute, they write.

The initiative is backed by the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges, which
represents the 20 royal colleges and faculties of the UK and Ireland.

Dr Aseem Malhotra (left), a cardiologist and consultant clinical associate to
the academy, said he believed over-diagnosis and over-treatment was "the
greatest threat" to the NHS. "We have an imbalance," he said. "An overmedicated
population with unhealthy lifestyles. Unless we deal with it now the NHS will go
bankrupt - there's no doubt about it.

"If defensive medicine didn't have any harms it wouldn't be such a problem - but
it does cause harm."

Treatments to query Britain may follow the example of Canada, where the Choosing
Wisely initiative is already well under way. Leading medical organisations there
have included the following procedures among "things physicians and patients
should question": ? Use of antibiotics for chest infections where a virus is the
likely cause; ? Chest X-rays and electrocardiograms for patients at low risk of
heart disease; ? Use of CT scans in minor injury cases or for children with
suspected appendicitis; ? Active treatment of localised, low-risk prostate
cancer; ? Cancer tests for patients who have already had cancer, where there is
no expectation that early detection of recurrence could improve their survival
chances; ? Chemotherapy for some patients with advanced cancer.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              588 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday

Careers - the right path

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 329 words


We all want what's best for our children and often have our own ideas of which
career path we would like them to take, or whether we have aspirations of them
eventually heading off to university.

At the age of leaving school, teenagers are under a lot of pressure to make
life-changing decisions and to understand their own minds.

It's ultimately a decision they have to reach themselves, but in order to help
them make up their minds, parents can ensure their child is equipped with all
the information they need about the choices they have.

If your child is certain they want to carry on in further education, taking
their A-levels or equivalent qualifications, the next big decision is choosing
which college they would like to attend.

There are several options in Hull and the East Riding and several factors which
could affect their choice of establishment, such as location, variety of courses
or even which social activities or interest groups are provided by the college.

The easiest way to get to know the various colleges is to get hold of a
prospectus for the coming year and even attend their open days - that way your
child can chat to teachers and current students about the course they are
interested in and the college facilities in general.

It doesn't all have to be about A-Levels either as there are plenty of NVQ
courses in specific trades and career areas for those who have a better idea of
the type of work they are interested in pursuing.

For those who are not as keen to continue their studies, but want to build a
career as soon as they leave school, apprenticeships are definitely the way
forward.

There are many companies offering the chance of learning a trade on-site in a
number of career options, including business, administration and law to arts,
media and publishing and even agriculture, animal care and construction.

Whatever your child's skills and strengths, make sure they reach their full
potential by choosing the right career path for them.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 88


                         Copyright 2009 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved


                              589 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday

Careers - the right path

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 329 words


We all want what's best for our children and often have our own ideas of which
career path we would like them to take, or whether we have aspirations of them
eventually heading off to university.

At the age of leaving school, teenagers are under a lot of pressure to make
life-changing decisions and to understand their own minds.

It's ultimately a decision they have to reach themselves, but in order to help
them make up their minds, parents can ensure their child is equipped with all
the information they need about the choices they have.

If your child is certain they want to carry on in further education, taking
their A-levels or equivalent qualifications, the next big decision is choosing
which college they would like to attend.

There are several options in Hull and the East Riding and several factors which
could affect their choice of establishment, such as location, variety of courses
or even which social activities or interest groups are provided by the college.

The easiest way to get to know the various colleges is to get hold of a
prospectus for the coming year and even attend their open days - that way your
child can chat to teachers and current students about the course they are
interested in and the college facilities in general.

It doesn't all have to be about A-Levels either as there are plenty of NVQ
courses in specific trades and career areas for those who have a better idea of
the type of work they are interested in pursuing.

For those who are not as keen to continue their studies, but want to build a
career as soon as they leave school, apprenticeships are definitely the way
forward.

There are many companies offering the chance of learning a trade on-site in a
number of career options, including business, administration and law to arts,
media and publishing and even agriculture, animal care and construction.

Whatever your child's skills and strengths, make sure they reach their full
potential by choosing the right career path for them.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 88


                         Copyright 2009 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved


                              590 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday

Careers - the right path

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 329 words


We all want what's best for our children and often have our own ideas of which
career path we would like them to take, or whether we have aspirations of them
eventually heading off to university.

At the age of leaving school, teenagers are under a lot of pressure to make
life-changing decisions and to understand their own minds.

It's ultimately a decision they have to reach themselves, but in order to help
them make up their minds, parents can ensure their child is equipped with all
the information they need about the choices they have.

If your child is certain they want to carry on in further education, taking
their A-levels or equivalent qualifications, the next big decision is choosing
which college they would like to attend.

There are several options in Hull and the East Riding and several factors which
could affect their choice of establishment, such as location, variety of courses
or even which social activities or interest groups are provided by the college.

The easiest way to get to know the various colleges is to get hold of a
prospectus for the coming year and even attend their open days - that way your
child can chat to teachers and current students about the course they are
interested in and the college facilities in general.

It doesn't all have to be about A-Levels either as there are plenty of NVQ
courses in specific trades and career areas for those who have a better idea of
the type of work they are interested in pursuing.

For those who are not as keen to continue their studies, but want to build a
career as soon as they leave school, apprenticeships are definitely the way
forward.

There are many companies offering the chance of learning a trade on-site in a
number of career options, including business, administration and law to arts,
media and publishing and even agriculture, animal care and construction.

Whatever your child's skills and strengths, make sure they reach their full
potential by choosing the right career path for them.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 88


                         Copyright 2009 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved


                              591 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                              May 9, 2015 Saturday

Science, Commerce No More an Anathema for Students

LENGTH: 505 words

DATELINE: VIJAYAWADA


VIJAYAWADA, May 9 -- In a noticeable shift in the trend of students opting for
engineering or medicine after completing their Intermediate course, more are now
choosing sciences or commerce at the graduate level, as the job opportunities
are equally good for them too these days.

It is not that the attraction of either engineering or medicine has come down,
it is still very much there, but the students are also focusing on other areas
and courses like BSc and B.Com after their Inter.

"Since the last couple of years we are witnessing this shift in the trend, as
the merit students, who normally used to go for engineering after completing
their Intermediate course are increasingly choosing BSc and even BCom as the job
opportunities for them have become aplenty," said T Vijayalakshmi, Principal of
Sri Durga Malleswara Siddhartha Mahila Kalasala here.

She said that the efforts of the degree colleges to turn out students not just
good at academics but equipped with good communication and other skills have
started yielding results. "It is evident from the placements of our students in
different companies. Compared to last year, the number of placements this
academic year has been good. It is almost double of what it was earlier," she
said.

Seconding her view, K Sridhar, HoD of Computer Science department of the PB
Siddhartha College here and its placement officer, said there had been a
definite change in the trend. "There was a time when the students used to wait
for a year to get into an engineering college, but not anymore. They are also
increasingly preferring degree courses like BSc and BCom not only because the
period of study for these courses is one year less than that of professional
ones, but also because they are cheaper and the fact that nowadays various
companies are coming forward to recruit them," he added.

It may be mentioned that of late industrialists appearing at different forums
have been saying that the majority of the engineering graduates coming out of
the colleges nowadays are lacking employable skills and that they (the students)
have to make do with some non-engineering jobs.

For some time now, the HR managers of the companies scouting for the potential
employees on the college campuses are recruiting non-engineering graduates for
such jobs, as retaining them is not that difficult and the pay packages are also
less than those of the engineering graduates. "Students who are observing the
trend are increasingly joining degree courses in sciences and commerce, where
job-oriented specialised streams are being introduced," says Sridhar.

Though admitting that job opportunities for non-engineering graduates have
increased, Vijay Maruti Babu, Placement Officer of VR Siddhartha Institute of
Engineering and Technology, said that the importance of engineering had not
diminished.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              592 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                           September 14, 2012 Friday

81 percent of parents believe college is very important to their child's future

LENGTH: 191  words

DATELINE: RIVERWOODS, Ill


    Some 81 percent of parents believe college is very important to their
child's future while 70 percent say that earning potential is more or about as
important than choosing a major, as per a national survey of parents with
college-bound teens.   Carlos Minetti, president of consumer banking and
operations at Discover, said there is no question that graduates with a college
 degree have more job opportunities and earning potential than those who did
not receive a higher education. However, as the cost of attending college
continues to rise, parents are clearly weighing what college majors are worth
in the workforce.  The survey of 800 adults with children 16 to 18 years old
who are planning on going to college shows that another 21 percent of parents
did not think income potential was more important than a major.  It was
commissioned by Discover Student Loans, the third largest originator of student
 loans in the country. When choosing a college, 86 percent of parents said the
cost was very important or somewhat important in the choice, while 7 percent
said cost was not very important and 5 percent said not at all important.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              593 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                      August 11, 2016 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Leading Kolkata colleges battle it out at the Jefferson Debates

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 844  words


Kolkata, Aug 11 (IBNS): Leading Kolkata colleges debated strongly but wisely on
the topic 'Presidential Systems tend to focus Electoral Campaigns on
Personalities rather than Political Platforms' at the fifth edition of 'The
Jefferson Debates' organised by The American Centre Kolkata and iLEAD on
Wednesday.

Moderated by Deputy Public Affairs Officer of the U.S Consulate Kolkata, Greg
Pardo, arguments both for and against the topic saw participants speaking on
diverse issues like rising terrorism, inequality, poverty to the role played by
the media in relation to the political institutions to drive home their point.
The participating colleges included Jadavpur University, RCC Institute of
Information Technology, iLEAD, St. Josephs College, Netaji Subhash Engineering
College, Army Institute Of Management, Meghnad Saha Institute of Technology,
United Business School, Calcutta University (Department of Law), Bhawanipur
Education Society College and Loreto College. Aishwarya from RCC IIT Kolkata
stated personalities are in fact the centre of focus during a campaign,
supporting her claim by quoting the Republican candidate Donald Trumps extreme
views on Muslims and Mexicans, which were a sharp contrast to his party and
nations beliefs. Srijita from Jadavpur University said, Politics has always been
issue based and not personality based. adding that Trumps views were not simply
racist or bigoted but in fact aligned with that of his partys because they
wanted to focus more on Americans and less on immigrants. Tarunima from Loreto
College began her speech by describing the concept of a political system, saying
that it does not exist in a vacuum, and emanates from society itself, while a
political platform essentially implies a document that is the partys ideology.
In the current U.S elections, when you see Donald Trumps own party members
refusing to vote for him, it is a clear violation of the political platform and
it puts the political platform in the backseat and the politician in front, she
said. She added,Even with Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton, who had almost
similar opinions because of their political platform, there was a keen contest
because of their personal interpretation of this issue. Opposing her was Anisha
from iLead who said, The presidential system cannot survive without a set of
mottos, agenda, motives etc, and these are the things followed by a party since
time immemorial. Presidents come and go, but these policies stay. According to
her it is the party which matters and not the candidate. However, there must be
perfect synchronisation between the two for the progress of a country, said
Anisha. Nitika, the second speaker from Loreto College, adopted a rather
tongue-in-cheek attitude. She said that there is an increasing trend of memes
and trolls and cartoons based on the politicians --even greater focus on their
private lives than focus on the partys stand -- is blurring the lines between
celebrities and politicians. While a representative from Meghnad Saha Institute
of Technology said that both personality and the political platform were equally
important, his opponent from United World School of Business argued that it was
essentially the personality who mattered the most. {image_1}Another candidate
from iLEAD speaking for the motion put forward a crucial question, What is the
difference between Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton and Ted Cruz and Donald
Trump? If they were from the same party and yet people were choosing between
them, then it meant that they were choosing personalities than just the
political party, he said, while his fellow teammate put forth the point that if
you had a leader who you could relate to, you would actually be voting for his
policies and motives. Even though every participant presented well crafted
arguments, three teams were finally chosen as the winners by the panel of judges
consisting of Pradeep Gooptu, Secretary, Bengal Initiative, Sabir Siddhartha
Ghaffar, President, Youth Initiative India and Tinku Roy, Political Affairs
Specialist, U.S. Consulate Kolkata. The winning team was Loreto College
represented by Nitika Nayar, Tarunima Panwar, Pravleen Kaur Chaudhury while the
1st runner up was Calcutta University (Dept of Law) led by Adwitia Maity,
Anindita Bhattacharjee, Suryasikha Ray and the 2nd runner up was team iLead
represented by Anisha Das, Tridha Ghosal and Aman Rahim. Commenting on the
debate, Greg Pardo said that in reality, it was essentially a mix of both the
personality and the political platform and if in some cases people were voting
for a leader based on his/her personality and his/her personal views, others
were breaking away from tradition and choosing to go with the partys policies. I
am happy we partnered with iLead to host the Jefferson Debate. Im even more
honoured to moderate the debate between these young brilliant minds. The U.S.
Presidential elections do serve as an example for the world and its great that
these young students are following them so keenly, said Pardo. (Reporting by
Tanushree Sen, IBNS)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2016 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              594 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                Hull Daily Mail

                             August 25, 2017 Friday

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 6-7

LENGTH: 535  words


Traditionally, teenagers might simply have had to choose between taking A-levels
or studying vocational qualifications.

But these days, the options are far more varied.

From foundation degrees to diplomas, apprenticeships to BTECs, there is more
choice than ever when it comes to post-16 education.

Many colleges and training providers also offer mix-and-match pathways, so the
next stage in your education can be as imaginative and varied as you want it to
be.

In the next few pages, we've detailed the kinds of qualifications and courses
you could take in the next stage of your education - and offered some tips on
how to make your decision.

Choosing your course

One of the hardest decisions students might have to make is choosing the content
of what they will actually learn.

If you know what it is you want to do after you leave school - whether it's
hairdresser, builder, administrator or marketing - there is likely to be a
vocational course on offer in that subject.

Diplomas will give you a background in a particular career, which might set you
on a straight and narrow path to the job you want.

Apprenticeships - which you can read about in more detail in the next few pages
- will give you on-the-job training.

And other qualifications, like the International baccalaureate, will help you
develop a different kind of unique skill set.

It is worth taking a close look at the prospectus, though, and finding out as
much about the course as you can to find out whether it suits you.

When considering your course, also consider what a particular setting might be
able to offer you - consider things like work experience or extra-curricular
activities, especially if you already know what you want to do when you leave.

But for other students, a more traditional, academic route might be the best
thing.

If you are considering studying an academic subject at university, for example,
you ought to have an eye on the kinds of courses they might expect you to have.

Aspiring doctors, for instance, will be expected to have A-Levels in biology and
chemistry, while astronauts will be expected to have maths and physics A-Levels.

Even when it comes to the arts, students considering studying traditional
academic subjects at Russell Group universities will be expected on the whole to
have a handful of traditional qualifications.

And while there is a lot of excitement and encouragement behind more students
studying vocational qualifications, sometimes the traditional A-level is the
right route for you.

Whatever you decide, it is always worth seeking guidance from your teachers.
They know you best, and are best placed to suggest where you go next.

What the qualifications mean

Whatever qualification you choose to study next, it can be useful to know how
difficult they all are.

Employers will use your grades at a certain level of qualification to determine
what skill set you have, and whether you have learned enough to fill a
particular role.

So it can be useful to be clued up on the lingo.

Here is what they mean:

Entry level - suitable for students who have no GCSEs

Level 1 - equal to at least four GCSEs below grade C

Level 2 - equal to at least four GCSEs at grade C or above

Level 3 - equal to two or three A Levels

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              595 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                           December 1, 2007 Saturday

Playing the market: Seventh-graders vie with college students to pick the best
stocks

BYLINE: Wendy Leonard Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 523 words


Students at Westminster College are teaming up against seventh-graders from
Rowland Hall-St. Mark's School to compete at choosing stocks, putting a virtual
$1 million on the line.

The students went head-to-head Friday for a six-week contest to determine who
can pick a better stock portfolio, and the winners will get pizza from the
opposing team.

"None of us are financial gurus, but we all know there are a few stocks that are
always good," said John Cook, an economics major and captain of Westminster's
team. "This is a great way to get them excited about the financial world, which
is really going to be the focus in their future."

Eight honors students at Westminster will try to best 19 seventh-graders who
have elected to take a six-week personal finance class at Rowland Hall. Stephen
Bennhoff, principal at the middle school and professor of the class, said it
gives the students a practical approach to how to handle money. Nearly 75
percent of the private school's enrolled students end up taking Bennhoff's
course.

"We learn how money works in their world," Bennhoff said. The course involves
information about checking, credit and debit accounts, as well as interest and
investment options. He said the contest experience will allow his students to
see how volatile the market can be, giving them practical experience.

When the class began on Monday, most of the class was unaware what a stock even
was.

"We're hoping for that real underdog story," Bennhoff said.

The middle-schoolers split into seven teams, all named after famous investors,
and each chose two to three stocks to invest in. They will collectively compete
against the college students, who picked about a dozen stocks of their own in
which to invest their $1 million.

"Because it's Christmas, we picked stocks we believe that people will be buying
into this time of year," Cook said.

Names like Costco, Best Buy, Anheuser Busch and other retailers and airlines
showed up in the college students' portfolio. The seventh-graders took a
different approach, choosing energy and oil companies, winter-clothing retailers
and several lesser-known companies in which to place their trust.

Meghan Henderson, one of the seventh-graders, said the class has been watching
several stock prices throughout the week in order to help make their guesses.
Her team picked up Chevron and Goldman Sachs, hoping that the holiday rush in
the economy would increase the seventh-graders' chances of winning.

Ryan Hessenthaler, assistant professor of finance at Westminster and a former
stock trader, was on hand to officiate the contest and to show students how to
use Investopedia, a simulated online trading program, but he was tight-lipped
about offering trading advice.

"They'll all come out of this with a better understanding of what a stock is and
if they should invest in them, as well as how to do it," he said. "They'll see
how the markets work and learn the risks associated."

He was impressed with the diversity of the portfolios and said it could be
"anyone's game."

"In a short six- or seven-week time period, it's really a coin toss,"
Hessenthaler said. E-mail: wleonard@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                              596 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                            November 26, 2007 Monday

An `official' vehicle guide

BYLINE: By Janette Williams, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 536 words



* Video: The public figure's guide to purchasing cars with public funds

PASADENA - No one expects college presidents to be "automotive experts,"
automotive expert Roy Nakano says.

So Nakano, executive editor of the San Gabriel-based online magazine LACar.com,
has done their homework for them.

"The Public Figure's Guide to Buying Cars With Public Funds," he said, was
inspired by Pasadena City College President Paulette Perfumo's much-criticized
choice of a luxury Cadillac DeVille Touring Sedan as her personal college-funded
transportation.

College presidents, as Nakano writes in his "Back Seat Driving" column, are
"often put in the precarious position of having to lead by example."

It's too late to influence Perfumo, he said Monday, but she could perhaps have
used his guide in choosing something other than a top-of-the-line, $54,244.46
Cadillac that gets about 14 miles to the gallon in city driving.

"I realize what she did was entirely legal and literally above the board,"
Nakano said, referring to the PCC board of trustee's approval of the purchase.

"But the head of an educational institution like PCC has to be careful about
perceptions."

Perfumo did not respond to requests for comment Monday.

But on Nov. 12, she said she'd owned the same model Cadillac at her last job as
president of Solano Community College District and needs a large car to
accommodate her 5-foot-8 height and a "bad leg."

As part of her employment package, Perfumo has use of a car of her choice - plus
taxes, license, gasoline card and maintenance - on top of her $183,000 salary.

Nakano said he compiled his list, available at www.lacar.com, as "a good way to
showcase what I thought were excellent vehicles if you are going to use public
funds."

All his choices come in at "well under $30,000" and he also considered high
resale value, environmental issues, gas mileage and "vehicles that send a
message in terms of conserving the environment and gas consumption."

Beth Wells Miller, the only trustee who voted against approving the Cadillac
purchase, said the guide was "a good concept" but shouldn't be necessary.

"I would expect people to show good judgement and use some common sense" in
choosing a suitable subsidized car, she said.

"You would think in selecting a car you would take into account how it was
perceived by the public, and take into consideration fuel economy and
(environmental) factors." she said. "We're all public servants and it's
important to remember that and be prudent in expenditures."

On Nakano's list are: Chevrolet Malibu Hybrid, Ford Escape Hybrid, Honda FCX
Clarity, available only for lease next summer, Mercury Mariner Hybrid and Toyota
Prius.

Honorable mentions are: Honda Civic Hybrid, Mazda Tribute Hybrid, Nissan Altima
Hybrid, Saturn Aura Green Line, Saturn VUE Green Line, Toyota Camry Hybrid, and
Volkswagen Jetta TDI, available in 2008.

"High fuel economy, eco-friendliness and cost are attributes that should be
taken into consideration," Nakano said. "If you happen to be a lawmaker, you'll
need to add manufacturing origin and American branding to the list. In the end,
when it comes to cars driven by public figures, perception is everything."

janette.williams@sgvn.com

(626) 578-6300, Ext. 4482

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              597 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                             March 16, 2014 Sunday

Colorado schools deny spike in applications sparked by marijuana law '

LENGTH: 444 words


Colorado colleges and universities deny their links to the recent spike in new
applications largely believed as due to their legalization of marijuana./
Courtesy of Fox News Colorado colleges and universities have seen a dramatic
jump in applications, including from out of state, following the legalization of
marijuana, but officials insist there's no drug connection, Fox News reported.

Applications to the University of Colorado are up 30 percent since Amendment 64
made recreational pot legal, according to Director of Admissions Kevin
MacLennan.

But while several marijuana advocates told FoxNews.com it is hardly surprising
that the Centennial State would become a mecca for college-bound tokers,
MacLennan disagrees.

'We aren't getting a lot of questions about this,' MacLennan said, referring to
the new law.

He said a better explanation for the rise in applications is increased
recruitment at high schools across the country and abroad and the university's
adoption of the Common Application, which facilitates students' ability to apply
to multiple schools around the nation using a single form.

Colorado College has also seen a rise in applications, but Mark Hatch, vice
president for enrollment, said it is part of a longer-term trend.

'This year is no different, so there is no evidence that our increase [is tied]
to Amendment 64,' Hatch told FoxNews.com in an email.

Hatch fears the new pot law could actually be a drag on applications, as
out-of-state parents reject the idea of their tuition money going up in smoke.

But both students and marijuana advocates say graduates looking to experience
Rocky Mountain high is not such a bad thing.

'I don't know that students would apply here solely because of the new law, but
if they were choosing between two comparable schools, I could see them choosing
University of Colorado because of that,' said Kathryn Krempasky, a 21-year-old
senior from Denver.

Kate Brickley, a 22-year-old senior at University of Colorado, from Oakland,
California, agreed. 'Some of the kids I've talked to back home think it's a big
deal, like ¡®Oh my god, you can smoke legally,'' she said.

Parents don't like to admit it, but students going off to college to party is
hardly new. Rachel Gillette, executive director of the Colorado chapter of the
National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML), said smoking pot
in college has an appeal for students similar to drinking.

'I can see how Amendment 64 could be an incentive for some prospective students
to apply to college in the State of Colorado,' Gillette said. 'From a college
student's perspective, we can analogize it to alcohol. Young people do
appreciate freedom.'

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              598 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           November 16, 2010 Tuesday
                                  All Editions

More students choosing 4 years;
Transfers from community colleges up 12 percent, UMS officials say

BYLINE: JUDY HARRISON OF THE NEWS STAFF

SECTION: Pg. B1

LENGTH: 631 words

DATELINE: FARMINGTON


Enrollment of first-year students across the University of Maine System grew
only 4.4 percent this fall to 4,236, but the number of students transferring
from one of the state's community colleges to a four-year campus rose 12 percent
over last year, according to a UMS press release.

"The number of Maine community college students choosing to pursue a four-year
degree continues to grow," Rosa Redonnett, UMS executive director of student
affairs, said Monday after a board of trustees meeting at the University of
Maine at Farmington. "Our campuses are working with MCCS staff to further
simplify the transfer process and provide counsel to prospective students."

Distance education and the offering of online classes continues to grow at the
seven campuses in the system. The percentage of credit hours offered through
interactive television and at distance learning centers such as the Hutchinson
Center in Belfast also has increased. The percentage of distance education
credit hours offered grew 8.5 percent over the previous year and online credit
hours increased by 27 percent, according to Redonnett.

The enrollment report, which noted that overall enrollment is relatively flat,
was one of more than a dozen items the UMS trustees dealt with in a meeting that
began Sunday afternoon and ended Monday.

Rebecca Wyke, UMS vice chancellor for finance and administration, told trustees
that all seven campuses and the system office ended the fiscal year on June 30
in balance. Operating expenditures, according to the press release, were $5
million less than expenditures were the previous fiscal year.

In other business, the board approved the elimination of Bachelor of Science
degrees in bilingual secondary education and English-drama-art secondary
education at the University of Maine at Fort Kent. Trustees also OK'd the
creation of an associate of science degree in dental assisting at the University
of Maine at Augusta. New mission statements for the University of Maine, UMF and
the University of Southern Maine were endorsed, the press release said.

In addition, trustees authorized the following construction and renovation
projects:

.  $4.85 million to renovate Alfond Arena at UMaine, including new
dehumidification, ventilation and ice-making systems to be paid for by grants
from the Harold Alfond Foundation, Efficiency Maine and private donors.

.  $3.75 million from a June 2010 general obligation bond to improve energy
efficiency and replace building systems at UMaine's Nutting Hall, home of the
School of Forest Resources and the Department of Wildlife Ecology.

.  $2.02 million from a combination of federal and state grants and a state bond
for renovation of the Folsom-Pullen classroom building at the University of
Maine at Presque Isle to improve energy efficiency, renovate classroom space and
update the building's mechanical systems.

.  $850,000 in funding from the U.S. Small Business Administration to establish
a science technology research center on USM's Portland campus to increase the
capacity to serve students in science and biology programs.

.  $767,250 in grant funding awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services to renovate and expand USM's existing nursing simulation lab in
Portland from two beds to four beds and update related equipment, patient rooms,
simulated patient mannequins and office space.

.  $983,000 to purchase and renovate facilities in Falmouth to create UMaine's
Tidewater Regional Learning Center, which will house Cumberland County
Cooperative Extension offices and programs, and establish new teaching
facilities and a farm-based demonstration area to be funded by one-time
Cooperative Extension funds, a donation from the Tidewater Conservation
Foundation and private donors.

jharrison@bangordailynews.com

990-8207

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Bangor Daily News


                              599 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              June 1, 2014 Sunday

Parents and students throng Times Edufest

SECTION: KOLHAPUR

LENGTH: 333 words


KOLHAPUR: Amid large number of students and parents, the second Times Edufest
was inaugurated on Saturday in the presence of additional police superintendent
Ankit Goyal.

While addressing the gathering at a packed V T Patil hall on Kamala College
campus, Goyal said, "Students should focus on their career from a very early
stage. Choosing career and making right decision is something that we all have
to go through. Even I have gone through a similar phase in my life. After
completing different undergraduate courses, I realised I would rather love to
serve the nation through Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) than work in the
field I might not be satisfied with."

P D Deshpande, treasurer of city-based NGO Helpers of The Handicapped said,
"Every student must take in account his/her interest while choosing career
rather than going for money. To achieve success in a particular field, setting
goals and working towards it makes the work simpler."

In another event at the festival on Saturday, Deepak Mudgal, managing director
of Ashokrao Mane Group of Institutes, guided the students about opportunities in
engineering field.

The Edufest will feature seminars on Joint Entrance Exam and parents'
participation in career selection on Sunday from 4pm.

Kiran Mane, who appeared for class X exam and visited the Edufest with her
friends, told TOI, "This is a one-stop shop for getting knowledge about taking
future decisions. I got a lot of information during the first session about
opportunities in the field of engineering."

The festival will be open till June 2 from 10am to 8pm. There is no entry fee
for the fair. Students and parents can call on 9850056999 to seek further
details about the education fair.

While the Ashokrao Mane Group of Institutes is sponsoring the event, Vijeta
Academy and Nanasaheb Mahadik Technical Campus are the co-sponsors.

Top educational institutes from Sangli, Satara, Pune, Kolhapur and Belgaum are
participating in the fair.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              600 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     High Point Enterprise (North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             May 21, 2009 Thursday

High Point Christian Academy celebrates college-bound athletes

BYLINE: Steve Hanf, High Point Enterprise, N.C.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 1027 words


May 21--Demetrius Monroe and Jermaine Martinez arrived at High Point Christian
Academy as juniors.

After two years of being teammates on the basketball court, they're looking
forward to spending the next four seasons as rivals in Conference Carolinas.

"We're gonna kill 'em," said a grinning Martinez when asked about Pfeiffer
University's matchup against St. Andrews Presbyterian College.

"We'll win the conference championship," responded Monroe, the future Knight.
"It'll be fun."

Monroe and Martinez were among eight Cougar athletes honored Wednesday at a
signing ceremony in the HPCA media center. Monroe, a 6-foot-6 standout formerly
from High Point Central, and Martinez, a powerful 6-5 presence from Dudley, both
earned scholarships to the NCAA Division II schools.

Their only regret from the past two years? Not leading the Cougars to a
championship.

"It had its ups and downs," Monroe said. "We finished the season earlier than we
wanted to, but the school environment has been pretty fun."

Agreed Martinez: "We didn't have the season we wanted to our senior year, but I
grew a lot. It really made me mature."

And Martinez said he's not finished growing as a player. In choosing Pfeiffer
over the likes of Winston Salem, Belmont Abbey and Barton College, Martinez --
who plans to major in sports medicine -- said coach Dave Davis' pointed words on
a campus visit grabbed his attention.

"He told me I had to pick my game up about 10 notches. I took that as a
challenge," said Martinez of joining one of the nation's most prolific offensive
squads. "Coach said he'll work me, and I can appreciate that. I never thought
I'd go to Pfeiffer, but they never stopped recruiting me."

Monroe, who plans to major in sports management, gave Pfeiffer a look along with
Abbey and Methodist before choosing the Laurinburg school.

"On my visit it was a nice fit," Monroe said.

Will Ashby heads the farthest away of this year's crop of HPCA signees. The
school's all-time leading goal scorer and a two-time all-state performer will
play for the Carson-Newman soccer team in Jefferson City, Tenn.

"It took a lot of work, but I've wanted to play in college since my freshman
year," Ashby said of joining the NCAA D-II South Atlantic Conference squad.

Ashby, who also plays for the '90 PTFC Black club team and was seen by college
coaches in some of those showcases, helped High Point Christian turn a new
varsity program into a powerhouse. In four years, the team won two Triad
Athletic Conference championships and reached the 2A state semifinals the last
two seasons.

"It's been really good to see it start as varsity when I was in ninth grade --
we've done really well," Ashby said. "Coach (Shawn) Mehegan has done a really
great job with us."

The Eagles' soccer team is a perennial contender in the SAC and a regular in the
NCAA Tournament, which played a big role in Ashby choosing Carson-Newman over
schools such as Lenoir-Rhyne and Messiah College.

"I love the coach (Allen Vital), I liked the campus and it's a strong program,"
said Ashby, who plans to major in biology on a pre-med track.

Rebecca Leigh said she'll study health and exercise science at Meredith College
in Raleigh. The softball standout will compete for the NCAA D-III school in the
USA South Conference at second base and outfield after an all-state career with
the Cougars and strong travel ball performances with the High Point Heat.

"Freshman year my dad sat me down and said, "Rebecca, I want to know if this is
what you really want to do. If it is, we've got to get started now,' " Leigh
recalled of the advice from her father, Fred. "I found a summer ball team and
I've been working at it ever since."

Leigh looked at other non-scholarship schools such as Methodist and NAIA squad
Southern Wesleyan before connecting with Methodist coach Robert Luckadoo and
agreeing to play for the Avenging Angels.

"I really love the coach, I love the school and it's great academically," Leigh
offered.

"It's all girls -- but there are boys across the street at (N.C.) State, so
that's not a problem," she added with a laugh. "And I've got a good friend going
there."

David Whiteman's sister, Melissa, will be a senior at High Point University next
year, which is one of the reasons he looked at HPU. After picking where he
wanted to attend college, Whiteman then approached the track and field side of
things. He'll join the Panthers as an invited walk-on of sorts after starring in
the 110 and 300 hurdles for the Cougars.

"We had a track practice there one time and those guys really knew what they
were doing," said Whiteman, who is looking into the medical field. "I talked to
the coach and that's how things worked out."

Baseball teammates Conner Scarborough and Noah Blackmore just got done
celebrating a state championship over the weekend. Now, a signing ceremony.

"Icing on the cake," said Scarborough, who will pitch for D-I Gardner-Webb.

"A good end to a good year," added Blackmore, the speedy center fielder headed
to D-III Methodist University.

Scarborough, who signed in November, chose the Big South's Bulldogs over
Liberty, Charleston Southern, Wingate and The Citadel.

"On my official visit I stayed with some of the players and we had a lot in
common," he said of his decision. "The coaches were great and really made me
feel welcomed. I feel I can spend four years there."

Blackmore also gave Methodist an early commitment, choosing the USA South school
in Fayetteville over Southern Wesleyan, Trevecca Nazarene in Tennessee and
Greensboro College.

"It feels like the right place for me to be," said Blackmore, who plans to major
in sports management or sports science. "I feel like it's a good fit on the
team, and a smaller college is a good fit academically for me."

shanf@hpe.com -- 888-3526

To see more of the High Point Enterprise, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.hpe.com. Copyright (c) 2009, High Point Enterprise, N.C.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090521-HP-High-Point-Christian-Academy-celebrates-college
-bound-athletes-0521

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HP


                      Copyright 2009 High Point Enterprise


                              601 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                     The Times Higher Education Supplement

                                 July 21, 1995

Academics keep CAT in the bag; Credit accumulation and transfer systems

BYLINE: TONY TYSOME

SECTION: Issue 1185, Pg.7

LENGTH: 698 words


Universities, colleges and professional bodies are reluctant to pull the wide
array of credit accumulation and transfer systems across further and higher
education into a unified framework with a single currency, a quality council
report says.

Arguments for the development of a national CAT scheme based on a system which
has growing support in FE were dismissed by most of the 146 institutions and
organisations which responded to the discussion paper Choosing to Change,
published by the Higher Education Quality Council last year.

A report on the responses, issued by the HEQC last week, says other
recommendations including the establishment of a two-year associate degree and
educational vouchers also proved unpopular.

David Robertson, head of the policy and development department at Liverpool John
Moores University and director of the Choosing To Change project, is not
disheartened despite this reaction to some of his more radical ideas.

An unfavourable response from higher education to proposals for an associate
degree was 'predictable', while there was encouraging general support for more
consistency and portability of credit across FE and HE, and a greater
willingness to contemplate vouchers than expected, he says.

Choosing to Change is recognised as an important and timely report, though its
sheer size (360 pages) had many respondents reaching for the executive summary
in an effort to focus their attention on the headline issues. Its length serves
to illustrate the scope of its concerns, spanning funding, quality assurance and
qualifications, while engaging in a comprehensive review of CAT systems.

It also shows that the need for workable CAT systems to improve flexibility of
provision and help student mobility has become a central rather than a secondary
issue for many universities and colleges. For Professor Robertson, it is part of
a move towards a more student centred system with more progression routes and
flexible learning: hence the proposal for a new interim academic qualification
(the associate degree) and vouchers.

While most respondents also saw the recommendations in a context of growth in
modularity and credit schemes, the debate on semesters, accelerated routes and
admissions, there was more support for maintaining the status quo than for
radical change.

On credit accumulation and transfer, there was weak support for the convergence
of existing CAT systems and the development of a common unitary credit currency,
based on 30 hours of notional student learning time per unit.

CAT schemes are a growth industry in FE and HE, with regional systems growing up
around the models developed by the former Further Education Unit and by the
Council for National Academic Awards. The problem is, the systems are not very
compatible. Since most respondents were from HE, they preferred the CNAA system
based on a 120-credit year. They were against a single-credit currency,
preferring the use of conversion factors for movement between systems.

The report says: 'There is enthusiasm neither for a centrally imposed unitary
system of credit overseen by a central bureaucracy, nor for the complete
reorganisation of higher education along credit based lines. But there is
support for the emergence by means of alignment or articulation for an agreed
unified system.'

Professor Robertson's preferred proposals for a two-year associate degree which
could also attract dual accreditation as a higher level General National
Vocational Qualification in some subjects proved less popular. Only 7 per cent
of respondents wanted an associate degree, many feeling it would become a
second-class route and might encourage the Government to limit undergraduate
funding to two years. There was uncertainty over the need for higher level GNVQs
and their status - 5 per cent supported joint accreditation.

There were equal reservations about credit-based education vouchers for
students. Worries about financial and course planning and red tape left only 7
per cent favouring them. There was more support for a credit based formula for
institutional funding with around two-thirds gave qualified support.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                      Copyright 1995 TSL Education Limited


                              602 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                             May 16, 2012 Wednesday

State schools less appealing

BYLINE: The Orange County Register

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. H

LENGTH: 630 words



HIGHLIGHT: More students picking out-of-state colleges.


California keeps breaking. Example: Kids in the state aren't choosing California
universities as much as in the past. According to a survey released last week by
the Public Policy Institute of California, "Enrollment rates at UC and CSU have
fallen by one-fifth over the past five years, from about 22 percent of all high
school graduates to below 18 percent."

Among the state's "most highly prepared high school graduates," the drop is even
sharper, from about 67 percent to 55 percent.

Many kids are choosing community colleges instead, increasing the burdens on
that already-crowded system. However, many of these young students - the best
and the brightest - choose to not "attend college anywhere."

Many others are going to school in other states. This is ominous because
students often first look for work near where they go to school.

PPIC pointed out that a major culprit in the students' plight is the recent
sharp rise in tuition at all state universities in California, a result of the
state's endemic budget problems. Unfortunately, PPIC also advises, "A proposed
tax initiative could lead to increased revenue for the state, with policy-makers
explicitly identifying higher education as a primary beneficiary if the
initiative passes."

That's a reference to Gov. Jerry Brown's $9 billion proposed tax increase, for
which he submitted petitions last week to qualify it for the November ballot.
Actually, the opposite is the real problem: That the state's businesses and
workers already are overburdened with high taxes and too many regulations, and
are going bankrupt or fleeing the state, thus crashing the tax base. More taxes
only would make matters worse.

"The bad weather in other states keeps our students away only so long," Lance
Izumi told us; he's an education-policy analyst for the Pacific Research
Institute. "Yet a lot of California policy-makers think that people will simply
respond to the good weather here. But economic factors are important in the end.
Other states are less expensive, less bureaucratic - and now maybe have
better-quality schools. Policymakers need to see how they're allotting college
money to give students the best bang for their bucks."

As we noted in a recent editorial, university administrative pay remains
shockingly high. Cal State presidents make as much as $400,000 a year in total
compensation. And not enough is going to classrooms. For example, according to
the North County Times, 43 percent of the $23.8 million budget at Cal State San
Marcos in 2010 went to classroom instruction.

Mr. Izumi said state schools still also fund too many pointless courses. "
Colleges need to make hard decisions about what courses they prioritize," he
said. He added that community colleges have been doing a better job, gearing
their courses to preparing students to complete their educations at four-year
universities.

Here's one course we found in Cal State Fullerton course catalog, subsidized
with your tax dollars: "American Studies 346: American Culture Through Spectator
Sports," described as, "Includes analysis of sports rituals, symbols and
heroes." How about just watching ESPN, for the price of a basic-cable
subscription?

Here's another: "Philosophy 384, Philosophy of the Body," described as,
"examining how correcting philosophy's bias towards the mind informs our
understanding of social hierarchy, gender identity and exclusion from public
life." But don't they use the mind to read and discuss class material? Whatever.

"These are hard times that require hard decisions even though some
constituencies will be upset by it," Mr. Izumi urged.

As with a family or business, in hard times, state schools need to cut waste -
pointless classes and bloated administration - to make themselves more
attractive to the rising generation.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              603 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Melton & Moorabool Weekly

                             August 5, 2014 Tuesday
                         WKL Melton & Moorabool Edition

A famine of Facebook in Bacchus Marsh##Students and staff at Bacchus Marsh
College are preparing to do without important aspects of their lives as part of
this year's 40 Hour Famine.

BYLINE: Yasemin Talat

SECTION: EGN; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 228 words


Students and staff at Bacchus Marsh College are preparing to do without
important aspects of their lives as part of this year's 40 Hour Famine.

Food and Facebook are among the many things students will give up for 40 hours
on the weekend of August 15-17 to help fight poverty.

Students and staff who take up the challenge will put poverty in the spotlight
by raising awareness and funds to help World Vision's work in communities around
the world.

Student programs co-ordinator Sonia Reid said students liked to challenge
themselves by choosing to give up technology, often choosing not to use their
phones or social media.

This is the third year the school will take part in the event and it's aiming to
raise $5000 for the cause.

Following World Vision's Global Leader Conventions, which were hosted in each
state, Ms Reid and student leaders are encouraging students and teachers to sign
up for the famine or sponsor someone who has.

"Our job is to encourage as many people to join the 40 Hour Famine as we can,"
Ms Reid said.

"The kids have made posters and published articles in the newsletter, and
teachers and students have spoken at assemblies."

The focus country of the 40 Hour Famine this year is Rwanda.

To register for the 40 Hour Famine, to support someone or for more information,
visit www.40hourfamine.com.au; or to support the school, call 5367 2955.

Yasemin Talat

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              604 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                           September 21, 2009 Monday

Gateway running back Felder chooses North Carolina

BYLINE: The Tribune-Review

LENGTH: 736 words


When choosing a place to spend the next four years, Gateway running back Brendon
Felder acted like he wasn't a football player.

"If I didn't have football at all, where would I want to be for the next four
years?" he asked himself.

That place turned out to be the University of North Carolina, and he gave its
coaches his verbal commitment over the weekend. He also had scholarship offers
from Boston College, Pitt, Maryland, Cincinnati, Illinois and Syracuse.

"Just because of the atmosphere," he said of choosing the Tar Heels. "At North
Carolina, they come together like a family."

Felder, 6-foot-0 and 170 pounds, has helped lead Gateway, the No. 1 team in the
Tribune-Review Class AAAA rankings, to a 3-0 start to the season. He returned a
punt for 60 yards for a touchdown last Thursday in a 49-0 victory at Latrobe.

Felder, who ran a 4.36 40-yard dash at a scout combine in Baltimore, was
recruited to play wide receiver and return kicks at North Carolina.

"It's a relief it's over," he said. "I can concentrate on winning a championship
this year."

Quick turnaround

Central Catholic won't have much time to dwell on its upset loss to Mt. Lebanon.

After losing to the Blue Devils on Saturday, 36-21, Central Catholic has an
unusually short week to prepare for its Thursday night game at Upper St. Clair,
now No. 4 in the Tribune-Review rankings. The game will be televised by FSN.

How will the Vikings do it?

"Gargantuan task," Central coach Terry Totten said. "I don't know."

Despite the short week, Totten said he doesn't plan to ease up on his players in
practice.

"We're going to find out what they're made of," he said. "I am not interested in
coaching an un-tough football team."

Central dropped from No. 2 to No. 8 in the rankings.

First things first

Washington coach Mike Bosnic was alarmed Friday, and it had nothing to do with
his team's opponent, Class AA No. 10 Greensburg Central Catholic.

It all started earlier in the day when his pregnant wife Kathie called him at
school with the news -- her water had broken and she was on her way to Magee
Women's Hospital in Oakland.

"It was very unexpected," he said. "She wasn't due until Oct. 12. I got really
scared on the way to the hospital."

The story has a happy ending.

Bosnic, who is in his first year at Washington after six years as the head coach
at Carmichaels, said he had hoped the birth would occur in time for him to
arrive in Greensburg for the game. But a 6-pound, 10-ounce baby girl, Elyse, did
not cooperate. She was born at 9:42 p.m. -- near the end of her dad's 47-0 loss.

The score of the game was the only negative outcome of the day for Bosnic.

"It was hard for me not to be there," he said.

It was such a thorough beating that Greensburg Central Catholic coach Muzzy
Colosimo had his quarterback take a knee, instead of going for the two-point
conversion, after a touchdown early in the fourth quarter.

Only 'practice'

North Allegheny fell to No. 6 after its 23-14 loss to Upper St. Clair,
committing six turnovers. It could have been worse.

Coach Art Walker Jr. knows the nonconference loss ultimately won't factor into
North Allegheny's playoff chances.

"I'm glad it happened in Week 3, and I'm glad it was a nonconference opponent,"
Walker said. "I'm hopeful that we'll learn from it and respond."

Simon said too much

Apollo-Ridge coach John Simon said he regrets losing his temper, but he will not
coach Friday in his team's home game against Shady Side Academy after he was
ejected during a 42-13 loss to Freeport last week.

Ejections carry an automatic one-game suspension for the next game for players
and coaches.

Simon will be able to coach in practice this week, but he is barred from the
premises Friday. He said it was the first time he was ejected from a game since
he was a senior basketball player at Apollo-Ridge.

"The whole game, I felt the officials were not very accurate on a lot of their
calls," Simon said, "and it wasn't one-sided (against Apollo-Ridge)."

Finally, he stepped onto the field to plead for pass interference against one of
his receivers. The side judge ejected him.

"I voiced my opinion, I wasn't derogatory, but the fact that I stepped on the
field (caused the ejection). He told me to get back and I said, 'If I am on the
field, I am going to call something if I see it.'

"I am sorry that it happened, I am sorry that I did blow my stack, but a coach
can only take so much for his boys."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              605 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                            November 5, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cornwall university numbers booming

BYLINE: LYN BARTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 453 words


More people from Cornwall than ever before are choosing a university-level
education - and the numbers are growing faster than any English region.

Official figures from the Higher Education Statistics Agency show that the
number of people from Cornwall participating in higher education increased by
2,325 to 17,500 between 2004 and 2011 - up 15.3 per cent.

This is more than twice the South West average of 6.2 per cent, and compares to
an average increase of 8.8 per cent across all English regions in the same
period.

The increase coincides with a £316 million investment in higher education in
Cornwall over the last ten years through the Combined Universities in Cornwall
(CUC) initiative, a partnership of six universities and colleges.

The news was welcomed by Gaynor Coley, a director at the Cornwall and Isles of
Scilly Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP).

"What these figures suggest is that the huge investment in university-level
education in Cornwall has helped raise awareness and aspiration among our young
people, and that was always one of the goals. "We are also seeing many more
Cornish people choosing to study in Cornwall, and that's good news for our
skills base and ultimately the local economy," said Mrs Coley, who is LEP
employment and skills board chairman.

CUC director Dr Sue Brownlow said the last ten years had witnessed a cultural
shift in higher education, which had benefited the whole of the county. "More
than a third of our graduates who go on into work find jobs in Cornwall and this
gives a big boost to the local economy." But she added that there was still much
to do. "One of our key areas of focus for the next 12 months is to make sure
local businesses and entrepreneurs are aware of the range of expertise and
resources available to them on their doorstep through the CUC partner
institutions, and really understand how working with universities and colleges
can benefit their business."

Councillor Neil Burden, Cornwall Council's cabinet member for children's
services, which includes responsibility for education and schools, said it was
fantastic that young people were seizing the opportunity to go into higher
education.

"These latest statistics are most heartening and is tangible evidence of the
recent successes of our young people and the high standards delivered by all our
schools," he said.

The CUC initiative has received European investment as well as backing from the
South West Regional Development Agency, Cornwall Council and the Higher
Education Funding Council for England. Partners include the University of
Exeter, Plymouth University, Cornwall College, and Truro and Penwith College.

'Investment has helped raise awareness and aspiration' Councillor Neil Burden

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2012 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              606 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 2, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Taking it to the next level

BYLINE: GEORGE H. NEWMAN, gnewman@tampatrib.com

SECTION: PLANT CITY; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 3280 words


Plant City High's valedictorian and salutatorian make careful college choices as
they prepare to further their education.

By GEORGE H. NEWMAN

gnewman@tampatrib.com

PLANT CITY - Choosing the right college to continue the search for knowledge was
an important decision for the Plant City High School 2010 valedictorian and
salutatorian.

Valedictorian Erika Kolakowski, 18, a decorated track and volleyball player, has
chosen Auburn University, a Southeastern Conference athletic powerhouse with
high academic standards.

Salutatorian Taylor Flumerfelt, 17, was just .02 points behind Kolakowski with a
weighted grade point average of 7.3. Flumerfelt has chosen Southeastern
University, a Christ-centered Lakeland university that integrates personal faith
and higher learning.

Kolakowski listed several reasons for choosing the Alabama university.

"Auburn has a very strong life science program, which fits perfectly with my
biomedical major," Kolakowski said. "They encourage students to expand their
horizons by studying abroad, which helped me to decide I would minor in Spanish.
The campus at Auburn is beautiful. I love the area and the people there."

Kolakowski will be attending Auburn on academic and athletic scholarship,
running for the university track team.

"Auburn caters to its students, and although it is a large public university,
you still get the small town feel. Running track for Auburn will be a great
experience that will help me connect with a diverse group of students," she
said.

Her parents are Keith and Lisa Kolakowski.

"As a dad I have always been amazed by Erika's drive and determination," Keith
Kolakowski said. "From very early on she has been ultra competitive in
everything she did. She lives by the motto 'Hard work beats talent when talent
doesn't work hard.' No one works harder than Erika. She deserves all the credit
for her amazing accomplishments."

Erika has always been an excellent student, her mother said.

"In kindergarten a friend of hers was taken out of class one day to show her
reading skills to other young students. She asked me to teach her to read so she
could do that, too."

"We read together every night until she was an excellent reader. Her ability in
other subjects is based on her ability to read and remember what she has read."

Almost as impressive as her scholastic achievement was Erika's mastery of
athletics, her mother said.

"Both Keith and I were student athletes at Gulf High School in New Port Richey,"
Lisa Kolakowski said. "He played football and ran track. I ran the 220 yard
dash, the 100 yard hurdles, did long jump and ran relays."

Erika, the youngest of three sisters, learned to swim at age 5 and then moved
through Little League softball, where she made the All-Stars, volleyball, and
then track.

"By the time Erika was in the 11th grade she was concentrating on cross country
and track," her mother said. "That was the only sport that she could do and
still keep up a very aggressive advanced placement curriculum in school."

As a beginning junior, Erika was running the 800 meters in 2:35, her mother
said. By the end of the school year her time was down to 2:21. Her best time as
a senior was at 2:148.

As a high school track star Kolakowski came in first in her specialty at the
district and regional meets, and placed third in the state finals.

"Her running and academic strength was what attracted Auburn's interest," her
mother said. "She should be a perfect fit for that school. They are academically
strong, and their coaching staff in track is excellent."

Erika said Plant City High School is a close knit school.

"The faculty makes a strong effort to connect with its students, and are very
supportive," Kolakowski said. "That is something I looked for in university
choices, and is why I chose Auburn."

Flumerfelt said her favorite subject is English, and she intends to major in
journalism at Southeastern University.

"I have enjoyed writing and English classes I have taken at Plant City High
School," she said. "I've been inspired by that experience to pursue journalism
as a career."

Flumerfelt said her favorite teacher at the school is Alan Schism, a teacher of
honors English 1 and AP (advanced placement) literature.

"Mr. Schism inspired me to not only become a better student, but also a better
person and Christian," Flumerfelt said. "My mom (Bea Kirman) has worked here (at
Plant City High) for over nine years, so I have grown up here. It's like home to
me, and I've become who I am today because of my experiences here."

Kirman is the supervisor of the high school lunchroom.

"Taylor has volunteered to help me out after school when we would cater school
system functions and meetings," Kirman said. "She knows enough about catering to
work in restaurant management. But she has other career plans. She is really a
self-starter and has been an easy child to raise. I am very fortunate to have
her as my daughter."

Flumerfelt participated in the school Civinettes club and as a council member of
Youth Alive. She was a longtime Girl Scout, gaining the bronze, silver and Gold
Award along the way.

"Both Taylor and Erika are in Girl Scout troop 176, with troop leader Mary Jane
Padgett," said Kirman, who helps out at troop meetings. "Both girls earned the
Gold Award last year. They have known each other for years."

Kirman said the families in the troop participate in camping trips and have even
been on three Caribbean cruises together. The families use proceeds from the
sale of Girl Scout cookies and candy sales to help pay the way.

"Scouting has helped Taylor and I strengthen our bond over the years," Kirman
said. "I am very proud of my daughter. She is very special."

Flumerfelt said she is looking forward to furthering her relationship with God,
as well as her education, at Southeastern University.

"As I began my search I discovered how important it was to find a school that
has an atmosphere that reflects my faith," she said. "And I enjoy the small,
private school aspect of Southeastern."

Mark Flumerfelt, Taylor's father, said that Taylor has always been very serious
minded and determined to make exceptional grades in school.

"I had to be very careful with Taylor when I talked about her grades," he said.
"I remember once a long time ago when Taylor brought home an A-minus, and I
curiously asked her what happened. It almost broke her heart. It was very
apparent that she was very sensitive about her grades."

"We are very proud of her," he said. "I'm not sure where her determination comes
from. But she has high standards and doesn't back off. Religiously she
definitely has the spirit. She wants to help others and finds strength in her
religious beliefs."

As with most honors students Erika Kolakowski has a wide and varied list of
activities.

She is a member of the National Honor Society, which she served as president.
She was a council member of Youth Alive and a member of Civinettes, Best
Buddies, Life is Good, Amnesty Club, the academic team and Mu Alpha. She played
varsity volleyball and ran cross country and track and field.

Her favorite teacher was Jereme Monette, who she said has a passion for teaching
and cares for his students. She lists her favorite subjects as biology and
chemistry.

Reporter George H. Newman can be reached at (813) 731-8161.

(CHART) Plant City High School

Valedictorian Erika Rae Kolakowski

Salutatorian Taylor Uriah Flumerfelt

Honors students

Kendall Jamison Aguilar

Kaitlyn Mackenzie Allen

Geilisa Anna Almodovar

Marissa Elise Aloyo

Alexa August Avellar

Drew Austin Balliet

Blanca Azucena Baltazar

Thomas James Banks

Kristen Elaine Bass

Zachary William Batley

Brooklyn Olivia Beauchamp

Gabrielle Jeanné Jewell Biggs

Amanda Faye Binnion

Ainsley Letheen Bowers

Derek Jonathon Burke

Blair William Butler

Amanda Danielle Byars

Johnnie Bryars Byrd

Derek Ivan Carman

Micah Layne Steven Carmony

Kaelie Marie Carter

Robert Theodore Carty

Nicholas Kevin Casey

Alma Nayelly Castillo

Rafael Mesa Castro

Christopher David Chen

Bonnie Mae Clark

Hannah Leigh Clendening

Steven Rudolph Cochran

Laura Ashley Cohen

Heather Nicole Coryell

Briana Renée Corzine

Brittany Lynn Coulter

Dustin Keith Crider

Shannon Nicole Crook

Heather Ann Curci

Dustin Lee Davis

Hillary Danielle Davis

Kara Nicole Dearhart

Jay Donald DeDon

Ashley Grace Delph

Shivani Mahesh Desai

Matthew Lynn DeVane

Yaritza Lee Diaz

Currie Elizabeth Dickerson

Haylee Nicole Dietrich

Michael Raymond Durig

Daisy Danielle Dykes

Megan Lyn Eaton

Jasiel Stephen Elliot

Jessica Lynne Elrod

Lars Joseph Emery

Emily Sciandra Evans

Brooke Elizabeth Everly

Mallorie Anne Farrell

Hanna Renae Fears

Amanda Nichol Fernandez

Karissa DeAnne Flowers

Alison Brooke Frierson

Samantha Ann Fritsch

Laura Lizet Garcia

Victoria Rene' Garren

Tiyla Chanade Garrett

Marvin Paul Gibbs Jr.

Joseph Ryan Gibson

Gabriel Gonzalez

Laura Stephanie Gonzalez

Tarrah Alexis Greene

Caleb Samuel Harper

Kaitlynn Ashley Harvester

Rebekah Mary Hatcher

Karen Elise Hawkins

Kathleen Danielle Hencke

Jonathan Edward Hendricks

Cindy Her

Oscar Joel Herrera

Brandon Eric Hostutler

Ryan Gregory Howard

Laura Michelle Hunt

Michol Spencer Hurst

Loredana Hurtado

Ivanna Yvette Ibarra

Evan Michael Johnson

Kody Alan Joiner

Kyle Wayne Joiner

Brandon Michael Kell

John Henry Kenney IV

Colby Allen Kerstetter

Mark Jamison Killebrew

Casey Shea Kirk

Connor John Kitchens

Shayla Lyrae Knight

Kelsey Ann Lamb

Nicholas DeWayne Lawhon

Cali Elizabeth Leonard

Tymothy Alan Lindsay

Brandi Renae Lindsey

Ashley Amanda Lockard

Kyle Anthony Madill

Nikita Mikhaylovich Markov

Heather Marie Martin

Brett Anthony Maxwell

Alexa Mae McElveen

Stephen Anthony McIntyre

Jenna Marie Miller

Taylor Dean Mowery

Ruben Muñoz

Danielle Marie O'Connell

Max Olivarez

Neisha Marie Ortega Valentin

Shivangi Mayur Patel

Aaron Matthew Payne

Joshua Kenneth Payne

Alexaundra Mae Perry

Trevor D. Persaud

Jessica Elizabeth Pettitt

Amanda Lee Picucci

Carrie Elizabeth Pierce

William Cory Plante

Thomas Gary Player

Kevin Michael Podsiad

Michael Sterling Poppell

Michelle Nicole Poston

Sebastian Eric Ray

Ashley Blair Riddle

Cecilia Rivera

Malcolm Rivera-Rodriguez

Ashlyn Leanna Robinson

Claudia Rodriguez

Ivette Rodriguez

Ivonne Rodriguez

Nicole Reanne Romnosky

Zane Alan Salter

Elizabeth Ann Schmidt

Crystal Ann Segovia

Zachary Davis Self

Riley William Shepherd

Patrick Thomas Shugerts

Sad Amber Silverio

John Martin Sitton

Michael Soloman Sliker

Kaylen Antonio Smith

K'Shawn Allen Smith

Noah Donovan Studsill

Christopher Redman Sullivan

Aaron Admiral Sykes

India Manya Terr

Rebekah Ella Thorne

Constance Marjorie Updike

Laura Esther Vazquez

Tung Paul Ngo Vo

Justin Tyler Ward

Anna Evelyn Werkheiser

Cory Robert Westerfield

Alyshia Michelle Wiggins

Megan Nicole Willaford

Amanda Megan Wilson

James Gary Winter

Kasey Lauren Woods

Tyler McKenzie Wyatt

Remaining graduates

Naylea Nallely Aguilar

Diana Aguirre

Francesca Alvarez

Jonathan Alvarez

Christopher James Amituanai

Kayla Marie Anderson

Patricia Alexis Anderson

Maddisue Ann Andreu

Jose Arreguin

ShaQueena M. Arthur

Cassidy Nicole Ashworth

Jesús Adrián Avalos

Diana Alejandra Avendano

Emily Lourdes Ayala

Bobby Ray Bailey

Jushua Steven Bartlett

Hayley Margaret Battaglia

Michael Allan Beekman

Jonathan Shaquille Belk

Samantha Danielle Bell

James Lorne Belles

Joseph Tyler Bertomeu

Gordon Exume Bertrand

Raheem Adonis Billington

Matthew Blake

Jared Anderson Bloodworth

Gina Marie Bolduc

Derrick M. Bonds

Christopher Mark Bowmer

Brittany Nicole Bradford

Vivian Elizabeth Bramlett

Jonathan Alexander Bridges

Leticia Brito

Cara Lynn Browning

Kailey Alexandra Browning

Alexander Nicholas Bruce

Jessica Amelia Bullard

Dustin Gage Burchfield

Yesenia Bustamante

Yarib Haziel Cabrera

Ronnie Daniel Camilo

Monica Cantu

Amber Ann Carapezza

John Matthew Carlisle

Ceferino Carranza

Mollie Mariah Carroll

Taylor Rae Case

Fidel Castillo Jr.

Terri Nicole Causey

Yasmin Ceballos

Tara Abigail Chappell

Shakea Shanta Charles

Leeana Alexis Chavez

Manuel Chavez

Vanessa Chavez

Rachel Nicole Clark

Ryan Edward Clement

Amber Joann Cobb

Kristopher Tyler Cobb

Edith Nora Cochran

Clynesia On'nay Coffee

Ja'Mel Tyrise Le'Juan Coffee

Randall James Coggins

Jose Antonio Colon

Bryan David Conklin

Joshua David Conover

Alma Yadira Contreras

Israel DeJesus Contreras

Jennifer Diane Cope

Samantha Danielle Corbiere

Shekia Mariah Cotton

Janelle Marcia-Lee Coufal

Golden La'Shone Cox

Steven Andrew Craft

Marquisa Lashaun Crayton

Willie Jerome Crenshaw III

Peyton Rae Cribbs

DaQuesta Shantily Racquel Croker

Megan Elizabeth Culver

Mireya Daniel

Robin Daniel Dannison

Christopher Mark Davidson

Christopher Shawn Davis

Danuel Wayne Davis

Ebony Shemier Davis

Thomas Clinton Davis

Victoria Dawn Davis

Albert ~ del Valle III

Jorge Alberto DeLaGarza

Edgar Delgado

Ciara Elizabeth DeVane

Melissa Marie Devane

Amanda Dawn Devlin

Jodie Allison DeWeese

Jordan Ann DeWeese

Cole Dean Dickson

Brianna Lee Dilts

Amberlyn Joy Dodd

Brooke Kristina Dodson

Alrico Drone

Anthony Michael Duval

Christian Richard Earls

Chelsie Lyn Earnhart

Ian Todd Edmunds

Ana Laura Espinosa

Roberto Espinoza

Breanna Marie Faught

Amy L. Fette

Willie Alexander Fluellen

Ashley Lynn Foret

Jade Alexis Forte

Ge'Hari Que'Sean Franklin

Alicia Kay Fullenkamp

Alex Douglas Fuller

Drake Emerson Futch

Samuel Gamez

Trinidad Guadalupe Garcia

Heralit Garcia-Segura

Kristen Danielle Garren

Lindcy Nicole Garrett

Alyssa Christina Gay

Sean Justin Gentry

Chelsea Denise Gifford

Juan Martin Godinez

Karen Sarai Godinez

Keila Yoshabell Gomes

Luis Enrique Gomez

Diana ~ Gonzalez

Marisa Allison Gonzalez

Rebecca Nora Gonzalez

Mackenzie Jeanmarie Gould

Amber Raye Grabau

Cameron Jacob Gradillas

Chesney Elise Graham

Enedina Grava

Hilary Ann Gray

Dante' Lamar Green

Austin Jacob Gress

Zachary Robert Grieser

Corey Edward Griffin

Joshua Sage Griffin

Lauren Rachel Guerrero

Noralba Guevara

Sebastian Mitchell Gustat

Tashawna Lynnette Guzman

Gabriel Louis Haas

Trae Austin Hackett

Stephen Scott Haines

Mohammed Hasan Hajaz

Alicia Marie Hall

Jonathan Nathaniel Hall

Joshua Hall

Jeremiah Hallback III

Terance Lee Handley

Sharod Torrean Jamel Hardnett

Cortez Jabbar Hargrett

Shivani Sanjana Haripal

Charles Caleb Harmon

Michael Allen Harris

Brandi Nicole Hart

Rusty Allen Harvill

Wesley Alan Harville

Amanda Michele Hash

William Lewis Hawkins

Courtney Dawn Hayes

Keyshell Da'shay Hayes

Charles Brandon Hearn

Andrew Charles Heckman

Kaeleigh Dallas Hencke

Chelsea Celeste Henderson

Mary Kathleen Hendricks

Ryan Daniel Hepler

Jessie ~ Heredia

Jose Agustin Heredia

Leslie Hernandez

Ramon Hernandez

Oscar Herrada

Ricky Paul Herring

Leah Michelle Hester

Danielle Renee Hile

Nicholas Ryan Hile

Ashley Tatiana Hiley

Yasmeen S. Honors

Alton Wendell Honors II

Shirelle Nikita Hope

Sarah Marie Hopkins

Michael Sigler Horak

Alexus Ya'Jonique Howell

Amanda Lacey Hoyle

Devon Arness Hunt

Michael Rashad Hunter

Andrew Charles Hurlburt

Ikeema Mercedes Isaac

Damon Jamar Jackson

Taylor Ann Jackson

Julia Nicole Jacobson

Danelle Ashley James

Jamal C. James

Monica La'chelle James

Jake Cabot Jent

Rey Eric Jijon

Biridiana Jimenez

Christina Rose Johnigean

Courtney Michelle Johns

James Matthew Johnson

Sean Charles Jones

Kayla Fay Jordan

Leonda D. Joyce

Orthneil DeJuan Kelley

Amanda Mae Kephart

Melissa Ann Kidd

Salina Thavery Kim

Michelle D. King

Karah Leis Kinsinger

Darrion Ornett Kirnes

Amari Briana Kiser-Clites

Kayla Danielle Knapp

Andre Terrell Knighten

Joshua David LaGrone

Alex Lamadieu

Anna Maria Lara

Juana Margarita Larin Martinez

Larry Leon Larson

Jason Tyler Lawrence

Jared Casey Lee

LaTamara Katherine Lewis

Jonathan Robert Libby

Michael Arthur Libby

Brittany Michelle Lindsey

Jonathon Wade Livingston

Le'Sean Amaad Llewellyn

Lawrence L. Lloyd Jr.

Reynaldo Longoria

Ana Cecilia Lopez

German Lopez

Sabrina Lisette Lopez

George Nicholas Lott

Durrel Swarez Lowe

Christopher Robert Lowery

Eliseo Lozano

Celene Lozoya

Dominic Taylor Maddie

Joshua Lincoln Majors

Christina Jane Martin

Rachel Lynn Martin

Amber Seless Masters

Charles Thomas Mayes

Emily M. McArter

Elizabeth Kile McConnell

Justin Gregory McDonald

Tiffany Ann McDonald

William Edward McGaha

Christina Lee McHenry

Kalisha Nicole McKay

Amanda Ann McMeekin

Javier Medina

Mary Ann Mellott

Victor Javier Merced

Sean Michael Merrin

Mitchell Franklin Messer III

Bradley Corbiere Meyer

Lindsay Scott Milburn

Jeremy Morgan Miller

Caitlyn Maryella Mindedahl

Jose Leonardo Mojica

Lucas Daniel Mojica

Thomas Craig Monroe

Esgar Montelongo

Denisse Morales

Tyree Davon Morris

Amber Nicole Morrison

Ramil Lashad Mosley

Anna Marie Mott

Eva Maria Muñoz

Juan Carlos Muratalla

Megan Michelle Murphy

Patrick Royce Murphy

Clint R. Musgrove

Alyssa Ann Napolitano

Sydney Kristina Nicholas

Estefania Ocegueda

Chelsea LeeAnn Odom

Lindsey Martina Olds

Emmanuel Oliver

Morgan Elizabeth Oliver

Samantha Natasha Oliver

Marco Antonio Ortiz

Stephanie Marie Ortiz

Jessica Lyn O'Steen

Javier Enrique Oyola

Justin Allen Padgett

Bradley Scott Palumbo

Lacey Raye Park

Kyle Edwin Parker

Dylan Edward Parks

Sean D. Patisaul

Nicole Kelly Patrick

Vincent Ryan Penichet

Veronica Aracely Perez

James Michael Perry

Ashley Nicole Pettit

Diego M. Pineda

Tia Lauren Pittman

Brandon Alan Polk

Stacey ~ Ponce

Imari Danielle Porter

Derek Ellis Powers

Nicholas James Presley

Brittany Lynn Prince

Olivia Terese Proehl

Justin Jevone Pugh

Adam Grant Quagliani

Fred Quijandria

Antonio Ramirez

Martin Ramirez

Nelson Oriel Ramirez

Kaliep Antonio Reddick

Kelsey Leeann Noel Reed

Brittany Grace Reid

Dakota Laura Reid

Dakota James Renner

Christina Reyes

Esmeralda Reyes

Ricardo Reyes Jr.

Andrew Lee Reyna

Adam C. Riber

Marcos A. Rios

Marlee Christina Rios

Alicia Rivera

Devon Christopher Earl Rivera

Dawayne Jamal Robinson

LaQuan Dumar Robinson

Edgar Rodriguez

Jeannie Rodriguez

Jessie Joanne Rodriguez

Milena Caridad Rodriguez

Stephanie Rodriguez

Yodaniz Krishnette Rodriguez

Chelsea Jane Rogers

Alfredo Esteban Rojas

Michael A. Roman

Arnol Rosales

Darlene Alicia Rosales

Emma Laura Rosales

Jane Marlene Rosales

Raul ~ Rosendo

Kelly Inez Rosero

Stevie Ann Roynon

Daniel Alejandro Ruiz

Rodrigo Ruiz

Jennifer Salazar

Dehuel Sanchez

Jose Luis Sanchez

Rosa Marlene Sanchez-Perez

Michelle Evelyn Sanders

Genesis ~ Sandoval

Richard Allen Sapp Jr.

Kevin Scott Sarazin Jr.

Dustin Leigh Schiff

Andrew Schwochert

Zachary Alan Sellers

Philip Michael Sessa

Anthony Paul Sgro

Aisha Monique Sharrieff

Elexus Lolisha Shaw

Daniel Orion Shea

Jarvis Jamal Sherman

LeiAnn Marie Shover

Spencer Davis Sikes

Ricardo Simon

Kenneth Harold Simpkins

Kimberly Hope Singletary

Michael Seger Singletary

Robert Neil Skolnick

Ashley Joan Smyth

John Phillip Souza

Holly Melissa Spence

Brandon Wayne Stallard

Megan Elizabeth Stasiak

Paul E. Stevens

Aaron Matthew Street

Joshua Allen Street

Joshua Orion Strickland

Sonya Renea Sutorus

Jessica Diane Swinford

David Joseph Teneyck Jr.

John Lo Thao

Cory Paul Thayer

Blake William Thomas

Demario Deonte Thomas

Dallas Aaron Thompson

Brandy Nicole Thorpe

Joshua Eric Tindel

Carlos Alfredo Torres

Jose Adrian Torres

Jonathan Trejo

Arley Trevino

Camerin Terese-Lee Trice

Joshua Ayn Upthegrove

Kimberlyn Vazquez

Dustin Harley Vela

Jackson Jen Kit Vooi

Jeremy Vue

Ashley Nicole Wade

Courtney Anne Wainoris

Joel Jeffrey Waller

Marci Colette Waller

Terica Angelica Ward

Ian Zachary Wasden

Louis Washington Jr.

Bennie Lee Wells

Evan Riley Wetterstroem

Samantha Lynn White

Kelley Nicole Whitehead

Amber Lynn Willhite

Bryan Charles Williams

Debrela I. Williams

Kimberly Alice Sykes Williams

Tye Elizabeth Williams

Jordan Blaike Wilson

Nicole Norene Wilson

Kailee Nicole Wixon

Timothy Garrett Wyatt

Tzor Xiong

Camille Young

Hannah Rachel Young

Rochelle Ashley Young

Shaylyn Renae Young

Raul Zamarripa III

Photo Credit: Staff photos by GEORGE H. NEWMAN

Photo: Plant City High seniors Nicholas Presley and Brandi Lindsey show off
their senior class rings. There are 550 Plant City High seniors graduating this
year.

Photo: Eighty-five seniors will graduate from Simmons Career Center today. Cody
Swanson and Kimberly Speller display the 2010 class rings.

Photo: Durant High School students chose these styles. Durant will graduate 530
seniors this year.

Photo: Valedictorian Erika Kolakowski, left, a track and volleyball player, has
chosen Auburn University. Salutatorian Taylor Flumerfelt will major in
journalism at Southeastern University.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                              607 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             June 25, 2016 Saturday

Texas: House Committee Advances Higher Education Bills

LENGTH: 584  words

DATELINE: New York



 Austin: JD Supra Business Advisor, The State of Texas has issued the following
news release:



    As much of the attention in Washington this week was concentrated on the
sit-in by House Democrats over gun control legislation, the House Committee on
Education and the Workforce on June 22 approved by voice vote five bipartisan
bills aimed at assisting students in choosing the right college or university,
making the financial aid process fairer and more transparent, and supporting
higher education institutions that serve minority students.





 H.R. 5528, the Simplifying the Application for Student Aid Act, intends to
implement reforms to the federal student aid process by ensuring that the Free
Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) continues to be available to future
students, simplifying the FAFSA for student aid applicants, and providing more
time for student aid administrators to verify the income of those applying for
financial aid. H.R. 5528 was introduced by Reps. Joe Heck (R-NV), Phil Roe
(R-TN), Jared Polis (D-CO), and Mark Pocan (D-WI).



 H.R. 5529, the Accessing Higher Education Opportunities Act, aims to help
students who attend Hispanic-Serving Institutions to access graduate-level and
doctoral degree programs in health care. The bill also offers students attending
secondary school the opportunity to earn college credits in dual enrollment
programs. H.R. 5529 was introduced by Reps. Joe Heck (R-NV), Ruben Hinojosa
(D-TX), and Raul Ruiz (D-CA).



 H.R. 5530, the HBCU Capital Financing Improvement Act, is designed to assist
Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) in understanding and
accessing the resources available to them through the HBCU Capital Financing
Program, which offers low-cost capital to finance improvements to campus
infrastructure. H.R. 5530 was introduced by Reps. Alma Adams (D-NC) and Bradley
Byrne (R-AL).



 H.R. 3178, the Strengthening Transparency in Higher Education Act, intends to
ensure that students have access to straightforward and useful college data when
choosing a college or university, to improve coordination among federal agencies
on higher education data, and to make higher education data beneficial not only
to traditional first-time students but also to non-traditional students who are
often older part-time students with families and jobs. H.R. 3178 was introduced
by Reps. Virginia Foxx (R-NC), Luke Messer (R-IN), and Gregorio Sablan (D-MP).



 H.R. 3179, the Empowering Students Through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act,
promotes financial literacy through enhanced counseling for federal financial
aid recipients. The bill improves upon counseling offered to student loan
recipients, and requires annual counseling for students receiving Pell Grants.
The bill also intends to help higher education institutions by establishing a
consumer-tested, online counseling tool that would ease the burden in providing
financial counseling to students. H.R. 3179 was introduced by Reps. Brett
Guthrie (R-KY) and Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR).



 The legislative calendar is increasingly tight for the remainder of 2016. These
five bills could be taken up by the full House in this Congress, but it is
unlikely that they will be considered by the Senate. If they do not become law
this year, they will help to frame the discussion for reauthorization of the
Higher Education Act (HEA) in the upcoming 115th Congress.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              608 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                             May 28, 2011 Saturday

Building new generation of family-first graduates

SECTION: Pg. 40

LENGTH: 271  words


DID you go to university? About half of USC's undergraduate population are the
first in their family to attend uni. To show local families what's available on
their doorstep, USC holds free public events such as next Wednesday's Parent
Information Evening on June 1.

Held in Building C from 6pm to 8pm, the night aims to demystify the university
experience for parents of students in Years 10 to 12.

Bookings are essential and can be made on 5456 5000.

It's a popular event and highly valued, especially by parents who have never
studied for a degree or set foot on the 100-hectare campus here at Sippy Downs.

Many parents will arrive at 5pm to tour the campus so they can see the
facilities first-hand and discuss what the future holds for their high school
children.

One of the biggest decisions for a high school student is choosing what to study
from the undergraduate programs on offer. They may want to follow a passion for
business or information technology; communication or design; education; health;
humanities or social sciences; science or engineering. The information evening
will help with this decision-making.

USC staff will give parents advice on how to help their children prepare for
tertiary study. That means choosing appropriate senior school subjects, learning
about OP scores and other pathways to university, and planning careers. All the
practical details on attending USC, such as costs and financial support, will be
discussed.

If you want to know more about USC, visit our website www.usc.edu.au

Professor Greg Hill is Vice-Chancellor and President at the University of the
Sunshine Coast.

ON CAMPUS

Greg Hill

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              609 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       March 17, 2013 Sunday 6:30 AM EST

American College of Physicians: Internal Medicine Residency Match Results
Encouraging for Adults Needing Primary Care

LENGTH: 345  words


New Delhi, March 17 -- The number of U.S. senior medical students choosing
categorical internal medicine residencies increased for the fourth consecutive
year. According to the 2013 National Resident Matching Program, 3,135 U.S.
medical school seniors matched for residency training in internal medicine, a
6.6 percent increase compared to 2012, when 2,941 matched in internal medicine.



The report also showed a continued increase of U.S. medical graduates who
matched in Internal Medicine-Primary Care (200 in 2013, 186 in 2012, and 166 in
2011) and in Med-Peds (increased to 312 in 2013, up from 276 in 2012).

"We are pleased that more U.S. medical students are choosing internal medicine
residencies and hope the upward trend continues," said Steven Weinberger, MD,
FACP, executive vice president and CEO, American College of Physicians (ACP),
the nation's largest medical specialty organization. "However, ACP remains
concerned about the need to increase the nation's general internal medicine
physician workforce to meet the needs of an aging population requiring care for
chronic and complex illnesses and the increased number of individuals who will
be receiving coverage through the Affordable Care Act."

The 2013 match for internal medicine is still well below the 3,884 U.S. medical
school graduates that chose internal medicine residency programs in 1985.

Categorical internal medicine enrollment numbers decreased from 2007 to 2009
(2,680 in 2007; 2,660 in 2008; and 2,632 in 2009) before increasing in 2010
(2,772) and 2011 (2,940). The great majority of current internal medicine
residents will ultimately enter a subspecialty of internal medicine, such as
cardiology or gastroenterology. Only about 20 to 25 percent of internal medicine
residents eventually choose to specialize in general internal medicine, compared
with 54 percent in 1998.

Dr. Weinberger also cited problematic payment models and the exorbitant cost of
medical education with the resulting financial burden on medical students and
residents as barriers to a career in general internal medicine.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              610 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          September 28, 2006, Thursday
                              North Wales Edition

Developing their potential

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 568 words


THE 2,400 independent schools operating in the UK are free of local or central
government control. These schools, which educate seven per cent of the total
school population, are sometimes referred to as private (a misnomer, as most in
the UK are not privately owned), or fee-paying schools.

Most independent schools have a board of governors responsible for the direction
of the school, and a bursar, who is responsible for the financial side of school
management.

The Head, although responsible to the governors, is able to appoint staff, admit
pupils and make decisions on a day-to-day basis.

There are many options for parents contemplating sending their children to an
independent school. These include day schools, boarding schools, and schools
with a mixture of both day pupils and boarders. Some schools are single-sex,
others coeducational.

More and more parents are choosing the independent route for their child's
education. According to the Independent Schools Council (ISC), four out of ten
independent school pupils are 'first time buyers'' that is, they come from
families where neither parent attended an independent school.

So why is this? The trend is largely due to the fact that independent schools
focus on developing the full potential of each student, whatever their natural
aptitude. It is also well documented that most independent schools have smaller
classes than state schools - giving teachers more time to devote to individuals.

Surveys carried out by Market and Opinion Research International (MORI) for the
ISC revealed the main reasons given by parents for choosing an independent
school include small classes with individual attention, high standards of
education and examination results, good discipline, encouragement of a
responsible attitude to school work, development of social responsibility, and
extra-curricular activities.

83% of 15 year-olds at independent schools gain five GCSEs at grades A-C,
compared with 49% of maintained school pupils. In addition, on average,
independent school candidates achieve 350 University and College Admissions
Service (UCAS) points at A-level, compared with a state school average of 263
points.

This equates to approximately A-level grades of ABC, plus an additional B grade
at AS-level, for independent school candidates.

A staggering nine out of ten independent school A-level leavers go on to higher
education degree courses. Naturally, this gives them a head start in the career
stakes, and quality of life.

There are different types of independent school available, tailor-made to your
child's age. These are:

All-through schools, which take pupils from as young as two, to 18. Often pupils
are in separate schools, but under the same management.

Pre-preparatory (ages two to seven)' typically referred to as nursery schools or
kindergartens, and often attached to junior schools, these schools equate to
nursery and infants stages in local authority schools.

Junior schools (ages seven to 11-plus, or 13). Frequently referred to as 'prep'
schools, they offer a full range of subjects, and often lead on to admission to
senior schools.

Senior schools (ages 11 to 18).

Sixth form (age 16-plus). Many senior schools admit students at 16-plus for
two-year AS/A2 courses, the International Baccalaureate, vocational courses, or
GCSE retakes.

For more information on independent schools and what they can do for your child,
visit www.isc.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: More and more parents are choosing the independent route for their
child's education

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              611 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2017 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                 November 2017

                             Texas College Planning

                         1460 E Whitestone Blvd Ste 280
                             Cedar Park,  TX 78613
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (512) 528-5632
URL: www.texascollegeplanning.com

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
EMPLOYEES: 5

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   Texas College Planning is an independent consulting firm located in central
Texas. We understand that college planning isn't about choosing the best
college. It's about choosing the best college experience. This process is full
of difficult questions and potentially expensive pitfalls. We know there are
many good-match colleges for every student, and we'll design an individualized
college action plan to ensure that both parent and student make educationally
sound choices.  We realize that the process of applying to colleges and
universities, not to mention paying for it, can be incredibly costly and
stressful for parents and students alike. Guided by our independent educational
consultant, the college admissions process starts with who the student is,
rather than their test scores and GPA. To advise the student on a college where
they will be challenged but not overwhelmed, we focus first on the student's
personality, educational needs and goals, and personal and professional
aspirations, followed by an assessment of the student's academic record and
extracurricular activities. Based upon all of these factors and knowledge of
different colleges, our consultant narrows the expanse of choices to enable the
student to apply to the best-fit schools.  While many people are aware of
conventional financial aid options, Texas College Planning helps our families
evaluate monetary, retirement, and merit-based strategies, as well as other
methods to assist in paying for their child's ed

* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *

REVENUE: USD 1,000,000

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2017


                              612 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Cambridge Evening News

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday

Final treat for director of music festival

LENGTH: 304 words


The Aronowitz Ensemble    CAMBRIDGE Music Festival reaches its climax this
weekend, with several concerts today, and the finale tomorrow.This lunchtime
Emmanuel United Reformed Church is the venue for a piano recital by Mateusz
Borowiak at 1.10pm. Then at 7.30pm, St Catharines College will stage a specially
written opera celebrating Cambridge Universitys 800th anniversary.

Taking part will be members of St Catharines Music Society and musicians from
Netherhall School.Fans of Mahler can flock to Ely Cathedral at 7.30pm to enjoy
what promises to be a marvellous performance of his Symphony No 8. Like
Cambridge University, the cathedral is celebrating an anniversary, its 900th,
and a talented cast of soloists has been assembled, together with choirs from
Cambridge colleges and Sawston Village College, Cambridge University Musical
Society Chorus and Orchestra, and the universitys Chamber Orchestra.The Solstice
String Quartet will deliver a varied programme, featuring Haydn, Schumann and
Mendelssohn, at Linton Village College at 7.30pm. The concert is a special
promotion with Linton Music Society, which runs an annual series of concerts in
the village.Tomorrows final event, at West Road at 3pm, features the Aronowitz
Ensemble, with tenor Andrew Kennedy, featuring music by Mozart, Schubert, Dvorak
and Vaughan Williams.Festival director Gillian Perkins, who steps down from the
job after this concert, said: In choosing what to have for a final event, I
decided that the thing I have enjoyed the most during all the festivals I have
put together has been those occasions when younger musicians perform. So Ive
asked seven young performers to give this special concert, choosing music that I
love to listen to.Details of all this weekends events are available on the
festival website at www.cammusic.co.uk.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CambridgeNews


                    Copyright 2009 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              613 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                The Citizens' Voice (Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              May 9, 2017 Tuesday

More grads choosing to leave region after college

BYLINE: Bill Wellock, The Citizens' Voice, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 647 words


May 09--WILKES-BARRE -- Hundreds of students graduate from the colleges of
Northeast Pennsylvania every year.

For some, moving on is figurative. They're out of college but staying in the
area as they begin careers.

For others, it's literal. The end of their time in school means the end of their
time living in the region.

Wilkes University students Taylor Ryan and Seth Kunkel are two of the college
graduates moving on with their lives this spring.

Ryan plans to head back to her family's home in Virginia while she decides on a
job. Kunkel is staying in the area as he begins a career with engineering firm
Borton-Lawson.

The Institute for Public Policy and Economic Development studies the plans of
seniors graduating from local colleges and universities. About 30 percent of
graduating college seniors from the past three years said they're planning to
stay in Northeast Pennsylvania after college. Numbers change from year to year:
In 2015, about 27 percent of new college graduates said they planned to stay in
the area; in 2016, about 32 percent said they planned to stay; and in 2017,
about 28 percent said they planned to stay.

Staying here

Students who studied technology, trades and education were most likely to say
they planned to stay.

For Kunkel, location was one thing he considered when picking a school, but it
wasn't especially high on his list of priorities as a college senior.

That's changed now that he begins a career.

"It was closer to the top then because of settling down and being near my
family," he said.

He's from Hamburg, which is about 80 minutes away from Wilkes-Barre.

"Instead of living in California and flying all the way back, an hour-and-a-half
drive is much better than a four-hour, five-hour plane ride," he said.

His internship with Borton-Lawson is one reason he's staying local. He started
there during his junior year and has spent the last year-and-a-half with the
firm. He liked working there and they liked his work. Soon after he graduates,
he'll take his mechanical engineering degree to the firm as he begins his
career.

Moving away

Pennsylvania attracts a good deal of students from outside the state seeking
higher education. Once college is over, many of them leave again.

According to the Institute's survey, business and humanities majors were most
likely to say they planned to leave the area.

Students often made their plans based on their career prospects. Many said job
and salary opportunities were better elsewhere. Others said they wanted to live
near a larger urban area or return to their hometowns.

Carol Boasck, the director of Wilkes' Career Services center, said she sees a
trend of students who are concerned about finances stay where the cost of living
is low or move with family or friends to share costs.

Ryan, who majored in communications, is one of those students.

She plans to return to Fredericksburg, Virginia, to save money by living with
family as she decides on a job in the communications industry.

She eventually wants to move to the Philadelphia area, where she worked for an
internship during college. She likes the area and sees more opportunity for her
career there.

Going to college hours from home and knowing no one upon arrival has given her
confidence to head anywhere for work.

"If the right job came along, and it was definitely something I wanted to do, I
would go anywhere. I'm not super connected to any location. It's just that now,
ideally, when I look at the industry I want to go into and what I want to do, I
just think that (Philadelphia) is the prime location I want to end up in, in a
couple years. But I'm not like that's where I have to go, I have to be there,"
she said.

Contact the writer:

bwellock@citizensvoice.com

570-821-2051, @CVBillW

___ (c)2017 The Citizens' Voice (Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) Visit The Citizens' Voice
(Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) at citizensvoice.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170509-YC-More-grads-choosing-to-leave-region-after-college
-0509-20170509

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YC


                       Copyright 2017 The Citizens' Voice


                              614 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Windsor Star (Ontario)

                           December 26, 2009 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Good reads for the holidays recommending

BYLINE: Thomas Sowell, Special to The Windsor Star

SECTION: EDITORIAL/OPINION; Thomas Sowell; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 741  words


One way to reduce the wear and tear this time of the year is to give books as
presents. Books can be matched to the person who receives them without having to
know that person's measurements.

Dick Morris' new book, Catastrophe, is an education in itself, on politics, on
economics and on foreign policy. It is a strong antidote to the pious rhetoric
and spin that come out of Washington and the media. Partly, this is because Dick
Morris was once a Beltway insider -- an adviser to president Bill Clinton -- who
knows first-hand the ugly realities behind the pretty words that politicians use
and that much of the media repeat.

Morris's argument in Catastrophe -- whose title tells us where he sees us headed
-- is backed up by numerous hard facts and is supported by an understanding of
history and economics. Most of all, it is supported by an understanding of
politics as it is, rather than the way it is depicted by politicians and the
media.

Dick Morris can also cut through a blizzard of political spin with a few plain
words. In describing Barack Obama's economic policies, Morris says simply:
"Curing the recession was not his end; it was his means to the end. The end was
bigger government."

Obama's actions often make no sense if you believe Obama's words, but they do
make sense if you follow Dick Morris' analysis.

A revised edition of Angelo Codevilla's classic book, The Character of Nations,
has been published this year, and it too is an education in itself. The
Character of Nations is less focused on immediate domestic political issues --
though it does analyze the contrasting responses of the intelligentsia to Sarah
Palin and Barack Obama -- but it is focused more on the underlying cultural
developments that affect how nations work -- or don't work.

The very title of The Character of Nations, is a challenge to the prevailing
ideology that denies or downplays underlying differences among individuals,
groups and nations.

There are many examples of these differences. For example, Professor Codevilla
says, "While it is unimaginable to do business in China without paying bribes,
to offer one in Japan is the greatest faux pas."

He sees the things that are valued differently in different cultures as the key
to everything from economic progress to personal freedom. But, these values are
not set in stone -- which means that countries which currently benefit from a
given set of values can lose those benefits when those values get lost.

Codevilla says, "The reason why inhabitants of the First World should keep the
Third World in mind is that habits prevalent in the countries that became known
as the Third World are a set of human possibilities that any people anywhere can
adopt at any time. As Argentina showed in the twentieth century, falling from
the First World to the Third can be easy and quick."

Another revised and very valuable book is, Choosing the Right College, published
by the Intercollegiate Studies Institute. This latest edition is once again by
far the best college guide in America. Like many of us, it has put on weight
over the years and is now 1,084 pages long but its weight is all muscle.

First of all, Choosing the Right College, asks the right question -- What is the
right college for you, not what is the "best" college by some formula for
ranking colleges and universities.

In addition to a very thorough examination of the academic realities at these
institutions, it goes into the social atmosphere, which can make or break the
whole college experience in terms of what is right for a particular student.

College is, after all, not just a school but a home, for four long years --
usually for people who are living away from home for the first time in their
lives.

Being in the wrong place, in terms of neighbours and atmosphere, can ruin the
academic advantages of even the best institution. This book helps match
particular students with particular places, which is what is crucial.

My own books published this year include, The Housing Boom and Bust, which made
the New York Times bestseller list.

Another book of mine this year was the revised and enlarged edition of Applied
Economics, which has a long chapter on the economics of medical care, including
the experience of other countries that have gone down the road to government
control of medicine. Their experience should be a warning to us all.

Thomas Sowell is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University,
Stanford, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2009 Windsor Star, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              615 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                            March 16, 2016 Wednesday
                              CourierMail3 Edition

Parents urged to not treat sick kids

BYLINE: Sue Dunlevy National Health Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 383  words


KIDS with ear infections will be refused antibiotics and parents will be urged
to stop using paracetamol or ibuprofen to reduce a fever under a crackdown on
unnecessary medical treatment.

Fourteen prestigious medical colleges have reviewed 61 of the most commonly
sought treatments - and the results will shock many.

The review identified areas of waste as part of the NPS Choosing Wisely campaign
and aims to rein in health costs and improve medical practice.

Among the findings is a recommendation against the routine use of antibiotics to
treat children aged 2-12 battling an ear infection.

"Regardless of whether one or both eardrums are red or bulging, antibiotics do
not reduce pain at 24 hours," the Royal Australian College of General
Practitioners says.

Instead, parents should use paracetamol or ibuprofen to control the pain.
Antibiotics should only be given if the child has a fever, is vomiting or
lethargic, says the president of the Royal Australian College of General
Practitioners Dr Frank Jones.

The campaign also urges parents not to give paracetamol or ibuprofen to their
kids to bring down their temperature.

"The benefits of fever in slowing the growth and replication of bacteria and
viruses are well documented," says the Australian College of Nursing.

Medicine should only be used to reduce fever if the child is uncomfortable or
distressed, the college says.

The campaign also calls for the prescribing of antibiotics to infants with a
fever to stop because it is "low value" and "can be dangerous, in delaying
presentation to hospital by inappropriately reassuring patients".

One in 14 kids have side effects from antibiotics and their overuse is fuelling
the rise of antibiotic-resistant infections.

Palliative care rather than expensive intensive care solutions should be used as
people come to the end of their life, the review found.

People near the end of their life should be taken off medications that are used
to prevent disease and people with dementia should not be fed through tubes.

Australian Medical Association president Professor Brian Owler said the Choosing
Wisely campaign acknowledged the role of doctors as stewards of the health
system."We've looked at the evidence and come up with recommendations that
certain practices are not providing the best value," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Courier-Mail


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              616 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           February 9, 2012 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

Earn as you learn courses offer viable opportunities

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 398 words


Midland-based national housing and care provider Sanctuary Group says it has
seen an increase in young people choosing to become an apprentice rather than
going to university.

The Worcester organisation had 85 apprentices in 2010, rising to 187 in 2011 - a
significant increase of 120 per cent, highlighting the growing popularity of the
earn-as-you-learn route during National Apprenticeship Week.

The upward trend at Sanctuary's award-winning apprenticeship scheme comes amid
an 8.7 per cent drop in university applicants last year, reported by university
admissions service UCAS.

Sanctuary apprentices Tom Smith, Jeya Greenfield and Sarah Wall, were studying
for A-levels or equivalent qualifications when they decided to apply for an
apprenticeship with Sanctuary rather than choosing to go to university.

Based at Sanctuary's Worcester office, they are currently studying for level 3
diplomas in business administration.

Ms Wall, a housing apprentice with Sanctuary's energy efficiency team, said: "I
had actually already been offered a place at university to study criminology and
I decided not to take up the offer.

"So for me, an apprenticeship was not a second choice, but something I really
wanted to do. When I have completed my apprenticeship it would be fantastic to
stay with Sanctuary and I would love to work in a role such as a housing officer
where I can get out and about and meet the people."

Me Smith, a procurement apprentice, added: "My apprenticeship has really taken
off and is the full focus of my attention. My school was very fixed on
university being my next step, but I didn't think it was for me. I am really
enjoying my Sanctuary apprenticeship and I am building up practical experience
for a future career."

Ms Greenfield, an apprentice with the housing maintenance team, added: "It was
tough deciding against going to university, but I am very comfortable with the
choice I made to complete an apprenticeship at Sanctuary. I knew that an
opportunity like this wouldn't wait.

David Bennett, Sanctuary Group chief executive, said: "Our apprenticeship scheme
has gone from strength to strength and seems to be an increasingly popular route
among young people today.

"We really value the energy and enthusiasm of our apprentices and the difference
they make to our business."

Inside today's Post: 16-page special on apprenticeships in the region

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: bp


               Copyright 2012 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              617 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                 April 14, 2003

Pupils get a head start in choosing a career;

SECTION:  Pg. 41

LENGTH: 218 words


A NORTH Belfast college has been pioneering the introduction of construction
training back into the classroom - and enjoying renewed enthusiasm for learning
among its boys.

Two large technology rooms at St Gabriel's College have been converted for
practical training in bricklaying, joinery, tiling and painting to give pupils a
head start in choosing a career.

The two-year pilot programme, running alongside traditional GCSEs, also offers a
work placement with local employers next year.

Catherine McGeady of the Construction Industry Training Board said it had been
an "amazing success", thanks to staff dedication and student effort.

"The school has proactively recognised a niche within current curriculum
provision, bringing practical construction training back to the classroom
environment, " she said.

"The innovative nature of the programme particularly recognises the needs of
young people and industry, allowing students to sample craft areas at a much
earlier stage, while fully integrating it within mainstream provision.

"The end result is that students leave school much more informed about their
career options, equipped with the essential skills required to kick-start their
apprenticeship training, all of which construction employers view very
positively."

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: nPRACTICAL TRAINING: St Gabriel's College student Tomas Donnelly
carries out joinery work under the watchful eye of tutor Paul Jonston as part of
the school's construction programme PICTURE: Bill Smyth

                     Copyright 2003 The Irish News Limited


                              618 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Irish Post

                                January 9, 2008

College places filled by Celtic Tiger cubs

SECTION: IRISH NEWS

LENGTH: 436 words


AS THE deadline for applications

to British universities looms this

week a large number of Irish students

are continuing to apply to

colleges here for their third-level

education.

Figures released have shown that

although successful applications to

British colleges decreased slightly in

2007, there were still thousands of

Irish students choosing to move

abroad.

Last year 2,616 students from the

Republic accepted offers from British

universities, a decrease of 2.3 per cent

on the 2,678 places accepted in 2006.

While British universities can be

expensive for students due to tuition

fees, a large number of students move

abroad to enroll in courses that are

not taught in Irish universities.

Figures show that Irish students are

more likely to accept an offer of a

place in an Irish university if they

have a choice but many others are

still choosing to avail of colleges further

afield.

While the prestigious Oxford and

Cambridge Universities regularly

attract Irish students to England, 721

Irish students studied in Scottish

learning institutions last year while

188 attended Welsh universities.

President of the Union of Students

in Ireland Hamid Khodabakhshi

believes there are several elements

that contribute to students moving

to Britain for their third-level

education.

He said: "Firstly there are a lot of

students who have relatives in

Britain.

"A lot of Irish students would study

abroad and then return home.

"It is also about the university.

"If you're getting a place in a prestigious

college then you will obviously

want to go there."

The availability of courses is also a

factor.

Mr Khodabakhshi said: "There are

also some courses that are not in Ireland

altogether.

"It's a matter of availability and

whether there is a market in Ireland

for certain courses.

"One example is homeopathy.

"There isn't a third-level institution

that offers homeopathy in Ireland but

in England it would be a very broad

field, so it depends on population and

demand."

Were Ireland to reintroduce thirdlevel

fees, Mr Khodabakhshi acknowledges

it would see the number of

students studying in Ireland drop.

He said: "I still haven't seen a proposal

for that.

"I don't think the political ground in

Ireland is ready for something like

that and I would be opposing that

extremely hard.

"Paying fees puts people off thirdlevel

education."

The normal closing date for applications

to UCAS, Britain's universities

and colleges admissions service, is

January 15.

UCAS operates a different closing

date for applications to medicine, dentistry

and veterinary medicine.

And applications for courses in the

University of Oxford and Cambridge

University are usually required to be

completed three months earlier.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              619 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            November 30, 2007 Friday

Stocks contest one for the ages

BYLINE: By Brianna Lange The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 458 words


Westminster College honors students are about to find out if they are better at
picking a winning stock portfolio than is a group of seventh graders.

On Friday, 19 seventh-grade students from the personal finance class of Rowland
Hall-St. Mark's School and eight Westminster honors students attended a crash
course in investing at Westminster to kick off a competition between the two
groups to see who invests more wisely.

The seventh graders were split into seven teams, and each group was given $1
million virtual dollars to invest. The teams' earnings will be averaged at the
end of January and compared to the college students' earnings.

"Congratulations, you're all millionaires," said Ryan Hessenthaler, the director
of Westminster's Center for Financial Analysis, who delivered the lesson in
investing.

The students then broke apart into their groups to choose their stocks on an
investment simulator site, investopedia.com.

The competition was organized by Richard Badenhausen, a professor at Westminster
and director of the honors program, whose eighth-grade son is a student at
Rowland Hall and took Principal Stephen Benhoff's class last year.

"It was a perfect marriage," said Badenhausen. "I expect the Westminster
students to win, but I hope the Rowland Hall students win."

Benhoff has been teaching the personal finance class at Rowland Hall for three
years, but this is the first year the students will participate in simulated
investing.

"They're at the point where they have enough worldly experiences to learn about
money. They are starting to think 'What would I do with money?' and getting
their first jobs," said Benhoff.

But, the seventh graders didn't seem to need much instruction. They answered all
of Hessenthaler's questions about the stock market, and turned down help from
Westminster's Finance Club President Isis Diaz, in choosing their stocks.

Seventh-grader Ariel Fuola said that her team took the season into consideration
when choosing its stocks. "I'm thinking Starbucks would be good because people
buy hot drinks this time of year," she said.

"We were also looking at places where we shop, like Old Navy and Staples," said
Bailey Kirby.

The seventh-grade team of Micah Matthews and Duncan Flint chose Microsoft,
Freddie Mac, Amazon.com and Apple for their investments.

"We wanted the biggest ones," said Matthews.

Common stocks among the seventh graders were Apple, Google and Amazon.com, but
the college students had a different approach.

"We're investing in oil, retail, blue chips and beer," said Robin Hill, a
sophomore majoring in economics.

The end reward may be a greater knowledge of investing, but the students are
most looking forward to see who will win because the loser has to buy the winner
pizza.

blange@sltrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Westminster College honor students, from left, Brody Leven, Robin Hill,
John Cook, Paula Porter and David Mursener- Gonzales, strategize Friday as they
build a stocks portfolio for their competition against students from Rowland
Hall-St. Mark's.
Rowland Hall-St. Mark's seventh graders, from left, Isabelle Bertran, Bailey
Kirby, and Kate Patterson, choose their stocks.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              620 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                           January 19, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Doctors' ability patients' top issue

BYLINE: Pamela Fayerman, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 736  words


Women overwhelmingly prefer female doctors and men don't much care one way or
another, when it comes to ranking the most important factors in choosing a
family doctor, health consumers say.

A doctor's competence is their leading concern, according to a University of
B.C. medical school survey.

Dr. Maryam Zeineddin and Dr. Colleen Kirkham conducted the survey as part of
required research in the second year of their family medicine residency.
Zeineddin said the results, which were recently presented at a family medicine
forum, are interesting and somewhat ironic because patients aren't given any
information about a doctor's competence except anecdotally, by word of mouth.

"I guess when patients get an accurate diagnosis or proper treatment they can
have confidence in the competency of their doctor but until that point, there is
little they know except that the doctor has passed their exams and been
licensed," she said.

In the survey, 200 patients at four different medical clinics located in various
neighbourhoods, were asked to rank the issues that were a priority when choosing
a family doctor.

Patients ranked the top three issues influencing their decision in choosing a
doctor as competency, followed by personality and then being up-to-date in their
knowledge.

"I was happy that gender was not the number 1 issue," Zeineddin said, noting the
survey was partly initiated to help her decide whether to work in an all-female
or mixed practice.

Just over half of survey respondents had a preference in the gender of their
family doctors; over two-thirds of women said they prefer a female doctor, and
one-third of men said they have a preference for male doctors.

Previous research has shown that women physicians are perceived as giving
patients more time and being more communicative and empathetic, said Zeineddin,
who, upon completion of her residency program last year, took over a retiring
doctor's practice in West Vancouver and within three months had a full practice.

Dr. Morris VanAndel, registrar of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of
B.C., the regulatory agency for the province's 8,500 doctors (about half of
which are family doctors) said he finds the survey encouraging because it shows
people are putting the emphasis on the most important things.

Nevertheless, he agrees that competency is not something of which patients are
readily aware and the college website, which lists doctors and links patients
looking for doctors accepting new patients, is just that -- a listing of
licensed doctors. The website also informs patients if doctors have been found
guilty in disciplinary proceedings.

VanAndel said there is a movement afoot across Canada to measure physician
performance and report such information to the public.

"In the 1990s, we were preoccupied with doctors who were having inappropriate
sexual relations with patients and now things have evolved to the point the
public is demanding assurances that doctors are as competent as they profess to
be," he said.

The college received 432 complaints about the quality of medical performance in
2004, up from 423 in 2003.

"Patients are more assertive now, they are more sophisticated and there are a
whole bunch of reasons why everything is more complicated now," he said, noting
that a doctor who passes medical school exams may still not be seen as the most
competent.

The college does spot and targeted audits on 100 to 200 doctors each year to
determine if they are providing good care and keeping adequate records, and
every doctor in B.C. over the age of 55 is subjected to inspections and
assessments.

In Alberta, new physician assessment surveys will be introduced that patients
fill out and then send back to regulatory authorities but that is not a likely
approach to be used here because it is not as objective a tool as the college is
seeking, VanAndel said.

pfayerman@png.canwest.com

- - -

PATIENTS RANK THE FACTORS USED TO CHOOSE A FAMILY DOCTOR

Competence leads the way, although patients usually only know that a doctor has
passed exams and is licensed.

Issues Percentage of Responses

Family doctor's competency: 26.2%

Family doctor's personality: 24.2%

Family doctor who's up-to-date: 15.5%

Location of office or clinic: 8.0%

Family doctor's gender: 7.0%

Family doctor open to alternative medicine: 5.6%

Time allocated per patient: 5.6%

Family doctor's age: 3.1%

Office accepting new patients: 2.6%

Hours the office or clinic is open: 1.9%

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Mark van Manen, Vancouver Sun; Dr. Maryam Zeineddin (above) and
Dr. Colleen Kirkham conducted the survey that found a doctor's competence is the
leading concern of B.C. patients.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2006 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              621 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 7, 2002

Education: Higher: Next step: A slow course of action: Students spend a lot of
time weighing up all the factors when choosing a university.

BYLINE: Polly Curtis

SECTION: Guardian Education Pages, Pg. 39

LENGTH: 851 words


Ammisha Shah, 18, has spent three years trying to work out which university to
go to. She wanted to get on the right course, move away from London and have a
good time. She decided on economics at Manchester and did an extra year of
A-levels at Westminster-Kingsway College in London to get the grades. Despite
ploughing through the prospectuses and traipsing up and down the country to open
days, the choice came down to two factors. "I was impressed by the fact that a
lecturer in Manchester wrote my A-level text book, and my mate's sister said it
was brilliant." But despite all the deliberations, she still has her moments of
doubt.

The factors Ammisha has worked through to arrive at a decision are incredibly
complex. Course, location, reputation, cost, social life, local activities and
grade requirements have all been weighed up against one another. And she's still
not convinced. Yvonne Moogan of John Moores University in Liverpool, author of
the largest ever survey into how people make this decision, says that choosing a
university is "the biggest decision most young people have ever made".

Moogan spent 14 months in local sixth-form colleges asking students about the
factors they considered in deciding which university to go to, and how they
negotiated the trade-off between them. The results showed a highly sophisticated
and logical pattern of decision-making. On average, people chose their
university according to course, location, reputation and grade requirements, in
that order. What was more surprising and, says Moogan, "encouraging", was the
time and effort students put into the decision.

But, she says: "There is so much information available now - prospectuses,
libraries and open days. It can be confusing, and who do we listen to? Parents,
teachers or friends? All of whom have different agendas."

The research also highlighted some interesting disparities. Pupils from
fee-paying schools are attracted by reputation far more than those from state
schools; boys were more confident about decision-making; less academic students
used more sources of information than others. Which all point to the fact that
the "non-traditional" students the government is trying so hard to attract into
higher education are the ones finding it hardest to make that leap confidently.

Based on the research, Moogan has formulated a best-practice model. According to
this, students should start thinking about where to go, or indeed whether to go,
in year 11, before going through a process of information-searching and decision
making over the next two years.

But Johnny Rich, author of The Push Guide to Choosing a University, says that
the decision does not always have to be so definitive: "Most people don't know
what they want to do with their lives at 16 or 18, so the course factor is not
always the best indicator.

"To avoid the risk of not completing your degree, pick a course you enjoy and
make sure you're going somewhere you want to be."

Students increasingly see themselves as customers in a market of higher
education, says Rich, a change encouraged, though not initiated, by the
introduction of fees. As such, they are increasingly interested in the hard
facts: the drop-out rates and percentage of graduate recruitment, how well a
course will prepare them for later life.

But besides the hard facts, there's also the "wow factor". In Moogan's study,
reputation was rated as the third most important element. Khayyam Ghafoor, 18,
and also doing his A-levels at Westminster-Kingsway College, has been offered
conditional places at five London universities to study engineering. The first
thing he considered was prestige. "I wanted people to recognise the course I
did, and to know that it is good," he says.

So what does this mean for universities? Of the new universities, Luton has had
a particularly hard time managing its image. It was made a university in 1993,
before which it was Luton College of Higher Education, missing out entirely on
polytechnic status. In a country rife with acade mic snobbery, Luton has been
the butt of many jokes.

Yet it also has a below-benchmark drop-out rate, its teaching has been highly
rated by the higher education watchdog and, according to Hefce figures, it has
the highest employment rate for graduates in the country.

Steve Kendall, director of student recruitment at Luton University, says that
they have found a way to key into the factors that students care about when
choosing a university, despite being picked on by the press. "We are
accommodating to people - responsive and inclusive. What we felt we had to do
was decide what we were about that we had confidence in. We decided it was about
education that works. So we focused on the twin goal of educating and preparing
for work.

"I think it is true that young people are interested in buying into reputation,
that's why the clothes they wear have writing on them. But I suspect that they
also have the intelligence to probe beyond that surface; picking a university
isn't like choosing a bag or pair of shoes."


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              622 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Morning Call

                            February 12, 2017 Sunday
                                 Other Edition

Tips for choosing a major

SECTION: OTHER; P; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 329  words


Choosing a major is an important decision.

Students often find entering college as an undecided affords them the
opportunity to explore various courses of study without committing themselves to
any particular subject.  The following tips can help students ensure they make
the right decision about which path to take for the remainder of their college
careers.

* Visit your school's career center. College career centers are a great resource
for college students as they narrow down their options concerning a major. Many
career centers have programs in place designed to match students' interests and
personalities with courses of study. Utilize these programs if you are having
trouble matching an interest with a major.

* Take action. Classrooms can be great places to discover a passion for a
particular field of study, but lectures or entry-level courses are not always
enough to spark interest. If there are particular fields of study that interest
you, find extracurricular clubs that are associated with those majors. Such
clubs may host speakers or seminars that can give you greater insight into the
field than you might glean from the classroom. Attend such events when possible,
and bring any questions you might have about the course of study they are
associated with.

* Speak to upperclassmen. Underclassmen may make up the majority of students in
entry-level courses, but you may encounter some upperclassmen who have already
chosen their majors in such classes from time to time. Such students can be
valuable resources for other students looking to gain greater insight into
courses of study. Ask about particular classes and professors who upperclassmen
found particularly engaging and encouraging.

* Pursue an internship. The hands-on experience provided by an internship is a
great way for students to learn if a particular line of work is for them.
Internships can provide an insider's look into particular professions and
industries.

Metro Creative

Connection

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2017 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              623 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                              June 28, 2009 Sunday

AIMST helps find ways to finance studies

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 403 words


CHOOSING a career path begins with the right choice of a tertiary programme.

Studies show that the earlier a student begins preparing for tertiary education,
the more likely they are to attend university and succeed.

Asian Institute of Medicine, Science and Technology (AIMST) University chief
operating officer and deputy chief executive officer M. Sandrasekaran explains
that tertiary education can provide an individual with more career options, a
higher income and better decision-making skills.

Apart from meeting entry requirements, it is also important for students and
parents to evaluate affordability as a key component when choosing a tertiary
programme.

According to deputy vice-chairman of student affairs Prof Harcharan Singh, one
should plan for the entire duration of the programme and explore options
available.

However, he is quick to add that it is important for students and parents not to
rule out a programme merely due to cost constraints. Often, the overall cost
correlates with availability of financial aid.

For instance, a medical degree at AIMST costs RM220,000. A student applying for
a PTPTN loan will be awarded 68 per cent of the overall cost.

"To ease the burden of these families, we offer various sources of financial aid
to our students."

AIMST is one of the few private universities where students are eligible to
apply for JPA scholarships.

This has provided an easier route for qualified students to pursue a degree in
medicine, dentistry or pharmacy.

All AIMST Foundation in Science students who achieve nine As and above in their
SPM examination are eligible to apply for JPA scholarships.

After completing the foundation programme, they can apply for the JPA
scholarship. Apart from JPA scholarships, AIMST has its own SPM Excellent
Performance Awards given to SPM achievers who obtain a minimum of five A1s or a
minimum of six As. The discount ranges from 10 to 70 per cent off tuition fees.

The AIMST Full Scholarship Scheme is given to students pursuing the Foundation
leading to Business, Engineering and IT. Students are required to pay for their
accommodation and food.

Upon entry into their respective degree programmes, students can apply for PTPTN
loans.

"We have special officers assigned to assist students who wish to apply for
financial aid. These officers are based in the Student Affairs Division at the
university," said Harcharan.

For more information, visit www.aimst.edu.my.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


                              624 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                          September 14, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL Edition

Harvard leads the way in fairer admissions;
Early admissions programs unfairly benefit students who don't need the help.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 286 words


The nation's most famous university acknowledged something Tuesday that has been
painfully obvious to teachers, guidance counsellors, parents and students for a
long time.

There is something wrong with our college admissions system, and it is in need
of reform.

Harvard College announced that beginning next year it will no longer accept
early admission applications. From now on, the university will look at all of
its applications together and decide who to accept.

Interim President Derek Bok said Harvard has recognized that the students who
apply for early admission are wealthier and less likely to be ethnic minorities
than applicants as a whole. Early admissions applicants are accepted at a higher
rate than regular applicants, giving, Bok said, an advantage to people who are
already advantaged.

Harvard's decision should make dropping out easier for other institutions that
have grown uncomfortable with the process, but were afraid give up a competitive
edge.

It will also offer a measure of relief to high school students and the people
who care about them, who have been under ever increasing pressure to begin the
process of applying to school sooner. What was once a chore reserved for the
last year of high school, has been pushed back to the junior year in the hopes
of improving the odds of the admissions gamble.

Pushed to take advantage of early admissions practices, families are pressured
to work with paid consultants and tutors who can make class advantage look like
merit.

Harvard's decision will not wipe out all of these inequities, but it's a good
beginning.

If other schools follow suit, then maybe a more equitable method of schools
choosing students and students choosing schools will evolve.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              625 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                            April 14, 2007 Saturday

rants & raves

SECTION: Pg. M-6

LENGTH: 442 words


WHY ARE 8TH GRADERS CHOOSING 'MAJORS'?

Why is my 13-year-old eighth-grader choosing a major? As a result of House Bill
7087, my child is required to choose a "major" upon entering high school next
term.

I attended an informational parent meeting earlier in the year hosted by the
Department of Education and learned that the intent of this legislation is to
involve larger numbers of high school graduates in some form of post-secondary
education. While I consider this a worthy endeavor, I find the means employed to
meet this end more than minimally flawed.

My child is an A student and plans to attend college, but he does not know want
he wants to study. Nonetheless, a major must be declared. Of the majors offered
at his future high school, many are career specific or academies in which he has
no interest.

Were he to declare an academic major such as language arts or math, he would be
required to take eight credits of that subject - four required in the core
subject area and four being required as "major area of interest elective" as
graduation requirements.

His greatest interest lies in the AP Scholars major, but none of the AP classes
he would take in the core subjects would count toward his major area of interest
elective requirements. Thus, he would be required to take an AP elective each
year over and above the AP classes he would choose in his core subjects.
Additionally, he will need the newly required HOPE credit, two foreign language
credits and one fine arts credit. This leaves no electives to explore any
computer, automotive, drivers education or P.E. classes that could enrich his
already rigorous academics.

In my opinion, this legislation has taken the "elect" out of elective by
limiting electives to major interest areas. Interestingly, my 10th-grader
recently received PSAT scores. Included was a statement that reads: "Many
college freshmen are 'undecided' about their majors. In fact, most 4-year
colleges expect you to choose your major at the end of your second year or at
the beginning of your third year. College is designed to give you time to make
up your mind: Most colleges require you to take a broad range of general
education courses in your first two years so that you can discover, develop and
explore new interests."

If college students are permitted to discover, develop and explore, why are high
school students being restricted? I am whole-heartedly committed to the
necessity of post-secondary education, but I believe that students would be
better served if the declaration of a major were left as an option/opportunity
and not set forth as the restrictive mandate it is turning out to be for my
child.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: None

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Florida Times-Union


                              626 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                             May 29, 2008 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

BUYER'S EDGE ;
Gifts for grads

BYLINE: LINDA JERKINS; For the Journal-Constitution

SECTION: EVENING EDGE; Pg. 9NC

LENGTH: 435 words


When it comes to graduation gifts, parents and other family members often spring
for pricier playthings, including laptops, digital cameras, iPods and jewelry.
But there are other smart gifts you can give. Here are some to consider.

IN THE CARDS

For long-distance or hard-to-buy-for grads, give a gift card. After cash, gift
cards are a smart choice. For dorm basics and accessories, Target, IKEA,
Wal-Mart, Urban Outfitters and Bed, Bath & Beyond are popular with grads. For
music or must-have gadgets, try Circuit City, Amazon or an iTunes gift card.
Don't overlook gift cards to restaurants and fast-food spots, which offer a
break from dorm food or when the cafeteria is closed. P.S. Be sure gift cards do
not have an expiration date, any dormancy, or up-front or post-purchase fees.

BOOK BAG

A backpack for books and a laptop is a campus essential. While most grads would
prefer to buy their own, you can't go wrong choosing a North Face backpack.
Students like the Borealis ($69) or the sporty Recon ($79) to take to class. But
play it safe when choosing a color. Pick black, olive green or navy blue for
your favorite guy. Girls may like something bright --- like yellow or red. When
in doubt, ask before you buy. Available at REI, Sports Authority and Dick's
Sporting Goods.

DRINK UP

For hot or cold drinks in the dorm or at the tailgate party, take along a Tervis
Tumbler. The clear, insulated drinkware is available in four sizes, but it is
the Big T that is a hit on campus. With more than 150 college logos, it is easy
to pick a shatterproof tumbler that will work. Consider a set of two and add a
custom-fitting lid to avoid spills. The Big T with a college logo is $14.99 at
Tumblers 'N' Totes, 4055 Old Milton Parkway, Alpharetta. 770-777-4888. Drink
ware also can be found at area Swoozie's and at www.tervis.com.

OTHER GIFTS THAT RATE

Here are some other gift ideas from been-there parents and college students.

* Small cooler

* iPod sounddock

* Flip flops for hikes to the shower and around campus. Crocs ($29.99-$34.99) or
ToeGoz ($19.95) in various colors and college logos.

* Towels

* Luggage tags (with college logo) if they are attending college out of state.

* Note cards with college logo or imprinted with grad's name or initials

* Multifunction tools, like a Leatherman or Swiss Army Knife

* Message board with wipe-off surface and dry-erase marker for dorm door

* Anything monogrammed (fleece blankets, towels, jewelry, stationery, notepads)

* TALK TO US: What is your favorite gift for grads? Tell us! E-mail us at
eveningedge@ajc.com or write to Evening Edge, 72 Marietta St. N.W., Atlanta, GA
30303.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Target/ImageData* ImageData*
Photo: Tervis/ImageData* ImageData*
Photo: North Face/ImageData*

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2008 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              627 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           August 15, 2001, Thursday

CHOOSING THE RIGHT BANK

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 545 words


THE results are in and you've achieved your goal - chosen your college and
accepted your place.

But one question remains unanswered:

how are you going to cope financially throughout your years of study? The
answer, visit a bank you can trust.

At HSBC Bank it is recognised that a student's financial quandary should be a
top priority. Believing that a problem shared is a problem halved, HSBC has
launched its 2001 Student Service, available to new undergraduates.

Statistics show that nearly threequarters of school leavers about to go to
college for the first time are worried about their financial situation. This is
not surprising, as on top of all the usual expenses of college life, two-thirds
of students starting off this year will have to pay some of their own tuition
fees.

Choosing the right bank is crucial to ensure you can concentrate on your studies
and enjoy college life, rather than worry about money.

Where to start? Don't be sucked in by gimmicks such as record vouchers, a mobile
phone or free CDs. These may sound like a great idea, but a four-year railcard,
for example, could save you hundreds of pounds over the years, whereas a mobile
phone could cost you hundreds.

So, the advice from Gloria Allerton, community liaison manager for HSBC Bank plc
is, don't grab the first goodie offered - think long term.

An important question to ask is: "Does your bank offer an interest-free
overdraft?" Nearly three-quarters of students believe they will be in debt by
the end of their course, so it is vital to know you can borrow without paying
interest.

Make sure you check what limits are set on interest-free overdrafts. Remember,
whatever you borrow will have to be paid back eventually, so biggest is not
always best.

Credit cards and payment cards are always useful if you need access to money in
a hurry. Most credit cards allow you a 56-day interest-free period but try to
clear the debt each month, to avoid paying interest. Make sure you check
interest rates and annual charges first.

Pick a bank you feel comfortable with and which explains everything in a
straightforward manner without blinding you with financial terminology.
Financial advisers are on hand to ensure you get the most from your account,
advising you of special deals and latest offers.

Almost a quarter of current students will end up with debts of between pounds
5,000 and pounds 10,000. But well over three-quarters think this debt is worth
it. The danger arises when debts slide out of control.

Don't become overdrawn without arranging with your bank first, or you could get
stung for charges. If it looks like you're heading for money trouble - tell your
bank. The chances are they'll be helpful and sympathetic.

HSBC's student package

HSBC offers a comprehensive student package, which includes:

Fee- and interest-free overdraft facilities.

Four-year rail card worth pounds 72.

More support for students studying architecture, dentistry, medicine and
veterinary medicine.

Highly competitive student belongings insurance.

Specialised youth travel service.

More banking options.

Dedicated student website.

Call 0800 520 420 for further information or visit its website at www. hsbc. co.
uk

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THE YOUNG ONES: But not the bright ones, they were always struggling
against debt

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd


                              628 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Brisbane News (Australia)

                            July 14, 2010 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

CLAYFIELD COLLEGE

SECTION: BRISBANE NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 162 words


Choosing the right school for your child's education is one of the most
important decisions a parent has to make, and it's a decision that will have
ramifications for the child's future. Why not visit Clayfield College on
Saturday, August 14, between midday and 4pm, to see what makes it a great
school. Clayfield College has a proud tradition and record for academic
excellence, wide-ranging extracurricular programs, exceptional pastoral care and
leadership programs as well as outstanding community service programs. Clayfield
College caters for girls from Pre-Prep to Year 12 and boys from Pre-Prep to Year
5. With such a range of opportunities available to the students to be successful
it is little wonder parents are choosing Clayfield College as the school for
their children. For more information about a Clayfield College education,
contact the director of marketing and enrolments on the number below.

23 GREGORY ST, CLAYFIELD

PH: 3262 0220

WWW.CLAYFIELD.QLD.EDU.AU

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: BNM


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              629 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                           January 28, 1995 Saturday

CATHOLIC PARENTS LOOK FOR DISCIPLINE IN CHOOSING COLLEGE

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: HELE M

LENGTH: 414 words


KEYWORD-HIT Catholic parents look for discipline in choosing college D ISCIPLINE
and a Catholic education were the cataly sts for two Gold Coast couples to seek
private Catholic schooling and nothing else for their children. Former
Sydneysiders Terry and Chris Burke, of Carrara, and Malcolm and Regina Tucker,
of Ashmore, in total have five children attending the growing Aquinas Catholic
College at Southport. Aquinas is one of several Catholic high schools which has
a squeeze on numbers, and with 730 enrolled students for a maximum of 750
places, Catholic education is well and truly alive on the Gold Coast. Brisbane
Catholic Education has recognised a crisis situation exists on the Gold Coast
with the demand for school places far exceeding supply. For the Burkes and the
Tuckers, both strong Catholic families, there was no alternative but a Catholic
education for their children. ""We are churchgoers and, no matter what the
circumstances were in our lives, we always intended sending our children to
Catholic schools," Mr Burke, whose children Tim, 17, and Genevieve, 14, attend
Aquinas, said. ""Apart from the obvious religious attachment, the aspect of
Catholic education which appealed to Chris and I was the discipline which exists
in these schools. ""Apart from discipline there are a host of reasons. The
teachers care about the kids and get to know all of the kids. ""The kids learn
loyalty and a strong school spirit exists, not only among the kids but in the
school community. ""A common bond exists among the families of a Catholic
school." Mrs Tucker, whose children Grant, 16, Katherine, 14, and Theresa, 13,
attend Aquinas, also cited discipline as a factor, although it was not as strong
as the religious aspect of having her children taught at a Catholic school. Mr
Tucker is doubly happy their children are at Aquinas because in 1968 he was
among the first class of graduating seniors to complete their schooling at
Aquinas, which was established in 1964, with Mr Tuckwell in year 8. ""We are
practising Catholics and try very hard to teach our children their faith in the
home," Mrs Tucker said. ""The schooling reinforces that education. We never
hesitated or even thought twice that our children would be educated in a private
Catholic school." The Burkes and the Tuckers both explained that, while they
were very religious, not all children at the school hailed from Catholic
families. In fact, 10 percent of enrolled students are non-Catholic.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1995 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              630 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            January 3, 2006 Tuesday

Education: Opinion: Letters: Oxbridge tutors must choose for themselves

BYLINE: Karen Revans

SECTION: GUARDIAN EDUCATION PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 139 words


Relieving Oxbridge colleges of the responsibility for selecting candidates is
patronising and wrong-headed. As a comprehensive schoolgirl, I didn't find
choosing a college off-putting - indeed, I enjoyed it. The same is true for the
sixth-form college students for whom I am an Oxbridge coordinator.

My experience is that as tutors are choosing whom they are going to teach, they
take great care in selection and make remarkably good choices. When they are not
selecting their own students, the pressure to take less time on interviewing and
selecting will be great. The colleges will also have less incentive to market
themselves to sixth-formers, which will lead to a reduction in support at this
vital point - especially to those from non-selective state schools. This change
will be counter-productive.

Karen Revans

Bridgwater, Somerset

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              631 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                          November 23, 2005 Wednesday

Save historic Central site, activists demand;
Bid to make police quarters holding wall of Sun Yat-sen's alma mater green space

BYLINE: Barclay Crawford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 433 words


The government is putting profits ahead of history by ignoring evidence that the
site of the disused police married quarters in Central contains the last
remnants of Sun Yat-sen's school, residents and activists claim.

They say the 62,400 sq ft  site on Hollywood Road includes a wall that was part
of Central College, where the founder of modern China studied while in Hong
Kong.

The group is demanding the land be preserved as green space and a historical
monument rather than selling it to developers to build blocks of flats.

The police stopped using the quarters in 1997, and a year later it was rezoned
for residential development.

Roger Ho Yau-sheng has been interested in the history of Central since his days
as a member of the Junior Police Core, which held its sports events on the site.

Mr Ho claims he has spoken to labourers who built the building in 1950 as well
as to former police officers. All have confirmed the wall was from the college.

"One of the photos we have of the wall is from the government records office,"
he said. "Even without this wall, this area is full of the heritage and history,
and to build another bland skyscraper again removes a slice of that."

The residents' group claims the site meets all the guidelines to prevent it
being developed. Not only is it important from a heritage point of view, but
there is a  lack of open space in the area and the potential impact on traffic
of building flats there would be huge, it says.

Speaking after  the Town Planning Board's Metro Planning Committee  dismissed
the group's  appeal for the government to consider rezoning the land, Albert Lai
Kwong-tak,  of the Conservancy Association,  said the government was choosing to
ignore a fact that was "widely known" in the community. The government is not
telling the full truth here. People know what we are saying here is true, but
they are choosing to ignore it," Mr Lai  said.

The residents' group has photos of Central College in 1889 which show the wall
that is on the site.

Mr Lai said only one of 14 government departments had been against the
application - the Lands Department -  yet the decision had been made to push
ahead with the redevelopment.

"It's all about money," he said.

"They have this attitude that they should maximise their revenue no matter what
the cost is to quality of life."

In response to the application by residents, the government said there was ample
green space in Central and any historical elements of the police buildings would
be preserved.

It also said a 1,000 square metre block inside the site would be preserved as
green space.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The former Central College wall

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              632 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   Arab Times

                           October 11, 2012 Thursday

'Amir's call for holding ACD Summit a crowning gesture'

LENGTH: 1071 words


KUWAIT CITY, Oct 10: Under the patronage of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister
of Foreign Affairs Sheikh Sabah Al-Khalid Al-Hamad Al-Sabah, Kuwait University,
in cooperation with the Amiri Diwan, inaugurated an academic symposium on the
occasion of The First Asian Cooperation Dialogue Summit entitled Asia: Future
Visions.

The summit, which will take place from October 15-17, is the first of its kind,
and comes as a result for the calls of HH the Amir for a platform for the
furtherance of cooperation and exchange between the Asian countries, in the
presence of a large number of representatives from various different Asian
countries. The symposium, held by Kuwait University's College of Social
Sciences, aims to discuss the various issues affecting Asian countries today,
and the ways in which these issues can be tackled.

Opening the inauguration ceremony was Sheikh Sabah Al-Khalid Al-Hamad Al-Sabah,
who began by thanking the honored guests and participants of the symposium.

"In continuation of their pioneering role in serving society and supporting
decision-makers," said Sheikh Sabah, "the Asian academic institutes have
prepared academic and cultural lectures, as well as research and discussion
sessions on the sidelines of the international conferences, with recourse to the
resources and specialized expertise, which in turn hopes to present the essence
of their visions and ideas after a series of rich discussions, which will widen
the channels of policy and strategy makers in various fields.

"Ladies and gentlemen, HH the Amir's calls for the inauguration of the first
Asian Cooperation Dialogue Summit come in a crowning gesture to Kuwait's efforts
which are aimed at ameliorating the political, economical, trade and cultural
ties, which originate from our faith in the implementation of Kuwait's dynamic
role in drawing out the channels for the continent's future through the means of
cooperation, for the substantiation of the instruments of peace, security,
development, human rights and the ending of the specters of poverty,
environmental damage and climate change, and food security." He was followed by
Mohammed Abdullah AbulHassan, Advisor at the Amiri Diwan and President of the
Media Committee, a subsidiary of the Supreme Coordination Committee for
Conferences in Kuwait, who stated, "There is no better place than the College of
Social Sciences in Kuwait University to associate with for the preparation and
planning of this symposium; this college, whose dean and helpers place a very
large effort in creating this symposium, through their choosing of the topics of
discussion and research for the four discussion sessions, and choosing the
esteemed specialized and distinguished researchers in these topics from the
participant countries, and choosing the moderators for each session, aiming
throughout for the enrichment of the sessions through extensive research on the
issues at hand, and for a free and deep exchange of ideas and suggestions." The
conference was organized by the Dean of the College of Social Sciences, Abdul
Reda Asssiri, who presided over the symposium. "Our pride in belonging to the
Asian continent makes for our broad ambitions towards development and growth, as
our continent is the largest producer and consumer of energy on earth, in
addition to its creation of pioneering and distinctive development models, as
well as being home to various important blocs, such as the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations, South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, and
the GCC. As such, we hold all of the opportunities for the creation of gradual
economic integration, eventually leading to Asia becoming a distinguished
economic region, especially seeing as it already has the geographical, human and
cultural resources needed for success." Also present at the inauguration was
Professor Er_at Hürmüzlü, Senior Advisor to the President of Turkey in Middle
East Affairs, stating that, "I see the world as a distinct clock, with cogs
ticking towards the east, in succession with the movements of progression in
social, economical, political and scientific development which are also heading
eastwards, to Asian countries. Many evaluate the development and growth of
countries through their economic surplus or their GDP, but I am sure that the
large contributions in social sciences, humanities and sciences are what will
define the future, and this is what we see in the great evolution of Asian
countries." The symposium consists of four sessions over two days, from October
10-11, each with various speakers and moderators. The first session discusses
Political and Strategic Asia, moderated by Sulaiman Majid Al-Shaheen, with
papers from Dr. Prapat Thepchatree (Thailand), Dr. Amin Saikal (Afghanistan),
Dr. Chung-in Moon (S. Korea), Dr. Aftab Kamal Pasha (India) and Dr. Mahmood
Sariolghalam (Iran). The second session discussed Social and Cultural Visions,
moderated by Dr. Mohammed Al-Rumaihi, with papers from Dr. Er_at Hürmüzlü, Dr.
Abdulla Almadani (Bahrain), Dr. Nikolay Petrov (Russia), Dr. Mohammed Nasir
Tamara Tamimi (Indonesia) and Dr. Mohammed Monutty (Malaysia).

The third session covers Asian Economic Visions, and is moderated by Dr. Yousif
Al-Ibrahim, with Dr. Mohammed Ishak (Malaysia), Dr. Wu Bingbing (China), MR.
Abdulkareem Ayed (Kuwait), Dr. Sakashi Fukuda (Japan) and Dr. Mohammed Galal
(Bahrain) presenting papers. The fourth and final session examines Arabian Gulf
Peninsula Visions to an Asian Future, with Dr. Abdullah Bishara moderating and
Dr. Abdulkhaleq Abdullah (UAE), Dr. Suoud Al-Tamimi (KSA), Dr. Mohammed Sayed
Selim (Kuwait), Dr. Hassan Abdullah Jawhar (Kuwait) and Dr. Abdullah Sahar
(Kuwait) presenting papers. Each session ends with a discussion promoting the
exchange of ideas amongst the speakers and between the audience.

On the sidelines of the opening ceremony, Sheikh Sabah Al-Khalid Al-Hamad
Al-Sabah stated that the Asian continent accounts for over half the world's
population and a huge chunk of its energy, and that he has high hopes for this
summit in terms of bringing the nations together for a brighter future in
cooperation between Asian countries.

Finally, to conclude the opening ceremony, Dean AbdulReda Assiri presented
honorary plaques to Sheikh Sabah Al-Khalid Al-Hamad Al-Sabah, and Mohammed
Abdullah AbulHassan, followed by an intermediary buffet before the launching of
the first session of the symposium.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1143


                 Copyright 2012 Arab Times Kuwait English Daily
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              633 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                                August 28, 2006

SECTION: Opinions; Editorials; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1097 words


New York Gets Smarter

One hesitates to say it, because New Yorkers tend to hold their intelligence in
a high enough regard as it is, but the facts speak for themselves: We're getting
smarter.

According to newly released data from the Census Bureau, more and more college
graduates are choosing to live in  the New York metropolitan region--a stunning
increase of almost 700,000 between 2000 and 2005. During that same time, the
number of high-school dropouts in the region fell by 520,000, or nearly 20
percent.

Not surprisingly, the city--particularly Manhattan and Brooklyn--is driving the
trend. Over 57 percent of Manhattanites now hold a bachelor's degree--up from 50
percent in 2000--and 25 percent have advanced degrees. Brooklyn, which has
become a burgeoning outpost of the Manhattan intelligentsia, has seen a 24
percent rise in college graduates, and a 24 percent decrease in high-school
dropouts, over the past five years.

Not only are college grads from around the country zeroing in on New York, but
local high-school students are also choosing to pursue their higher education
here at home. City University, for example, has seen enrollment rise by 12
percent since 2000, while for the past three years in a row, New York University
has come out ahead of Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Brown, Cornell and Stanford in a
nationwide survey asking high-school seniors which university they would most
want to attend.

The ramifications of the census figures are significant. With more college
graduates, the city will likely see less crime and less behavior that puts a
strain on social-service agencies. New York's status as the world's media,
information and finance capital will be strengthened. At the same time, there is
concern among some sociologists that the surge in educated New Yorkers will
result in lower-income residents being pushed out of the city. The answer to
that is twofold:  increase the supply of affordable housing, and invest energy
and capital and bold ideas into public education, as Mayor Michael Bloomberg and
Schools Chancellor Joel Klein are doing, and thereby increase the pool of
educated residents.

The fact that more and more college students want to establish themselves in New
York is not an accident. It is the direct result of over a decade's worth of
smart, vigorous leadership from City Hall. The city has become the safest large
metropolis in the country, as new youth-friendly neighborhoods continue to
emerge in formerly bleak areas such as Fort Greene and Washington Heights.

Of course, New York has always been a natural magnet for the country's most
ambitious citizens. We welcome these latest smart arrivals. Now let's see if
they can make it here.

Bloomberg's $125 Million Smoke-Free Zone

Decades after the Surgeon General first announced that smoking cigarettes
can--and, indeed, probably will--kill you, a stunning number of Americans, as
well as people around the world, still insist on cultivating this fatal
addiction. The burden this places on public health is immense, not to mention
the secondhand smoke which degrades the well-being of those unfortunate enough
to live in proximity to a smoker.

In his first term, Mayor Bloomberg was periodically ridiculed for his commitment
to enacting the smoking ban in the city's bars and restaurants, whose owners
often claimed that the ban would destroy their business. That, of course, never
happened. Instead, bars and restaurants are doing a booming business, with new
establishments opening every week. And thousands of food-service workers, not to
mention restaurant patrons, are breathing easier.

If smoking can be curtailed in New York, why not elsewhere? Last week, the Mayor
announced that he is donating $125 million of his own money to global
anti-smoking and tobacco-control efforts over the next two years. One of the
priorities will be to change the image of smoking, so that young people in the
U.S., Europe, Africa and Asia--particularly in poor Third World countries--see
the dangers and folly of getting hooked. The money will also go toward
encouraging politicians to create laws that ban smoking, increase tobacco taxes
and fund programs to help people quit.

Mr. Bloomberg's contribution is the largest single donation ever to the
anti-tobacco movement, according to health officials. "If Mayor Bloomberg can
help governments take tobacco seriously, then it will have an impact," said Dr.
Prabhat Jha, an authority on tobacco control at the University of Toronto.

Like his fellow billionaire Bill Gates, Mr. Bloomberg has said he plans to give
most of his $5 billion to charity. Toward that end, he is creating a foundation,
to be housed in a $45 million mansion he is purchasing on the Upper East Side.
Last year, he gave away $144 million, ranking him seventh in a list of the
country's top philanthropists. The Mayor is to be commended for encouraging a
culture of generosity among the city's wealthy.

Yankees Win! So Does City

The Yankees went to Boston this week and knocked the stuffing out of the Red
Sox, their first five-game sweep of the Sox in 55 years. It was perfect timing:
Last week, ground was broken on the construction of a new Yankee Stadium in the
Bronx. The rickety grand old jalopy of the current stadium--built in 1923,
refurbished in the 1970's, and limping along today--will see its last game in
2009. The new arena next-door, built with $800 million of the Yankees' money,
will be good for the Bronx and good for New York.

Fifteen years ago, it looked plausible that team owner George Steinbrenner might
move the Yankees to New Jersey. Former Mayor Rudolph Giuliani proposed that the
team relocate to Manhattan's West Side--indeed, many fans were reluctant to
travel to the Bronx. Things have certainly changed since then.

The Yankees are drawing fans in record numbers, winning with smart and savvy
players, and letting the manager manage without siine advice. Now the team is
spending its own money on a state-of-the-art stadium, with the city and state
investing in parks and infrastructure in the surrounding area.

Chances are good that the Bloomberg administration will not repeat the errors of
the Lindsay administration, which used taxpayer funds for a renovation of Yankee
Stadium but failed to invest in the community. While it's true that the stadium
will be built on a site currently occupied by two parks, it is also true that a
new park will be built where the current stadium stands. Everybody wins.

The Yankees are the world's most famous sports team. They deserve a 21st-century
ballpark. So does the newest generation of Yankee fans.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Observer, L.P.


                              634 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           August 19, 1999, Thursday

Choice pickings

BYLINE: John O'Leary

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 466 words


CHOOSING a course in clearing requires just as much care as the more leisurely
process that aspiring students went through when they made their initial
applications, John O'Leary writes.

Drop-out rates have been rising in British higher education, partly because many
students regret their choice of course or institution. Candidates who rush into
accepting a place in clearing are more likely than any to be dissatisfied. Even
in the hurly-burly of clearing, there is time for detailed investigations of the
options. Institutional websites, guidebooks and personal advisers can all add to
the basic information to be gleaned from prospectuses.

Research by the Institute for Employment Studies, at Sussex University, has
shown what students have found most useful in making their choices. At the top
of the list was the Ucas handbook and prospectuses, without which any
application is virtually impossible.

Even more influential, however, was a visit to the university or college
concerned. Interviewees regarded open days as "crucial" to making the right
choice, but informal visits were also highly rated. All institutions with places
in clearing welcome visits from prospective students, and a surprisingly large
number of candidates manage a personal inspection before confirming an interest.

Other well-used sources were school and college libraries, direct contact with
higher education staff and recommendations from current students. About half of
those in the survey used league tables and other newspaper articles to help them
make their choice.

Quality assessments by the higher education funding councils were surprisingly
little used, although the teaching reports in particular are invaluable sources
of information. The majority of departments have now been assessed and are the
subject of individual reports,which are published on paper and on the councils'
websites: www.hefce.ac.uk for England and Northern Ireland, www.shefc.ac.uk for
Scotland and www.niss.ac.uk/education/hefcw for Wales.

The survey suggested that social life and even the reputation of a college or
university were less important to students than the course they were
considering. Many had quite firm career plans and clear ideas of the subject
they wished to study.

Distance from home, location and cost of living were all rated as important,
although not the main factors in choosing a course.

Older students were more likely than school-leavers to take such factors into
account and to consider employment prospects in the region.

Previous surveys have shown that financial considerations are surprisingly low
on applicants' lists of priorities. With student debt rising annually, it is
fair to assume that many would be more realistic if they were choosing again.


LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited


                              635 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Blade (Toledo, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 5, 2012 Sunday

Dreams balanced against realities in choosing career

BYLINE: Roneisha Mullen, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 865 words


Feb. 05--Nikki Rinehart would love to study American military history at the
University of Toledo, where she's a senior. But the chances of her landing a job
in a relevant field with that degree are slim to none.

"It's so specific, there's no real way to get into it," said Miss Rinehart, 23,
originally of Orlando, Fla.

While Miss Rinehart loves politics, the idea of having a career in it doesn't
excite her. But the idea of job security and career longevity were enough to
make her reconsider.

"I'm pretty much just doing it to get a government job," said Miss Rinehart, who
plans to go into political public relations. "I love to watch politics. I love
what's going on, but as far as having a career in it, I have no desire."

RELATED STORY: As cost of college soars, students consider options

As the cost of a college education continues to rise and entire career fields
are vanishing, students are becoming more cautious about their future plans,
abandoning the chase of their dream jobs while opting for careers that are in
demand and expecting to see growth.

"Job security and benefits are my main priorities when it comes to a job," Miss
Rinehart said.

As computers continue to be assimilated into nearly every aspect of everyday
life, computer-related careers in Ohio are the third-fastest growing in the
state and the fastest growing career that requires a four-year degree.

"If you have a degree in computer networking or a computer background, you can
write your own ticket," said Lewis Horner, section chief of workforce research
at the Ohio Bureau of Labor Market Information.

In Ohio, between 2008 and 2018, networks systems and data communication analysts
careers are expected to grow more than 43 percent, adding about 721 jobs each
year.

Careers in the medical field also will experience continued growth.
Traditionally "safe careers" such as nursing will see growth, but at a slower
rate than in previous years. In Toledo, there are about 289 openings for nurses
annually, Mr. Horner said.

"Baby boomers are starting to age out and retire from those careers. However,
hospitals may not be hiring a lot of nurses because things are flat," Mr. Horner
said. "But as soon as the economy picks up, people will start receiving health
care again and hospitals will start hiring."

Jobs will be available at all education levels, but not surprisingly, of the 100
highest paying careers, 91 require at least an associates degree.

Home health aides will be the fastest growing careers in the state, with an
expected growth rate of almost 48 percent.

"A lot of people are going to need care and they're not going into nursing
homes," Mr. Horner said. "Yes, those careers will see the most growth, but the
average wage is only about $10 hour."

The fastest growing careers that require at least a bachelors degree include
physician assistants -- with an expected growth rate of about 34 percent --
biochemist and biophysicists (32 percent), and applications computer software
engineers (31 percent).

Although these careers will be some of the fastest growing, that doesn't mean
they'll have the most job openings in coming years. Jobs such as cashiers,
waiters, and retail sales will have the most annual job openings, but they also
come with wages substantially lower than those in careers that require more
formal training.

As of May, 2009, the average hourly wage was $8.75 for a cashier, $8.99 for a
waiter, and $11.46 for a retail salesperson.

More than 6,000 cashiers, 5,000 waiters, and almost 4,500 retail sales staff are
expected to be added to the state workforce annually through 2018.

Marco Montero wanted to be a veterinarian, but decided to study exercise science
after noticing a national growth trend for athletic and fitness trainers.

"Sports is big business and it'll always be big," said Mr. Montero, a freshman
at Bowling Green State University. "I know I'll be able to get a job."

Athletic training is the fifth-fastest growing career in Ohio, with an expected
growth rate of almost 36 percent by 2018. About 60 jobs will be added to the
field each year and the average salary for the position is $42,860 annually.

Declining careers include those in the manufacturing and auto industries. With
school districts and municipalities struggling to balance budgets, teaching jobs
are also at risk of declining, Mr. Horner said.

Amanda Frey isn't bothered that her future job as a relationship adviser didn't
make the list of fastest growing careers or careers with the most annual
openings.

"I'm not really worried about it. It's what I love, it's what I've always wanted
to go into," said Miss Frey, who is double-majoring in sociology and psychology
at BGSU. After her undergraduate studies are complete, Miss Frey, 20, plans to
attend graduate school, which will cost her about $30,000 a year.

"My parents have always encouraged me to follow my dreams. They've always told
me I can do what I want," Miss Frey said. "As long as I'm doing what I want to,
the money shouldn't be the end all be all."

Contact RoNeisha Mullen at: rmullen@theblade.com or 419-724-6133.

___ (c)2012 The Blade (Toledo, Ohio) Visit The Blade (Toledo, Ohio) at
www.toledoblade.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120205-TO-Dreams-balanced-against-realities-in-choosing
-career-0205-20120205

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TO


                            Copyright 2012 The Blade


                              636 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Cumberland Times-News (Maryland)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 21, 2011 Thursday

FSU discusses violence on anniversary of student's death

BYLINE: Kristin Harty Barkley, Cumberland Times-News, Md.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 763 words


April 21--FROSTBURG -- A year after the shooting death of Frostburg State
University freshman Brandon Carroll, fellow students gathered to reflect on the
roots of violence  and talk about how to choose another way.

"We tend to think of violence as something that is essentially physical," said
Jean-Marie Makang, FSU philosophy professor and one of four panelists at
Monday's "Pieces of Peace Interfaith Forum."

"Rape. Killing. War. All forms of brutality. We tend to forget the root of
violence. The root of violence is the passive violence, which is the attitude,
or inner attitude, and our outer attitude, or behavior."

About 40 students and community members attended the forum, which offered wisdom
from four perspectives -- Hinduism, Judaism, Christianity, and the philosophy of
Gandhi. The event was organized by United Campus Ministry and took place on
April 18, the year-anniversary of Carroll's death.

Carroll was killed and FSU student Ellis Hartridge Jr. was injured after a
confrontation with another student outside an East College Avenue residence.

Tyrone Brent Hall pleaded guilty to involuntary manslaughter and is serving a
five-year prison term. He maintained that the shooting was in self-defense.

"In some way we wanted to honor (Brandon) and also to bring to awareness some of
the dynamics that resulted in his death," said Cindy Zirlott, director of UCM.

"One of those dynamics we saw at play was just the pervasive violence in the
culture. ... We wanted to find ways to do some intentional work of choosing to
be a nonviolent presence in our world, of choosing to be peacemakers."

Nonviolence is a theme that has been pervasive at FSU in recent weeks. Earlier
this month, the university participated in the "Enough is Enough" campaign, a
national program to end campus violence that began in response to the Virginia
Tech shootings in 2007. Events offered during the week of April 4-9 included
anti-bullying workshops, "Random Acts of Kindness" presentations and an online
chat on civility.

On Sunday, FSU's Student Government Association hosted a basketball game to
raise money for a scholarship to honor Carroll, who played on the FSU basketball
team. At half-time, some of Carroll's family members made remarks, FSU President
Jonathan Gibralter wrote in a letter to the campus community.

"They talked about choices and encouraged those in attendance to make good
choices," Gibralter wrote. "They also reminded our students that choices have
consequences. As Brandon's family knows all too well."

Monday evening's interfaith panel, which lasted 90 minutes, included the
performance of a short play written by UCM members. Characters personifying
discord, conflict and loss reflected on the consequences of violence, ending by
saying in unison: "Let's begin again."

"We don't always have to resort to a weapon," said Michael Parks, a youth pastor
at John Wesley United Methodist Church in Baltimore, who spoke from a Christian
perspective.

Parks' 30-year-old brother was shot and killed in December 2006 near the
family's home in Baltimore.

"We have to learn to handle our anger and handle our frustration differently,"
Parks said.

The Hindu tradition offers many mantras that focus on peace, said Laxman Hegde,
an FSU math professor.

"We say, 'Om, shantih, shantih, shantih ... peace, peace, peace...." Hegde said.
"Why three times? Peace within, peace between, peace with nature."

In the Jewish tradition, the value of peace is placed even above the value of
justice, said David Stern, an instructor in FSU's department of communications.

"Shalom -- peace -- is the traditional Jewish greeting," Stern said. "But even
to interpret shalom as peace would be to miss its subtlety. Peace in Judaism is
meant to indicate a sense of completedness, a kind of well-being between
individuals, groups, nations. It's not simply a state of quiet."

Sophomore Aaron Ware wants to be a peacemaker. He was out of town the night
Carroll was killed, but said the effects of the event are still rippling through
the university community.

"I'm a no-confrontational person myself," said Ware, a member of the United
Campus Ministry. "I'm really interested in promoting peace on our campus."

Contact Kristin Harty Barkley at kbarkley@times-news.com

To see more of the Cumberland Times News or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.times-news.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, Cumberland Times-News, Md.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110421-UM-FSU-discusses-violence-on-anniversary-of-student-s-death-0421-201104
21

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UM


                      Copyright 2011 Cumberland Times-News


                              637 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday
                                  ALL EDITION

OBAMA WILL WIN TOO BIG ON MONDAY;
VIEWS OF THE CAPITAL TIMES

BYLINE: John Nichols

SECTION: SUNDAY OPINION; Views of The Capital Times; Pg. E3

LENGTH: 521 words


Barack Obama on Monday will win the election for president by 62 percent to 38
percent.

That's a dramatically higher margin than he obtained with his 4.8 million
popular- vote victory Nov. 6. While there's no question Obama earned a mandate
when he beat Mitt Romney by 51-47 percent, it was nowhere near the 2-1 win he
will get when the 538 members of the Electoral College gather in state capitals
to vote Monday. And it is vital to recognize ? as unfortunate as the reality may
be ? that the Electoral College, not the American people, is the final
determiner of who becomes president.

Anyone who doubts this need only consult the results of the 2000 election, when
Democrat Al Gore won a solid popular-vote victory ? 560,000 ballots ? over
Republican George Bush. It is often suggested that the U.S. Supreme Court made
Bush president when it shut down the recount in the contested state of Florida.
But once the court had engineered the assignment of Florida's electoral votes to
Bush, it was the Electoral College that formally canceled out the popular will
of the people and gave the presidency to the loser of the election.

In fact, a number of candidates who were defeated at the ballot box assumed the
U.S. presidency because the Electoral College wiped away actual election
results. In recent years, in addition to Gore versus Bush, there have been
several instances where candidates who fell well short of a majority of the
popular vote ? John Kennedy in 1960, Richard Nixon in 1968, Bill Clinton in 1992
and 1996 ? assumed the presidency with overwhelming Electoral College "wins."

Plenty of arguments are constructed for maintaining the Electoral College. Often
they reflect the results of the moment. Many Democrats will delight on Monday in
Obama's likely 332 votes, as opposed to Romney's mere 206. As the fiscal cliff
wrangling drags on, Obama's backers will delight in a reminder of the
president's substantial win.

Obama did win by a lot.

But not by as much as the Electoral College will suggest. And that's what ought
to concern all of us.

If America aspires to be a democracy, no one should be happy with the fact that
a centuries-old political structure ? established when elites fretted that
democracy might threaten the institution of slavery ? will choose a president.

It's time to do away with the Electoral College and put the voters in charge of
choosing presidents, as they are in charge of choosing members of the U.S. House
and Senate, governors, legislators, mayors and school board members. We almost
made the change in the late 1960s, after Nixon secured the presidency with just
43 percent of the vote.

But America should not wait for the next contested or inconclusive election to
make the move. A number of states have endorsed the National Popular Vote
initiative of the reform group FairVote, which has the potential to build
popular support for amending the Constitution to do away with the Electoral
College.

When Wisconsin's 10 electors are done voting for Obama Monday, the legislators
among them should endorse moves to make Wisconsin part of the movement to
establish genuine electoral democracy.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              638 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             June 25, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Sisters are doing it for themselves;
TRAINING: An increasing numbers of women join the construction industry

SECTION: Pg. 60

LENGTH: 347 words


FEMALE students at Walsall College have been challenging traditional gender role
stereotypes by increasingly opting for construction courses, such as brickwork,
painting and decorating, carpentry and joinery and the built environment.

Construction has long been a maledominated industry, with few girls choosing to
study the subject. However, the females at Walsall College are continuing to
turn this trend around, signalling an end to the industry shortage of women.

Curriculum manager for construction Barry Hill said: "There has been a definite
increase in females choosing to enrol on construction courses here, from ten in
May 2006 to 19 in July 2008 and now 23 currently enrolled this year.

"This is a trend we hope will continue in the coming years to even up the gender
gaps in the industry." Barry added, "We welcome and positively encourage females
into construction. It's all about thoroughly explaining the requirements to
candidates, breaking down the stereotypical ideas and allowing them to see
classes taking place so they can see the environment they will be working in
before they start. We also have a female tutor on our team, so we are leading by
example."

Painting and decorating apprentice Victoria Maher, who was previously made
runner-up Apprentice of the Year with her company Seddons, commented: "I'd be
crawling the walls if I couldn't do a practical job.

"I've never been put off by it being more of a 'boyish' subject - if a lad can
do it, a girl can too. Being a girl hasn't been an issue at all, I get treated
like anyone else." Brickwork apprentice Claire Brittain, who won Apprentice of
the Year in 2007 with her company George Wimpy Homes, added: "I would definitely
encourage people to take a construction course at Walsall

College. You get the opportunity to gain the skills and experience to get a good
career in the industry.

"If there are other girls out there wanting to try a construction course, I'd
tell them to give it a go. It only takes a few girls to be different and get
into the industry and soon there will be loads of us!"

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Brushing up their skills: Some of Walsall College's female
construction students.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              639 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Sun

                             August 27, 2004 Friday

Colorado and New York

SECTION: EDITORIAL & OPINION; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 395 words


On Election Day, voters in Colorado will consider the Colorado Electoral College
Reform Initiative, which would change the way Colorado apportions its electoral
votes. If the measure is approved, the state would abandon the winner-take-all
system in favor of dividing up the electors according to each candidate's
percentage of the popular vote in the state.

The change, which would apply to the 2004 election, is meant to help Senator
Kerry, who is expected to lose in Colorado, take the White House. Instead of all
nine Colorado electoral votes going to President Bush, three or four would
probably go to Mr. Kerry. If Colorado had this proportional system in 2000, Vice
President Gore may well have won the election.

The proposed amendment to the Colorado Constitution has been billed as an
attempt to make more votes count in the election. The effect in the future,
though, would be to make Colorado voters less relevant in presidential contests.
By diminishing the payoff of winning Colorado - and essentially guaranteeing
each party a minimum number of electors - candidates would have less of an
incentive to campaign there.

This got us thinking about New York's electoral votes. Presidential candidates
already pay little attention to New York's voters, since the state is considered
reliably Democratic for presidential election purposes.

The candidates don't spend much time campaigning here and they don't spend much
money on television commercials here. If New York adopted a proportional system,
however, the 35% of New Yorkers who plan to vote for President Bush might have
some effect on the choice of president. And presidential contenders might come
to New York thinking that some electoral votes are in play. After all, the
Empire State's 31 electoral votes divide up better than Colorado's nine.

As would California's 55 electoral votes. California tends to go winner-take all
Democrat, but it has a large Republican minority.

The American Constitution gives each state the authority to decide its own
method for choosing presidential electors. If Democrats in a Republican-leaning
state like Colorado are trying to change the system so that they gain more
influence in choosing the Electoral College, they may well want to keep in mind
that Republicans in New York are entirely capable of following suit and raising
the question of their own undercounted votes.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The New York Sun, Two SL, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              640 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Guelph Mercury (Ontario, Canada)

                             April 3, 2014 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Campaign lists procedures doctors should try to avoid

BYLINE: Theresa Boyle, News services

SECTION: ARTS; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 284 words


No more automatic annual blood tests; no more automatic imaging for lower-back
pain; and no more pap tests for women under 21 and over 69.

Canadian doctors are being asked to cut back on these and 37 other tests,
procedures and treatments as part of a national campaign aimed at rooting out
unnecessary interventions.

The Choosing Wisely Canada campaign kicked off in Ottawa Wednesday morning with
the release of lists from nine national medical organization and specialty
groups of interventions that doctors and their patients are being urged to think
twice about. They're at www.choosingwiselycanada.org

Unnecessary imaging could needlessly expose patients to radiation. Unnecessary
procedures could lead to further interventions that can be invasive and possible
cause patient's side effects. As well, these tests and procedures take time and
drain resources.

The campaign is aimed at starting a dialogue between doctors and their patients
and ultimately changing the "more is always better" culture.

"It's time for physicians and patients to have some frank and healthy
conversations about the overuse of tests, treatments and procedures," said Dr.
Wendy Levinson, founder of Choosing Wisely Canada and chair of the department of
medicine at the University of Toronto.

The College of Family Physicians of Canada offered up a list of five unnecessary
interventions. The advice is not to do routine blood tests in asymptomatic
patients.

"This practice is more likely to produce false positive results that may lead to
additional unnecessary testing," reasons the college.

It also advises against X-rays, CT scans and MRIs for lower back pain unless red
flags are present such as severe or neurological deficits.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              641 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The West Australian (Perth)

                              May 30, 2016 Monday
                                 First Edition

Back to classroom basics;
 ABC series Revolution School gets an up-close look at learning and education
culture, writes Sue Yeap

SECTION: TOD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 716  words


F or many parents, choosing a school is probably a bigger decision than choosing
their child's name.

So it may come as a surprise that the hot-topic issues of class size, public v
private and homework don't have as much bearing on students' results as the
quality of teaching and teachers.

Revolution School is a new four-part ABC series for which cameras spent 12
months at Kambrya College, a typical public high school in Melbourne's outer
south east.

In 2008, Kambrya ranked in the bottom 10 per cent of schools in Victoria based
on Victoria Certificate of Education scores. With the school grappling with
disorder and lack of direction, principal Michael Muscat turned to educational
statistician John Hattie for guidance.

Professor Hattie, director of the Melbourne Education Research Institute, part
of the Melbourne Graduate School of Education at the University of Melbourne,
has spent decades crunching the data from more than 70,000 studies on the
factors that influence how well students perform at school. He found improving
the quality of feedback students receive and ensuring positive student-teacher
interaction led to the best outcomes for pupils, teachers and schools..

In just eight years, Kambrya has turned itself around in NAPLAN and in surveys
on teacher effectiveness, teacher empathy, school connectedness and parent
satisfaction. It has increased vocational courses to improve student retention
rates and introduced the SEAL (select entry for accelerated learning) program
for high achieving students.

In the first episode, viewers are given a sense of the challenges the teachers
face, ranging from disruptive and aggressive 15-year-old Tiarne, to
high-achieving 12-year-olds overwhelmed by their parents' expectations.

"We didn't set out to make a series about a school that was really doing it
tough, executive producer Michael Cordell says. "We wouldn't have chosen Kambrya
if that had been the case.

"We wanted to do a series about a school that had been through some tough times
but was really coming out the other side and doing really exemplary work.
Kambyra are very proud of what they have achieved."

Cordell said there was some nervousness ahead of the "very unfiltered" series
airing and he applauded the school's "absolute honesty in telling their story".

"I think the school was a bit nervous at one point that we might have been
showing too much negative material but I think that concern has diminished," he
said.

"Once you have seen the entire series it really is a heroic story and I would
defy anyone to walk away and not have great admiration for the teachers of
Kambrya, for what they have achieved. I think Kambrya is going to come out of it
very well."

Does Cordell think some parents may question the quality of the teachers at
their own children's schools after watching the series?

"We touch on this in episode four. According to the research you might find some
of the best teachers in the poorest areas and some of the worst teachers in the
wealthiest areas, there's no guarantee.

"Without question it's the teachers that matter. As parents we don't get to
choose the teachers; we choose the school. I guess you might look to the
leadership of a school and if you are impressed by the leader that might be a
signal, a good leader will choose good teachers.

"As the research shows, you might have a teacher who knows his or her history
back to front but if they don't impart that information well and don't have good
teaching skills they are not going to be as good as a teacher who only has a
sketchy understanding of a subject but is able to excite and communicate with
the students on a more profound level.

"I am very proud of what we have done because I think it creates a platform for
some really important discussions about how to improve education."

Cordell was surprised at the gap in student ability, as evidenced by new teacher
Grace Wong's Year 8 class, where some students were working at Year 3 level
through to others at Year 9 level. "One of the things I didn't understand until
we made the series, is the average classroom in Australia has a five or six year
difference in ability between the top and lowest performing students," he says.

"That's staggering and a huge challenge for teachers."

Revolution School  airs tomorrow at 8.30pm on ABC.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 West Australian NewsPapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              642 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           Bahrain News Agency (BNA)

                            March 10, 2016 Thursday

BTV crew readying to show "The Compass" programme

LENGTH: 264 words




Manama, Mar. 10 (BNA): Bahrain Television (BTV) producer Haya Al Qassim,
co-producer Sakeena Al Tawash, director Mahmoud Al Shaikh and production tracker
Mohammed Al Thawadi are readying to show their weekly "Compass" TV Programme
which will be aired on Fridays at 12:00 p.m. and replayed on Mondays at 10:00
p.m.


The programme is part of BTV current developmental plans and aims to increase
the awareness of prospective university students about university study
nitty-gritties, including choosing suitable specialization and the main aptitude
skills and capacities which a student should gain from studying at university.

The programme offers informative guidelines for secondary school students
interested in choosing and deciding on the course of graduate study and how to
find the university of their choice from the overall educational map.

The programmes introduces some educational issues, and remedies them in light
youthful manner with focus on showing the points of strength featured by the
Kingdom of Bahrain's universities, including specializations and colleges and
how the alumni suit the requirements of the labour market.

The programme instructs students on how to choose the suitable specialization
and prepares the students to benefit from their experience of university life,
also explains the role of the relevant ministries regarding coordination with
universities on determining the university disciplines considered as hot-cake
and suitable with labour market requirements.

I.Y

BNA 0820 GMT 2016/03/10

Publishing Rights Reserved to Bahrain News Agency  2003 - 2016

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 387


    Copyright 2003 -  2016 Publishing Rights Reserved to Bahrain News Agency
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.


                              643 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                             March 3, 2007 Saturday

Normal delivery

BYLINE: Public Forum Letter

SECTION: PUBLIC FORUM; Opinion

LENGTH: 205 words


Catherine Wheeler's Feb. 24 column, "SB243 is intended to make home births
safer," makes faulty assumptions.

First, it implies that home births are not safe. Internationally and nationally,
scientific studies support the safety of home birth. In Utah, a report has
recently been compiled that shows a 98 percent success rate in home deliveries
attended by licensed, direct-entry midwives.

Next, Dr. Wheeler writes, "SB243 does not prevent women from choosing home
births," but it does. The Utah Medical Association's definition of "normal" is
so restrictive that only around 5 percent of women currently choosing home
births assisted by midwives would still have that option.

Lastly, the assumption that it is the Utah Medical Association's, American
College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists' or Legislature's place to define a
"normal" pregnancy is faulty. In the medical field it is "normal" to
artificially start labor before the baby says it is ready, to tell a laboring
woman she cannot eat, to confine her to a bed for delivery, and in many - too
many - instances, to deliver a baby via major surgery. It is the midwives, not
the doctors, who truly know what "normal" pregnancy and delivery look like.

Tamilyn Fillmore

Centerville

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              644 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            March 30, 2002, Saturday

On course for success Picking the right degree gets students off to a flying
start, says Brian Heap

BYLINE: By Brian Heap

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 854 words

'What sort of job can I get with this degree?" is a question every university
adviser is asked at some point. Perhaps the best way of answering it is
illustrated by York University's careers website (www.york.ac.uk/
services/careers/current/ dests/welcome), which lists the jobs that students
secured on graduation.

They include someone with a degree in archaeology who is teaching English in
Poland, a biochemistry graduate who is a pensions administrator, a tax inspector
with a degree in the history of art, and 97 English graduates who chose not to
become teachers.

At a time when there is so much emphasis on vocational qualifications, it is
perhaps understandable that the most common misconception is that students
choose a university or college course with a career in mind.

Clearly employers think differently for they regard oral and written
communication, numeracy, information technology and an awareness of the job
itself as the essential qualities that all graduates should possess,
irrespective of their degree.

University applicants have their misconceptions, too, which highlights the need
for schools and colleges to prepare sixth-formers better. One of the features of
the new edition of my book, Degree Course Offers 2003, published this week, are
reports from admission tutors of the howlers committed by last year's
applicants.

There was one who thought a course in dental technology qualified you to
practise as a dentist; another was under the impression that computer science
involved playing computer games; a course in food science was taken to be about
catering and cooking; physiotherapy was assumed to have a sports bias; drama
degrees were mistaken for acting courses.

It is true, though, that university and college courses in the same subject can
vary quite considerably. That is why I have compiled Choosing Your Degree
Course, also just published, which describes how each course is presented by
each institution.

For the student interested in law, for example, there is criminal law at
Aberystwyth, business law at Bournemouth, French law at Essex, European law at
Exeter, German law at King's College London and Italian law at Kent.

In addition, it is possible to combine law with languages, psychology, taxation,
drama and marketing, among other subjects. Some of these courses allow you to
continue training as a solicitor or barrister; others do not.

Given the amount of research that applicants need to do when choosing their
courses - at a time when they are heavily involved in AS-levels - it is hardly
surprising that the annual drop-out rate among first-year students is as high as
20 per cent, with many more realising subsequently that their courses were not
quite what they expected.

Degree Course Offers passes on advice from admission tutors on a range of
topics, including what they expect to see on the UCAS personal statement for
each subject and the types of questions they ask at interview.

It also lists the top universities for both teaching and research. After
choosing their degree course, applicants face the next hurdle, which is choosing
an institution; naturally, they all want the best. For many, this is a matter of
location, type of campus, distance from home and living costs.

Reputation, of course, counts for a lot, and the offers made by the most popular
institutions speak volumes. These are listed in the book's subject tables,
making it easy to see which universities attract the most applicants with high
offers ranging from 280 points (grades BBC) to 360 points (AAA). While such
universities do get the brightest applicants, there are other universities in
less favourable locations that are less popular but offer equally good courses.

Inspections by the Quality Assurance Agency have gone some way to identifying
standards in teaching, but applicants should make good use of open days and
other opportunities to visit universities and colleges. Ask students in your
chosen subject about the teaching. Are the staff approachable? Do they have
flair and enthusiasm for their subject? Do they mark work promptly? Is the
feedback helpful? Does the department have state-of-the-art facilities?

Gathering information about these and other aspects of student life is the best
way to make a final decision about any course or institution.

Applicants are usually called for interview in such subjects as medicine and
law, and in some other popular subjects, but even at this stage, lack of care
and preparation often results in failure.

Admission tutors tell of applicants with "a lukewarm interest in their subject"
or have failed to read the prospectus, have an arrogant attitude, make no
contribution to a discussion or are even under the influence of drink.
'Degree Course Offers' ( pounds 22.99) and 'Choosing Your Degree Course' (
pounds 18.99) are published by Trotmans, 2 The Green, Richmond, Surrey TW9 1PL
(0870 900 2665). The books are available from Telegraph Books Direct (0870 155
7222) at the cover price plus pounds 1.99 p & p; or buy both for the special
price of pounds 37.98 (plus pounds 1.99 p & p).

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited


                              645 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                 March 9, 2001

Medicine, dentistry no longer seen as top careers
Arts, social science and engineering remain popular as students apply for
shorter courses

BYLINE: By EMMET OLIVER and SEAN FLYNN, Education Staff

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 446 words


A major fall has occurred in the number of college applicants seeking places on
such highpoints degree courses as medicine and dentistry, according to
confidential CAO statistics.

The figures - seen by The Irish Times - also show science courses making a
strong recovery after many poor years, and traditional areas such as arts and
law increasing in popularity.

The number of students putting medicine on their CAO list this year has dropped
by 17 per cent compared with last year. At the same time the number putting
dentistry on their list has fallen by 15 per cent and veterinary medicine was
also down by a small amount.

The number of students putting medicine and dentistry as their first preference
was also down.

According to college sources, students are becoming more reluctant to study
medicine and dentistry, which take longer to complete than most third-level
courses.

Another factor is that with salary levels rising in other areas, medicine and
dentistry are not necessarily the best-paid professions now.

The number of students choosing a science course as their first preference has
risen by three per cent - the first increase for many years. It is now the
fourth most popular area after arts/social science, business/administration and
engineering/technology.

The numbers taking science subjects at Leaving Certificate have collapsed over
the last decade and the Government - which has been making efforts to boost
interest in them - will be encouraged by the latest figures.

There was a seven per cent increase in the number of students choosing law as
their first preference, from 2,448 last year to 2,610 this year.

Arts/social science courses remained the most popular option for applicants,
with 13,125 choosing one of them as a first preference.

This was a five per cent increase on last year. Business courses fell by eight
per cent this year, but this area tends to fluctuate significantly from year to
year.

The picture was mixed for education courses - mainly primary teacher training
courses.

The number of applicants putting education at the top of their list dropped by
five per cent, but the number putting it farther down their list was up six per
cent. However, most of the teacher training colleges suffered sharp drops in
first-preference applicants.

First preferences for architecture were down by six per cent and art and design
courses were down by four per cent.

Because applicants are allowed to change their choices (with some exceptions)
until July, the current patterns could alter. However, the trends established by
March do not tend to change greatly, particularly in the most popular areas.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2001 The Irish Times


                              646 of 997 DOCUMENTS



              Chinchilla News and Murilla Advertiser (Queensland)

                               September 1, 2016

Discover the Christian difference

BYLINE:  Nathan McDonald

SECTION: Pg. 30

LENGTH: 503  words


FOR families wishing to discover the difference a secondary education at
Chinchilla Christian College makes on a child's life, the school is hosting an
information evening tonight from 7pm to 8.30pm in the Music Centre.

For parents with high- school-aged children, choosing which school will be most
suitable is an important decision.

A relevant question for parents to answer when considering this is, "What is
your vision for your child?"

In choosing a school, I encourage families to consider what kind of person they
wish their child to become. The clearer the vision parents have, the easier the
decision will be on which school fits the vision. At tonight's 2017 Secondary
Information Evening , there will be an opportunity for parents to explore the
benefits of a secondary education at Chinchilla Christian College and determine
if this fits with their vision.

At Chinchilla Christian College, we seek to provide our young people with a safe
and happy environment in our Secondary School where strong, Christian values are
promoted.

In this way, we aim to be a learning community where every student can shine -
spiritually, academically, emotionally, socially and physically. We are
passionate about offering a value-for-money educational alternative where
secondary students are engaged in their learning, enjoy positive relationships
with their peers and achieve success at school.

Chinchilla Christian College is excited to be growing in the Western Downs as it
moves into Year 11 next year, and Year 12 by 2018.

Being an independent school offering Kindergarten to Year 11 next year on the
one campus, students are able to have a seamless transition as they move from
primary into secondary.

We ensure for students going into Year 7, the first year of secondary school,
this step is a safe and successful one. With a combination of caring teachers
and smaller class sizes, our pastoral care is strong and effective.

We seek to provide a personalised approach where each student is guided and
supported on their individual pathway through secondary school. We cater for
students on both academic and vocational pathways. Students going into Year 11
next year will be provided with opportunities to complete their Queensland
Certificate of Education (QCE) by the end of Year 12. Students desiring to
pursue tertiary studies will also gain an Overall Position (OP). Students in
Year 11 will have exciting opportunities to study subjects both on campus and
through Inquisify, a shared campus arrangement with Groves Christian College in
Brisbane.

Chinchilla Christian College provides a strong educational service to families.
Offering the Australian Curriculum founded on a distinctively Christian world
view, the college caters for a variety of student learning needs. Our
educational program is enriched with a wide range of co-curricular activities
that facilitate the further development of individual student strengths and
abilities. We are passionate about supporting our young people to be all they
can be.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TCN


                    Copyright 2016 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              647 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             June 8, 2017 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SURVEY:  HIGH SCHOOLERS LIKELY TO AVOID DEBT;
STUDENTS EMBRACE COMMUNITY COLLEGES

BYLINE: Tim Grant, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 542 words


High school students who grew up during the Great Recession and likely saw their
parents ride out financial struggle are showing a greater tendency to save for
college, avoid debt, and embrace attending two-year community colleges and
vocational schools, according to the latest survey by the College Savings
Foundation.

Sophomores, juniors and seniors across the country surveyed by the Washington,
D.C.-based foundation in its eighth annual "How Youth Plan to Fund College"
survey are targeting schools that will lead them to careers while keeping costs
in check. They also appear to be relying less on loans and scholarships as
opposed to their own savings and expectations for working through college.

"We are pleased to see this year's high school students demonstrate a strong
appetite for making responsible cost-effective choices," said Richard Polimeni,
chairman of the College Savings Foundation. "This bears out the emerging profile
of Generation Z students as financially careful and risk averse."

Gen Zs are young people born during the mid- to late-1990s.

Mr. Polimeni said student debt has been a growing concern nationally, now
standing at an all-time high of $1.3 trillion.

"A lot of students are seeing their parents struggle to pay off their own
student loans," he said. "They've also lived through the recession and seen
their parents have a tough time making ends meet. The way they are assisting is
by being more responsible financially and taking more responsibility for their
own college costs."

Part of that financially responsible mindset involves embracing all kinds of
education - from traditional four-year colleges and universities to community
college and vocational schools.

Over the last several years, the survey has tracked an increase in students
planning to attend community college, and this year it showed a jump of 5
percentage points from 20 percent to 25 percent.

Among those surveyed, 44 percent are choosing public college; 18 percent private
college; and more than 6 percent are choosing vocational school or career
programs.

Nearly half of all students - 49 percent - had already saved between $1,000 and
$5,000; more than one-quarter - 27 percent - had saved more than $5,000.

In addition, 54 percent have gotten jobs to earn money for higher education; and
85 percent planned to work during college, with 20 percent planning to work
full-time.

Reluctance to take on debt was a recurring theme, with 69 percent saying they
were concerned about loans.

This year's survey showed a drop among students who planned to take on debt, to
11 percent from 21 percent last year. The number of high school students who
would "possibly" take on student loan debt also dropped to 63 percent from 71
percent. Those planning to take financial aid dropped to 49 percent from 56
percent last year.

Researchers found that parental modeling counts. Just over 70 percent of those
students who were primarily saving for college in tax-advantaged 529 plans had
parents who are doing so, too.

"We are seeing great engagement between students and parents, and that
conversation is helping them be more responsible," Mr. Polimeni said. "Also,
there is a modeling effect. The students look at their parents saving money and
they model that behavior."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Tim Grant: tgrant@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1591.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              648 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday

Ambedkar varsity plans colleges for skill development

SECTION: DELHI

LENGTH: 1086 words


NEW DELHI: Ambedkar University Delhi (AUD) will start community colleges to
impart vocational skill development courses in Delhi and undergraduate degrees
for working professionals. This was announced by the vice-chancellor, Shyam B
Menon, while speaking about the plans for the university once it shifts to its
campuses in Rohini and Dhirpur.

The new campuses will also increase the intake of the university to 7,500 - both
at undergraduate and postgraduate level. However, the campuses will be ready
only by 2020-21. Citing the university as an example of successfully
implementing the choice based credit system since its start, Menon however said
that the scheme can be successful only if "credit allocation is uniform" across
universities.

The university is at present functioning from its temporary Kashmiri Gate
premise. Government has granted two plots of land - Rohini (17 acres) and
Dhirpur (50 acres) - around 12 kilometres between the two. According to Menon,
both the campuses are expected to be ready by 2020-21.

"After the campus is ready we will start community colleges with focus on
vocational skill development. Under this the university will have centres all
over the city and it would be networked classrooms. This will give undergraduate
degrees for those people who are already working but it would have focus on
vocational courses," said Menon.

As a pilot project under the community college it will start with the employees
of the university with around 40-50 students. They can earn credit and if they
can complete the credit they would get the degree/ certification.

Stating that in principle the CBCS is beneficial to students and that AUD has
been following the system since its start. "It may not be in specific
stipulations as outlined by the University Grants Commission, but we are doing
this and by and large it matches with the present proposal." said Menon.

Menon however said that for this system to work credit allocation needs to be
uniform. "If units of credit are different then it won't work," cautioned Menon.

New Delhi: Rising temperatures could not deter aspirants from flocking to the
eight centres of Delhi University to fill offline OMR forms. Although they had
the option to register online, over 9,000 students turned up to collect the
forms for undergraduate admissions. Online registration is still on and general
category applications have crossed the one lakh mark on Monday.

A total of 43,379 offline forms were sold till Monday and a total of 21,185
submissions made. SGTB Khalsa, Rajdhani and Shyam Lal colleges continued to get
the bulk of the crowd. In fact, at SGTB Khalsa college in North Campus the crowd
continued to grow and on Monday, a total of 2,519 forms were sold and 2,506
received.

"The issue is that many of these students have already registered online and it
is wastage of time, energy and money. We also found that there were some who had
made mistakes while registering online and were, therefore, filling the OMR
forms," said a senior official at the dean of student's welfare office.

Most of the candidates filling the offline forms were from Delhi and its
neighbouring areas as majority students from states like Assam, Bihar, Odisha,
Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal chose to register online. Till 5pm on Monday the
total number of online registrations were 2,67,999, of which 1,66,035 had paid
their fees. Total number of general category applications were 1,06,637, while
OBC registrations were 38,382.

New Delhi: Be it the classic dilemma of choosing between the best-reputed
college and one's favourite course or doubts over which course one should go
for, there was an answer to every question at The Times of India's Mission
Admission seminar. Aspirants got to know that there's more to choose from than
traditional careers and that there's a need to think beyond Delhi University.

Candidates also got a chance to meet students from different campuses who shared
their experiences at Gyaan Zone, introduced for the first time at Monday's
seminar. The two-day seminar will conclude on Tuesday.

The 2015-16 edition of Mission Admission was conducted at . Speakers from
different colleges like SRCC and Stephen's as well as experts interacted with
students and parents, responding to queries and clarifying doubts. Tuesday will
include sessions on overseas education and careers in design.

Speakers told students how to go about choosing a course and career options
available in it. They urged them to take a seat in the first college available.
With every list, the student will find he has more options, even the freedom to
switch colleges.

When it came to choosing between a course and a college, the emphasis was firmly
on the first. Malay Neerav, joint dean, Students' Welfare, said: "It doesn't
make a difference which college you get your undergraduate degree from but the
course you do will matter. Always follow your interest and pursue what you like.
College will get over in three years but the course you do will stay with you
forever." It's also better to get a general undergraduate degree than go for a
programme that restricts your options, like geology or law, if one's unsure
where one's heart lies.

Gyaan Zone was a panel of students from different universities - DU, BML Munjal
University, Maharishi Dayanand University and SGT. College aspirants approached
them with ECA and sports quota queries. The panel also took college-specific
queries.

S K Garg, principal, Dean Dayal Upadhyaya College, said, "If a student has an
interest in more than one course, they should choose the one that has a broader
scope. The possibility of doing post-graduation in that subject is then higher,
since fewer seats are available at the postgraduate level."

Many were doubtful about how to calculate the best-of-four and some asked if
they can apply for bachelors in a subject they did not study in Class XII. Some
worried that, if they already took admission in a college and found that they
met the cutoff for the same subject at a more reputable college at a later
stage, they would not be able to withdraw and re-apply on time. These doubts
continued to linger even after being addressed in Open Day sessions at DU.

For the anxious and the confused, Parveen Malhotra, a career counsellor, had the
final word. She said, "There are so many career options available on today's
date that one need not worry about what to do in life. There are no safe
careers. One will do well in life if they follow their interest."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              649 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           September 30, 2016 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

MORE STUDENTS SHY AWAY FROM FOUR-YEAR COLLEGES;
SKYROCKETING COSTS HAVE HIGH SCHOOL GRADS LOOKING FOR ALTERNATIVES

BYLINE: Tim Grant, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 972 words


High school students have become so mindful of financial planning for college in
recent years that many who are academically eligible to attend a traditional
four-year college are choosing to minimize their cost by enrolling in two-year
community colleges instead.

"I've been a guidance counselor for 12 years now and there is absolutely a
growing trend where students are much more financially responsible," said Matt
Anselmino, a guidance counselor at Shaler Area High School. "Students are asking
themselves if the investment in a traditional four-year education is going to
outweigh the debt they incur."

For last year's graduating class at Shaler Area High School, the most popular
choice for higher education among its 380 grads was Community College of
Allegheny County North, followed by the University of Pittsburgh's main campus,
Duquesne University and Robert Morris University, Mr. Anselmino said.

With Americans owing $1.3 trillion in student loan debt spread out among 43
million borrowers, the issue of reducing college-related debt became a lightning
rod topic early in this election cycle that helped drive Democratic presidential
candidate Bernie Sanders' popularity among millennial voters.

The rising cost of college and the likelihood of being burdened with debt is
causing more students to take a closer look at how they could benefit from
community college or a trade school education, according to a report by the
Washington, D.C.-based College Savings Foundation.

Nearly one third - 28 percent - of parents interviewed by the foundation earlier
this year said their high school children had considered not attending college,
with the leading reason being that they did not want student debt.

In 2015, 17 percent of parents had said their students were shying away from
four-year colleges.

"Interestingly, parents and students are looking at alternative strategies to
simply attending a single four-year institution straight out of high school,"
said Mary Morris, chairman of the College Savings Foundation and CEO of Virginia
529 in Richmond, Va. The CSF is a nonprofit organization that helps families
reach their education savings goals by working with policy makers and financial
services executives to support education saving programs.

"We find more people are focused on lifelong learning, not just earning a
four-year degree," Ms. Morris said. "They want a high-quality certificate, such
as a six-month training course right out of college that allows them to do some
type of technical job in fields like optics or computers."

Ms. Morris said community colleges are driving innovation in higher education
because they are in contact with employers in their areas and developing
programs that meet industry needs.

According to the Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Agency, the projected
cost of attending college for one year in the year 2030 will be $40,000 to
$60,000 for a four year public college and $92,000 to $130,000 for a private
college. According to the College Board, the average cost of a community college
in 2016 is $3,440 compared to attending a four-year private college this year,
which averages $32,410.

However, the payoff for a college education has historically been worth the
trouble of attaining it. The U.S. Department of Education reports the median
earnings of a bachelor's degree holder is $56,700 a year or $2.3 million over a
lifetime, which is 31 percent higher than workers will earn with an associates
degree and 74 percent higher than those with just a high school diploma.

The College Savings Foundation found top ranked strategies that families plan to
use to help reduce the cost of higher education were to attend community college
and then transfer to a four-year college, and to attend a state school rather
than a private college. Among students who had to change their higher education
choice due to costs, 65 percent are choosing community college and 21 percent
are choosing a vocational or career school.

Maureen Shaw, a middle school and high school counselor in the Clairton School
District, said the cost is always a factor in the decision-making of the
students she works with.

"A four-year college degree seems to have always been the prize students shoot
for. However, we are trying to present the students with other options to show
that attending a four-year institution isn't the only path for them to succeed
in life," said Ms. Shaw, who was recently named high school counselor of the
year for the state of Pennsylvania.

"We have them look at projected job outlook and we are finding there is a huge
need for occupations that only require a two-year degree or certification, such
as physical therapy assistant, engineering technician or radiology technician,"
she said.

"We want students to look at where their strengths lie, job availability
factors, living wages and consider all those things in their career development
path."

Ms. Shaw said 33 percent of last year's graduating class at Clairton High School
attended two-year colleges and 15 percent reported attending four-year college.
The rest were either undecided or did not report their status.

Ms. Morris of the College Savings Foundation said about one-third of parents of
high school students and about one-third of the students themselves are saving
for higher education in 529 plans, which are education savings plans operated by
state or educational institutions which have tax advantages that help families
set aside money for college.

However, 44 percent of parents still plan to borrow for their children's
education. While three quarters of students are worried about paying back loans,
71 percent said they would borrow money for college.

The College Savings Foundation survey also showed that 25 percent of the parents
of high school students are still paying off their own student loan debt.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Tim Grant: tgrant@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1591.

GRAPHIC: CHART: College Savings Foundation; James Hilston/Post-Gazette: Families
strategize to reduce cost of college in 2016

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              650 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

                           November 29, 2014 Saturday

How useful are financial planners? Depends who you ask

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 783 words


TORONTO * Good financial advice can be hard to find, but does every Canadian
really need to hire their own financial planner? Everyone has some form of
assets and liabilities, but it's the complexity of their personal balance sheet
that should be a determining factor, says Moshe Milevsky, an associate professor
in finance at the Schulich School of Business at York University. If your
financial situation is as simple as putting aside money for retirement and
aggressively paying off your mortgage, there's not necessarily a need to bring
in another party, he said. However, for many Canadians, going solo on your
financial future probably isn't worth the risk, suggested Eric Kirzner, a
professor of finance at the Rotman School of Management in Toronto.

"I do like the idea of avoiding an adviser, but I'm still in the old-fashioned
camp of leaving that for a person who knows enough about finance," he said. In
an ideal world, every Canadian would take a college or university course to
broaden their knowledge of personal finance, Kirzner said. "They would learn how
to pick less-expensive investment products that do the same things as other
products," he said. "They'd avoid certain types of investments that financial
advisers love to sell which are more in their interest than their client's
interest." For example, some exchange-traded funds cost less to operate than
mutual funds that do the same thing, Kirzner said. Some structured products with
guarantees can be replicated with stocks and treasury bills that have a combined
lower cost structure. However, getting Canadians enthused about their finances
is an uphill battle. "A lot of people spend less time choosing a financial
adviser than they do researching the purchase of a new vehicle," said Greg
Pollock, president and CEO of Advocis, an organization that represents Canadian
financial advisers and planners. "That new vehicle loses value when you drive it
off the lot. When you're choosing a financial adviser you're choosing someone to
assist you with your financial management for maybe the next 20 to 30 years."
Beginning the hunt for an adviser can be one of the hardest steps, but a little
preparation can go a long way. Consider that anyone can label themselves a
financial planner, which means that paying attention to their credentials is
essential. Not all advisers are alike and, depending on their certification,
they can offer a variety of services. One of the most important designations to
look for is CFP, or certified financial planner, listed after their name which
means they adhere to the international standards that include continuing
education to maintain their certification. Other designations recommended by
Pollock include the Chartered Life Underwriter (CLU) for estate planning,
Certified Health Insurance Specialist (CHS) and the Chartered Financial
Consultant (CFC) which has advanced training in wealth accumulation and
retirement planning. Advocis hosts a handy resource for Canadians looking to get
some traction in their hunt for an adviser: www.ouradviser.ca.The website covers
many of the basic questions that can get the wheels rolling, and provides search
engine to gather a list of advisers in your area. Once you've selected a few
candidates, Pollock suggests writing a list of questions with your specific
needs in mind. Ask the advisers about their investment philosophies, how they
perceive your financial needs, and from there gauge whether you feel they're
attuned to your expectations. If their answers don't feel right to you, look for
a different person to work with. "You should ask, as a client, how your
financial adviser is paid," Pollock said. "Not only that, it should be disclosed
in writing." Financial advisers generally make their money through either
commissions or hourly service rates. Both have their pros and cons, and
depending on how much money you're planning to invest, you might find that one
of the options better suits your goals. For example, an adviser's flat fee may
run $500 to $1,000 to craft a financial plan or they may charge an hourly rate.
However, if you're only investing $10,000 it would probably make more sense to
pay an annual fee of one per cent or commission-based fees. If your assets are
much higher then a flat fee might sound like a more reasonable approach. While
commission-based advisers are commonplace, some have levelled criticism on their
approach, suggesting they come to their clients with a bias for certain
investment products with a higher payout. Pollock suggests that isn't
necessarily the case, and that a good financial planner will take a more
professional approach. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2014 Times &; Transcript (Moncton)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 The Times & Transcript.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              651 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Business Mirror (Philippines)

                            October 26, 2014 Sunday

PIDS report reveals 35% dropout rate among SGP-PA state scholars

BYLINE: Cai Ordinario

LENGTH: 472  words


AROUND 35 percent of those who dropped out of the Students' GrantsinAid Program
for Poverty Alleviation (SGPPA) were uninterested in pursuing tertiary
education.

This was stated in a policy note titled "How Should IncomeBased Grantees in
Tertiary Education be Chosen?" authored by Philippine Institute for Development
Studies (PIDS) consultant Denise Valerie Silfverberg.

Silfverberg said that because of this, there is a need to refine the selection
process of choosing grantees of tertiarydegree programs in the future.

"The selection process needs to be refined to efficiently allocate the financial
assistance to the targeted population. The program should aid those who are
financially constrained but should focus on those who have the least ability
constraints. The best available tool for gauging this would be admission exams,"
Silfverberg said.

Silfverberg said the SGPPA's primary criteria for eligibility is if the
potential grantee is a recipient of the Conditional CashTransfer  Program and if
there is no college graduate in the family.

The study also stated that academic merit was not considered when choosing the
beneficiaries except for highschool completion.

However, the study showed that 139 students who dropped out of the program for
various reasons. The highest number of dropouts was recorded at 39 at the
Cordillera Administrative Region.

There were 12 reasons the students dropped out and three of them accounted for
35 percent of the dropouts who cited lack of interest, preference to work and
academic difficulties.

Silfverberg said this indicated that the chosen grantees were simply unprepared
for tertiary education.

Other reasons for dropping out included pregnancy, health issues, familial
obligations, behavioral issues, homesickness and even cultural change
experienced through relocation.

Apart from ensuring the overall readiness of scholarship grantees, there is a
need to increase scholarship funds and improve the delivery of stipends to
scholars.

"A number of grantees who have dropped out have indicated their intention to
return to university and finish their degrees. Most of these grantees were those
who had unplanned pregnancies and those who had financial difficulties due to
the delayed release of stipends," Silfverberg, however, said.

The SGPPA supports students unable to afford tertiary education. The program was
implemented in academic year (AY) 2012 to 2013 and will be expanded to 36,000
students from 4,000 students in AY 2014 to 2015.

The total grant amounts to P60,000 per academic year per student. The amount
covers tuition, textbook support, and stipend or living expenses for the
grantees.

The government extends P10,000 per semester for tuition and other fees; P2,500
per semester for textbooks and other learning materials; and P3,500 per month
for 10 school months as stipend.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 Business Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              652 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            Business World (Digest)

                            October 26, 2010 Tuesday

More students than ever seek to stay on;
More Stay On

LENGTH: 249 words



HIGHLIGHT: Third level graduates are choosing to continue with their education
in greater numbers than ever rather than emerge onto the labour market, a survey
of 2009 graduates at a major college has revealed.


Third level graduates are choosing to continue with their education in greater
numbers than ever rather than emerge onto the labour market, a survey of 2009
graduates at one of the country's largest Institutes of Technology, Limerick
Institute of Technology, has revealed.

According to the 'First Destinations Report', compiled by the Careers Service at
LIT, 17pc of honours degree students (639) at LIT in 2009 continued to
post-graduate education. This is almost three-times the figure (6pc) in 2007.

The survey of over 800 graduates in 2009 also revealed that 73pc of 2009 Level 6
(Higher Certificate) and Level 7 (Degree) graduates progressed to further
studies at the Institute. The highest rate of progression onto further education
was in Level 6, with 82pc of Higher Certificate graduates continuing onto degree
courses.

The First Destinations Report also revealed that 67pc of graduates who did not
continue education at LIT in 2009 secured employment or further study
opportunities, such as post-graduate education and 47pc proceeded directly into
employment, down from 72pc in 2008. LIT's graduate employment figure is 2pc
above the national average for third level institutes/universities. "One of the
key findings, and it was no great surprise to us given the employment market
difficulties, was that students are choosing to stay in education in record
numbers today, rather than before when they entered the labour market at an
earlier stage," said LIT Careers Officer Joanne Holland.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Media World Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              653 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            Business World (Digest)

                            October 26, 2010 Tuesday

More students than ever seek to stay on;
More Stay On

LENGTH: 249 words



HIGHLIGHT: Third level graduates are choosing to continue with their education
in greater numbers than ever rather than emerge onto the labour market, a survey
of 2009 graduates at a major college has revealed.


Third level graduates are choosing to continue with their education in greater
numbers than ever rather than emerge onto the labour market, a survey of 2009
graduates at one of the country's largest Institutes of Technology, Limerick
Institute of Technology, has revealed.

According to the 'First Destinations Report', compiled by the Careers Service at
LIT, 17pc of honours degree students (639) at LIT in 2009 continued to
post-graduate education. This is almost three-times the figure (6pc) in 2007.

The survey of over 800 graduates in 2009 also revealed that 73pc of 2009 Level 6
(Higher Certificate) and Level 7 (Degree) graduates progressed to further
studies at the Institute. The highest rate of progression onto further education
was in Level 6, with 82pc of Higher Certificate graduates continuing onto degree
courses.

The First Destinations Report also revealed that 67pc of graduates who did not
continue education at LIT in 2009 secured employment or further study
opportunities, such as post-graduate education and 47pc proceeded directly into
employment, down from 72pc in 2008. LIT's graduate employment figure is 2pc
above the national average for third level institutes/universities. "One of the
key findings, and it was no great surprise to us given the employment market
difficulties, was that students are choosing to stay in education in record
numbers today, rather than before when they entered the labour market at an
earlier stage," said LIT Careers Officer Joanne Holland.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Media World Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              654 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            Business World (Digest)

                            October 26, 2010 Tuesday

More students than ever seek to stay on;
More Stay On

LENGTH: 249 words



HIGHLIGHT: Third level graduates are choosing to continue with their education
in greater numbers than ever rather than emerge onto the labour market, a survey
of 2009 graduates at a major college has revealed.


Third level graduates are choosing to continue with their education in greater
numbers than ever rather than emerge onto the labour market, a survey of 2009
graduates at one of the country's largest Institutes of Technology, Limerick
Institute of Technology, has revealed.

According to the 'First Destinations Report', compiled by the Careers Service at
LIT, 17pc of honours degree students (639) at LIT in 2009 continued to
post-graduate education. This is almost three-times the figure (6pc) in 2007.

The survey of over 800 graduates in 2009 also revealed that 73pc of 2009 Level 6
(Higher Certificate) and Level 7 (Degree) graduates progressed to further
studies at the Institute. The highest rate of progression onto further education
was in Level 6, with 82pc of Higher Certificate graduates continuing onto degree
courses.

The First Destinations Report also revealed that 67pc of graduates who did not
continue education at LIT in 2009 secured employment or further study
opportunities, such as post-graduate education and 47pc proceeded directly into
employment, down from 72pc in 2008. LIT's graduate employment figure is 2pc
above the national average for third level institutes/universities. "One of the
key findings, and it was no great surprise to us given the employment market
difficulties, was that students are choosing to stay in education in record
numbers today, rather than before when they entered the labour market at an
earlier stage," said LIT Careers Officer Joanne Holland.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Media World Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              655 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                              June 6, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

More school leavers move to higher study

BYLINE: SARAH-JANE COLLINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 219 words


ALMOST half of all 2010 Victorian high school graduates are studying for a
degree, with the number of higher education students from disadvantaged
backgrounds continuing to rise. But the number of students deferring further
study is also up, from 9.8 per cent in 2010 to 10.3 per cent this year, the
Victorian government's On Track data shows. The On Track survey, which charts
the study and work choices of Victorian school leavers each year, shows the
number choosing to go on to further study continues to increase, with 75.5 per
cent choosing university, TAFE or vocational training. A total of 49.5 per cent
of students are studying for a bachelor degree at university or TAFE, the
highest figure since data collection began in 2003. A total of 36.7 per cent of
graduates from disadvantaged backgrounds went on to study for a degree, up 4.7
percentage points on 2009's school leavers. Toorak's Loreto Mandeville Hall had
the most students continuing to a degree, at 93 per cent. Deferral rates have
risen considerably since 2004, when 6 per cent of students chose not to go
straight to further study. Most deferring students nominated a desire to earn
money or have time off from studying, with many regional students saying
financial reasons had forced their deferral, Higher Education Minister Peter
Hall said.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              656 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Fiji Times (Australia)

                              April 4, 2008 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Students advised to plan career paths

BYLINE: SALOME VINAKADINA

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 294 words


Secondary school students have been challenged to find a niche if they are to
secure a career in life.

Twenty four exhibitors from tertiary institutions, ministries and private
organisations including embassies were at the Latter Day Saints College in
Tamavua yesterday to help students choose their career paths.

Senior Education officer Kailash Rajput said the two-day Careers Expo organised
by the Ministry of Education targeted the nine schools within the Central
Division.

Mrs Rajput said during the careers expo which started yesterday, students were
able to identify subjects to take when moving over to tertiary education.

"We are encouraging school principals to bring in their Form Four students
because it will help them a lot in choosing their subject combinations as they
move on to Form Five next year," she said.

Mrs Rajput said the opportunity was for students and parents.

"Parents need to attend this career expositions and get to discuss what career
paths their children have to take as they move on to upper forms and also
choosing a subject that will go with the career path the child plans to take up
in life.

"It is something that requires partnership which means both parents and the
child have to work together in choosing the child's subject combinations since
parents are the ones who pay for the child's school fees."

She said there are plans to also stage similar events for schools in the Western
and Northern divisions hopefully next term.

Nimati Qionimua Fatai, a Form Six student and the Headboy of Nabua Secondary
School said attending the careers expo broadened his mind and gave him a fair
idea of what subject combination to take at tertiary level.

Nimati takes Tech Science studies and hopes to work as an electrician or police
officer.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FIJ


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              657 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Fiji Times (Australia)

                              April 4, 2008 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Students advised to plan career paths

BYLINE: SALOME VINAKADINA

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 294 words


Secondary school students have been challenged to find a niche if they are to
secure a career in life.

Twenty four exhibitors from tertiary institutions, ministries and private
organisations including embassies were at the Latter Day Saints College in
Tamavua yesterday to help students choose their career paths.

Senior Education officer Kailash Rajput said the two-day Careers Expo organised
by the Ministry of Education targeted the nine schools within the Central
Division.

Mrs Rajput said during the careers expo which started yesterday, students were
able to identify subjects to take when moving over to tertiary education.

"We are encouraging school principals to bring in their Form Four students
because it will help them a lot in choosing their subject combinations as they
move on to Form Five next year," she said.

Mrs Rajput said the opportunity was for students and parents.

"Parents need to attend this career expositions and get to discuss what career
paths their children have to take as they move on to upper forms and also
choosing a subject that will go with the career path the child plans to take up
in life.

"It is something that requires partnership which means both parents and the
child have to work together in choosing the child's subject combinations since
parents are the ones who pay for the child's school fees."

She said there are plans to also stage similar events for schools in the Western
and Northern divisions hopefully next term.

Nimati Qionimua Fatai, a Form Six student and the Headboy of Nabua Secondary
School said attending the careers expo broadened his mind and gave him a fair
idea of what subject combination to take at tertiary level.

Nimati takes Tech Science studies and hopes to work as an electrician or police
officer.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FIJ


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              658 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Fiji Times (Australia)

                              April 4, 2008 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Students advised to plan career paths

BYLINE: SALOME VINAKADINA

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 294 words


Secondary school students have been challenged to find a niche if they are to
secure a career in life.

Twenty four exhibitors from tertiary institutions, ministries and private
organisations including embassies were at the Latter Day Saints College in
Tamavua yesterday to help students choose their career paths.

Senior Education officer Kailash Rajput said the two-day Careers Expo organised
by the Ministry of Education targeted the nine schools within the Central
Division.

Mrs Rajput said during the careers expo which started yesterday, students were
able to identify subjects to take when moving over to tertiary education.

"We are encouraging school principals to bring in their Form Four students
because it will help them a lot in choosing their subject combinations as they
move on to Form Five next year," she said.

Mrs Rajput said the opportunity was for students and parents.

"Parents need to attend this career expositions and get to discuss what career
paths their children have to take as they move on to upper forms and also
choosing a subject that will go with the career path the child plans to take up
in life.

"It is something that requires partnership which means both parents and the
child have to work together in choosing the child's subject combinations since
parents are the ones who pay for the child's school fees."

She said there are plans to also stage similar events for schools in the Western
and Northern divisions hopefully next term.

Nimati Qionimua Fatai, a Form Six student and the Headboy of Nabua Secondary
School said attending the careers expo broadened his mind and gave him a fair
idea of what subject combination to take at tertiary level.

Nimati takes Tech Science studies and hopes to work as an electrician or police
officer.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FIJ


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              659 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Fiji Times (Australia)

                              April 4, 2008 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Students advised to plan career paths

BYLINE: SALOME VINAKADINA

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 294 words


Secondary school students have been challenged to find a niche if they are to
secure a career in life.

Twenty four exhibitors from tertiary institutions, ministries and private
organisations including embassies were at the Latter Day Saints College in
Tamavua yesterday to help students choose their career paths.

Senior Education officer Kailash Rajput said the two-day Careers Expo organised
by the Ministry of Education targeted the nine schools within the Central
Division.

Mrs Rajput said during the careers expo which started yesterday, students were
able to identify subjects to take when moving over to tertiary education.

"We are encouraging school principals to bring in their Form Four students
because it will help them a lot in choosing their subject combinations as they
move on to Form Five next year," she said.

Mrs Rajput said the opportunity was for students and parents.

"Parents need to attend this career expositions and get to discuss what career
paths their children have to take as they move on to upper forms and also
choosing a subject that will go with the career path the child plans to take up
in life.

"It is something that requires partnership which means both parents and the
child have to work together in choosing the child's subject combinations since
parents are the ones who pay for the child's school fees."

She said there are plans to also stage similar events for schools in the Western
and Northern divisions hopefully next term.

Nimati Qionimua Fatai, a Form Six student and the Headboy of Nabua Secondary
School said attending the careers expo broadened his mind and gave him a fair
idea of what subject combination to take at tertiary level.

Nimati takes Tech Science studies and hopes to work as an electrician or police
officer.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FIJ


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              660 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2017 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                 November 2017

                                 IMG Education

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
URL: www.img-education.com

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   IMG Education is a member of the IMG Group of companies. IMG Immigration &
Citizenship is the first and the leader in Vietnamese Migration to Canada and
the United States, Saint Kitts and Nevis, UK, Belgium, Austria, Switzerland,
Australia and New Zealand, Hong Kong and Singapore. Our highly dedicated staff
together with our lawyers is committed to the success of each and every client.
Operating since 2003, IMG has helped hundreds of clients successfully settle
abroad.  IMG Education has been working with the CEC (Canada Education
Committee) and the Canadian Embassy in Vietnam to promote schools and education
fairs since 2005.  IMG Education represents many Colleges and Universities in
Canada such as Upper Canada College, Havergal College, Branksome Hall, York
University, Seneca College, Humber College, Vancouver Community College, Niagara
College, International Language Schools of Canada, Greystone College, College of
the Rockies, Capilano College and the Calgary Board of Education.  To teach
their children the necessary skills for an ever-changing world, many parents are
choosing private school education. Enriched Academic Opportunities, Smaller
Classes, Dedicated Teachers, A Safe Environment, Extracurricular Activities, and
a Customized Learning for Each Student are some of the reasons why parents are
choosing to give their children the unique experience of private school and why
it's worth the financial investment.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2017


                              661 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Times-News (Twin Falls, Idaho)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 7, 2007 Wednesday

Steep decline in spring '07 enrollment at CSI

BYLINE: Joshua Palmer, The Times-News, Twin Falls, Idaho

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 566 words


Feb. 7--TWIN FALLS -- Enrollment at the College of Southern Idaho is down almost
6 percent -- the largest decline in more than a decade.

The last time the college saw a decline was in 2005, and it was a mere 1
percent.

Student head count includes the number of full- and part-time students enrolled.

CSI officials say they do not know why enrollment is down, but said it isn't
across the board.

"A study of the numbers indicates that enrollment in certain key areas at CSI is
still growing in spite of the downturn," said CSI President Jerry Beck in a
press release. "Most notably, the number of nursing and other health science
students is up."

CSI officials say declining enrollment at other Idaho colleges and universities
suggests that prospective students are not choosing to go elsewhere. They say
it's likely that students are choosing to delay their education because the job
market is strong.

"I think blaming declining enrollment on the economy is really kind of a
knee-jerk reaction," said Doug Maughan, public relations director at CSI. "But
it really is a big question that we wrestle with any time we see this."

When asked if the college will take any action to reverse the decline, Maughan
said some of those actions may already be under way.

"We try to take proactive measures, and we have been more aggressive about
marketing the college," he said. "The Open House is something we are already
doing, and I think we plan on doing more things like this to help people
understand that this (continuing education) is something they can do."

That event is from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. today in the Taylor Administration
building. The open house will teach people about balancing work, school and
family, as well as the benefits of continuing education.

The question remains whether CSI can reverse a trend that many believe is caused
by a strong economy. And if unemployment continues to remain at a record low,
what will the college do to deal with fewer students Ã¢â[#x201a]¬-" and
therefore lower tuition revenue?

CSI officials say the college is continuously reviewing student interest in
certain programs, as well as each program's relevance to industry needs.

Beck told the Times-News in a previous interview that, "Any program we (CSI) had
that did not grow or retain student enrollment, we (CSI) closed down and then
moved those resources to other areas."

Technical programs experienced the greatest decline -- with almost a 9 percent
drop in student enrollment compared with spring 2006 -- while enrollment in
academic programs declined by 5.3 percent.

Times-News writer Joshua Palmer covers education. He can be reached at
jpalmer@magicvalley.com or at (208) 420-0526.

An open house

The College of Southern Idaho is holding an open house today from 5:30 to 7:30
p.m. in the Taylor Administration building.

The purpose of the open house is to provide more information to future students
and to those who are thinking about continuing their education.

For more information call CSI Student Activities at 732-6221.

2007 -5.9%

2006 2.6%

2005 -1.1%

2004 1.8%

2003 -0.4%

2002 16.1%

2001 2.3%

2000 12.1%

Copyright (c) 2007, The Times-News, Twin Falls, Idaho Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Business News. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070207-TW-0207-Steep-decline-in-spring-07-enrollment-at-CSI

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TW


                           Copyright 2007 Times-News


                              662 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           February 16, 2006 Thursday

Fall in history and classics no bad thing, says minister

BYLINE: John Clare Education Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 480 words


A SHARP fall in the number of university applicants wanting to study such
"non-vocational'' subjects as history, philosophy, classics and fine art was "no
bad thing'', Bill Rammell, the higher education minister, said yesterday.

He was commenting on statistics showing that the impending rise in university
fees to pounds 3,000 a year had caused the first drop for eight years in the
total numbers applying.

"There is some evidence that students are choosing subjects they believe will be
more vocationally beneficial to them,'' said Mr Rammell, who read French and
politics at University College, Cardiff.

"If that's what they are doing, I don't see it as necessarily a bad thing.''

Ucas, the university application service, said there had been a fall of 3.4 per
cent - nearly 13,000 - in the overall number of students applying for higher
education courses starting this autumn.

The sharpest drop, 4.5 per cent, was among those living in England, who will be
hardest hit by the introduction of top-up fees.

However, that has to be set against a rise in applications of 9.7 per cent last
year as students who might otherwise have taken a gap year chose instead to
avoid the higher fees and save themselves more than pounds 5,000 over a
three-year course.

Among the non-vocational subjects over which Mr Rammell shed no tears,
applications to study history fell by 7.8 per cent, classics by 8.5 per cent and
fine art by 11.4 per cent. Philosophy applications, however, fell by 3.9 per
cent, only slightly above the average.

The minister's claim that students were choosing more vocationally beneficial
subjects was supported by rises of 15.4 per cent in nursing, 7.4 per cent in
social work, 11.5 per cent in maths and 9.6 per cent in pharmacology.

However, there were falls of 10.3 per cent in computer science, 7.3 per cent in
mechanical engineering and 18.6 per cent in electronic and electrical
engineering.

The National Union of Students, which campaigned against higher fees, said the
overall drop showed that fear of debt and confusion about the new system were
deterring students.

Sean Lang, a teacher and honorary secretary of the Historical Association, said
the minister's remarks about non-vocational subjects were "very short-sighted''.

Timothy Williamson, Wykeham professor of logic at Oxford University, said:
"Philosophy teaches you how to detect bad arguments, so it is no surprise when
politicians are not keen for it to be studied.''

Boris Johnson, the Tory higher education spokesman, said: "A lot of people will
be nervous that the Labour Government is going down the drab utilitarianism
route of Charles Clarke.''

In 2003, Mr Clarke, the then education secretary, was accused of philistinism
after reports that he described medieval historians as ornaments and suggested
that their departments did not deserve state funding. He later said his words
had been misinterpreted.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              663 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                           The Chronicle (Australia)

                      June 14, 2005 Tuesday Final Edition

Year 10 a time for choices

BYLINE: The Chronicle

SECTION: A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 312 words


YEAR 10 is a time when students reach the top of the high school hierarchy.

But it is also a time when they have to choose a secondary college or do a
trade.

Calwell High School Year 10 student Luke Wallace is a keen football player.

Playing sport and going to university are Luke's considerations when choosing a
college.

"They also have to do deep communications stuff," he said.

Andra Griffin wants to become a fashion designer.

When looking for a college, she will assess the classes which are offered and
the proximity to work.

Narrabundah College principal Steve Kyburz said students must make an informed
choice when choosing a college.

"Students need to research their schools and think about their own futures," he
said.

"Years 11 and 12 are very individual for students and performance in those
courses determine their Year 12 Certificate result.

He said students should also familiarise themselves with the three types of
courses offered at college which were tertiary, accredited and vocational.

Applications close for government colleges on July 27.

Catholic Education Office spokesman Dennis Sleigh said Catholic schools offered
a different model to government schools as classes for Years 7 to 12 were held
at the same school.

"This model allows enhanced links across the whole of secondary schooling and
enables a smooth transition into the senior years," Mr Sleigh said.

He said that in June each year, Year 10 students and their parents spoke to
teachers about Years 11 and 12.

"Students need to consider those subjects that they feel positive about -rather
than limiting their choices to subjects that are seen as being more
prestigious," Mr Sleigh said.

He said when selecting subjects, students should also consider more than one or
two career options.

For further information about Catholic schools in Canberra contact 62345455.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2005 The Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty
                                    Limited


                              664 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Business Day (South Africa)

                                January 26, 2006
                              Business Day Edition

MBA students overlook rankings in choice of school, says survey

BYLINE: Sue Blaine

SECTION: EDUCATION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 470  words


MBA students overlook rankings in choice of school, says survey

Education Correspondent

A BUSINESS school's place on a ranking table is no longer the main criterion
students use in choosing an institution's Masters of Business Administration
(MBA) programme, an international survey has shown.

For the first time, traditional school rankings did not top the list of key
factors considered by 4000 aspiring MBA students when choosing a business
school, said Nunzio Quacquarelli, director of the World MBA Tour, which
organises conferences worldwide on the sought-after degree.

This new attitude comes on top of growing scepticism of the rankings among
business schools themselves and a decision by two of the US's ivy league schools
- Harvard Business School and the University of Pennsylvania's The Wharton
School - to boycott the rankings.

"There seems to be a growing disillusionment with traditional ... rankings among
both students and schools," Quacquarelli said.

Business schools in SA and abroad have raised concerns that the rankings compare
very different programmes as if they were alike, and that the methodology used
is often changed from year-to-year and, in the words of Wharton's dean Patrick
Harker, is "severely flawed".

"In some ways, we - along with many of our peer institutions - have allowed
rankings to define us, not only to the outside world, but also to ourselves. It
is folly to distil all that makes an individual school unique into a simple
rank. There is no such thing as a number one school," Harker said.

Prof Frank Horwitz, director of the University of Cape Town's Graduate Business
School and deputy president of the South African Business Schools' Association,
said SA's business schools shared Harker's concern about the methods used to
compare business schools.

"The business schools have different strengths and capabilities, it would be
more beneficial to show what these are," he said.

Prof Nick Binedell, director of the University of Pretoria's Gordon Institute of
Business Science said the rankings were particularly distorted in SA, which had
only a few business schools, all of which operated quite differently.

Quacquarelli said the survey revealed students considered the school's
reputation the most important criterion, followed by what jobs graduates
secured, return on investment, what financial aid was available and the school's
specialisations. Only then did ranking come into play.

Horwitz said South African schools were finding it hard to justify the time
spent on securing a good place in the rankings compared with time spent actually
running the institution.

"It is not that business schools are shying away from competing. We do compete,
but a ranking system has only one winner and it would be more beneficial to the
marketplace to show what our differences are, " he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              665 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday

Varsity placement is KYUEM's priority

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 532 words


KOLEJ Yayasan UEM places the utmost importance on helping its students gain
entry into universities of their first choice.

Deciding on a university in a foreign country where students will spend at least
three years is an important task.

At KYUEM, 95 per cent or more pursue their studies overseas upon completion of
their A-Levels in June every year.

A majority of students go to some of the best and most prestigious universities
in the UK and Ireland while a smaller number enrol at top-notch universities in
Australia, New Zealand and US. There is a huge choice and each has its own ethos
and atmosphere.

Some are small and have a very strong corporate or brand identity; others are
large with very complete facilities and offer a very rich variety of different
cultural experiences. Some such as Oxford and Cambridge consist of individual
colleges and each may have quite a different feel.

A student will have to choose from hundreds of different courses, which differ
widely in content, style and teaching method.

It is tempting to apply to what may be regarded as the best universities but it
may be important also to consider some practical issues. London, for example, is
very exciting but also a very expensive place.

Most universities however provide accommodation for International students at
least for the first year of their studies.

Without proper guidance, choosing a university overseas can be extremely
stressful.

Presentations, workshops and mock interviews are organised to get students to
start their research work, choose universities and write the personal statement
- a vital part of the application form.

A dedicated team comprising the counsellor, in-house staff, tutors and teachers
assist students in the counselling process.

Professional advice is also sought from organisations that have considerable
experience in university applications, and placement (for example, the Malaysian
British Educational Co-operation Services, or MABECS).

Special attention is given to interview techniques for those applying to study
medicine and for universities like Oxford and Cambridge where the interview is a
compulsory part of the selection process.

As a result, a large proportion of KYUEM's graduates move on to their university
of choice. This is well illustrated by the college's successful Cambridge and
Oxford entries.

This year has seen the college break it's previous record as seven of its
students were admitted into Oxbridge colleges in September 2005 - two more than
in 2004.

Since it's establishment in 1998 the college has had at least a 90 per cent
success rate in placing its students in the top 10 UK universities and the Irish
Universities Medical Consortium.

The popular universities among our students are Imperial College, London School
of Economics, University College, London, King's College, University of
Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Southampton, Warwick, Manchester,
Sheffield, Newcastle, Nottingham and Irish Universities of Medical Consortium.

Students have a choice of choosing between enrolling in a 18 month programme
commencing in January, the 24 month programme in July or another 18 month
programme also in July. For details, call 03-6460 1234.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


                              666 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Dickinson Press (North Dakota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             April 21, 2013 Sunday

Judicial system in Greenwood family's blood

BYLINE: Bryan Horwath, The Dickinson Press, N.D.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 882 words


April 21--Jay Greenwood had a plan when he was younger. The Dickinson attorney
originally planned to enter medical school.

Though his father and grandfather were both attorneys, Jay said he hadn't given
a legal career much thought, instead choosing to attend the University of North
Dakota to study biology with an eye toward becoming a doctor.

"We were always around it growing up, but I never really thought about becoming
a lawyer," Jay said. "I even took the MCAT (Medical College Admission Test). I
remember calling my dad and he was telling me that the LSAT was on a certain
day, so I decided to take it."

Jay's father is Dann Greenwood, a Dickinson native and newly elected Southwest
District Court judge. Following what Jay and Dann referred to as "the call," the
younger Greenwood started down a path that eventually led to him becoming a
public defender, working out of the state's Dickinson office.

Dann insists that, if anything, he leaned toward his son choosing a different
career path than his own.

"I remember it well," Dann said. "Jay called me and said 'I don't want to go to
med school.' I asked him what he wanted to do because, although I've enjoyed
practicing law, there are a lot of easier ways to make a living. I kind of
suggested he explore something else."

It wasn't long before Jay was on his way to following in the footsteps of his
father and grandfather, Lawrence "Larry" Greenwood, while attending Lewis &
Clark Law School in Portland, Ore.

"I remember he told me that (the LSAT) was on a certain day and that I could
still sign up for the test," Jay said. "I don't think I even studied for it. I
decided to go out to Portland because, at the time, I was interested in
environmental law, but I found out there were people way more gung ho about
environmental law."

With attorney positions difficult to come by when Jay graduated from law school,
he decided to take a clerkship under former Southwest District Judge Allan
Schmalenberger back in his hometown. Seven years ago, Jay took a position as a
public defender, offering legal representation to those who can't afford to hire
a lawyer, and he hasn't looked back.

"I like what I do," Jay said. "I think if you talk to the majority of public
defenders, they would say they do it out of necessity because that's the job
available to them, but I like it. I don't know if I'm a crazy person because of
that, but I like that I'm busy. There's new stories every single day and I enjoy
representing people who can't afford attorneys."

Though Larry died in 1991, after nearly 40 years of operating a family law
practice in Dickinson, his legacy is alive and well. After graduating from the
University of North Dakota's law school in 1977, Dann joined the practice his
father and uncle, the late Mark Greenwood, started in the early 1950s.

When former Southwest District Judge Patrick Weir announced his retirement last
year, Dann -- at the prompt of many, including Jay -- decided to run for the
seat, defeating Stark County State's Attorney Tom Henning in the 2012 election.
A little more than three months into his new gig, Dann said he's busy, but
enjoying his role.

"When you're an attorney, there's pressure to do your job well because a lot
rides on it," Dann said. "But there's no pressure in the sense that you just
make the best argument for your client and that's it. When the judge makes his
decision, the lawyer isn't responsible for that decision. As a judge, on the
other hand, you're making life-and-death decisions for people. That's a lot of
weight."

As he stated at his investiture program at the Stark County Courthouse in
January, Dann said a person shouldn't worry about any decision as long as he or
she believes the right one was made.

"The way I've always looked at it is to have the same philosophy as I've had my
entire life," Dann said. "If you do your best and if you make the decision that
you think is right, then it shouldn't be all that stressful."

Though they spend a lot of time in the same building, one thing Dann and Jay
won't ever do, they said, is face off in court. In accordance with state
Judicial Ethics Advisory Committee rules, Dann said he does not preside over
cases where Jay is involved.

"Nothing has really changed for me since he became a judge," Jay said. "Even if
those rules weren't in place, I think (Dann) would go to the ends of the earth
to make sure there was no appearance of impropriety. People have said, 'Hey,
that's great that your dad is the judge,' but I don't think they understand
that, even if he did preside over one of my cases, I think I would probably get
the short end of the stick. But that's something that would never happen
anyway."

With his son and grandson thriving in the legal profession in the city where he
built his reputation as an outstanding attorney, one would think Larry would be
looking down smiling, but Dann joked that might not be the case.

"My father would turn over in his grave about the idea of me being a judge,"
Dann said. "He had kind of a disdain for judges. He was a trial lawyer and he
used to say, 'If you're not for me, you're against me.'"

More from around the web

___ (c)2013 the Dickinson Press (Dickinson, N.D.) Visit the Dickinson Press
(Dickinson, N.D.) at www.thedickinsonpress.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130421-QX-Judicial-system-in-Greenwood-family-s-blood-0421-20130421

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QX


                       Copyright 2013 The Dickinson Press


                              667 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 13, 2015 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

The new threat to the NHS: 'over-diagnosis';
UK's top medical colleges launch a campaign against doctors doing too much for
their patients

BYLINE: CHARLIE COOPER HEALTH CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 730 words


Most doctors will tell you that their greatest fear is missing something;
looking back and realising that they didn't do enough to save a life, or prevent
a terrible outcome for their patient.

But the greater risk to a greater number of patients - and even, some say, to
the future of the NHS as well - may come from exactly the opposite: doctors
doing too much.

This week, the country's leading medical organisations are embarking on a
campaign to stop doctors "over-treating" patients, amid increasing evidence that
many routine procedures and prescriptions are not only unnecessary and wasteful,
but may well be doing harm.

The Choosing Wisely programme - inspired by similar endeavours in the USA,
Canada, Germany and Australia - will see medical colleges drawing up lists of
procedures that expert opinion now suggests should not be used routinely, if at
all.

Doctors will be asked to ensure patients are fully informed about the potential
risks of their treatment, and patients will be encouraged to challenge doctors'
decisions.

There is growing evidence that patients are being over-diagnosed and
over-treated for a wide range of conditions including prostate and thyroid
cancers, asthma, and high blood pressure.

Writing in the BMJ today, doctors argue that the heart of the problem is a
culture of "defensive medicine" - with doctors willing to try every test or
treatment at their disposal rather than be accused of negligence for or of
missing a warning sign. Biased reporting of the benefits of drugs in medical
journals, and NHS payment systems that reward the amount of work doctors do,
rather than the quality, also contribute, they write.

The initiative is backed by the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges, which
represents the 20 royal colleges and faculties of the UK and Ireland.

Dr Aseem Malhotra, a cardiologist who is consultant clinical associate to the
Academy, told The Independent he believed over-diagnosis and over-treatment was
"the greatest threat to our healthcare system". "We have an imbalance," he said.
"An over-medicated population with unhealthy lifestyles. Unless we deal with it
now the NHS will go bankrupt - there's no doubt about it."

"Overwhelmingly doctors go into medicine because they want to do well by
patients and if defensive medicine didn't have any harms it wouldn't be such a
problem - but it does cause harm," he said.

For example, evidence from the respected Cochrane Group has suggested that
giving medication to people with slightly higher blood pressure than normal -
currently common practice - does not reduce risk of heart attacks or strokes,
but does lead to side effects in a small proportion of patients, he said.

Health watchdog the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence estimated
earlier this year that 30 per cent of people diagnosed with asthma actually show
no clear evidence of the disease - potentially meaning hundreds of thousands of
people are receiving unnecessary treatment.

All drugs have potential side effects, so unnecessary prescribing on this scale
carries major risks for many patients, even if the individual risk of developing
problems is small.

The problem of over-diagnosis has also been raised this week by the leading US
surgeon and health commentator Atul Gawande. Writing in The New Yorker, he said
that screening for breast, thyroid and prostate cancer has led to hundreds of
thousands more people being treated, with only a "tiny reduction" in deaths.

WRONG PRESCRIPTION

PROCEDURES TO QUESTION

Britain may follow the example of Canada, where the Choosing Wisely scheme is
already well underway. Leading medical organisations there have included the
following procedures among "things physicians and patients should question":

* Use of antibiotics for chest infections where a virus is the likely cause

* Chest X-rays and electrocardiograms for patients at low risk of heart disease

* Use of CT scans in minor injury cases or for children with suspected
appendicitis

* Active treatment of localised, low-risk prostate cancer

* Cancer tests for patients who have already had cancer, where there is no
expectation that early detection of recurrence could improve their survival
chances

* Chemotherapy for some patients with advanced cancer

THE CAMPAIGN IN FIGURES

20

Medical colleges and faculties back the 'Choosing Wisely' campaign

30%

of people diagnosed with asthma show no evidence of having the disease

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              668 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                            November 2, 2012 Friday

Arabic popular for 2nd-language test

BYLINE: By Yun Suh-young

LENGTH: 383 words


More students are choosing Arabic as their second foreign language option for
the national scholastic aptitude test.

According to the Korea Institute for Curriculum and Evaluation, around 40
percent of students selected Arabic as their option for a second foreign
language in the College Scholastic Ability Test this year.

A total of 668,527 students applied for the national college entrance exam and
of those, 90,277 chose to take a second foreign language test as an option. Of
the foreign language applicants, 36,000 chose to take the Arabic language test.

The national CSAT will be held next Thursday.

The main reason students select Arabic as their second foreign language choice
is because it is easier to score higher on the test than other languages.

The markings made after last year's CSAT showed that the average score of Arabic
language test was 80 points out of 100, higher than the average for Japanese at
66 points.

'Because the language is rather unfamiliar to Koreans, fewer students take the
test compared to other languages. So if we study just a bit, it's easy to get a
good score on the exam because it is graded on a curve,' said a second-year high
school student surnamed Kim.

Because of this advantage, many students are transitioning from other languages
to Arabic.

The percentage of students who take the Arabic language test is increasing every
year.

The rate of students taking Arabic out of eight foreign language options was at
15 percent in 2008 but jumped to 29 percent in 2009, 42 percent in 2010 and
nearly reached 46 percent in 2011.

Arabic was included as a second language option in the national college aptitude
test in 2005. At that time only 531 students, which didn't even account for 0.4
percent of the total foreign language applicants, applied to take the Arabic
language exam.

However, even if more students are choosing the language as their test option,
many have difficulty learning Arabic properly as there aren't many channels from
which they can learn the language.

There is currently only one high school, Ulsan Foreign Language High School, in
the entire country that teaches Arabic properly.

There aren't even many private academies that professionally teach Arabic, so
students resort to expensive private tutoring from Arabic-majoring university
students.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              669 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            August 20, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

What's nexy?;
Students across Wales will be opening their GCSE envelopes today, with a wealth
of opportunities open to them. But for those who don't make the grade, plotting
a course can be tough. Whatever your situation, Bethan Lloyd Owen, a
Bangor-based careers adviser at Careers Wales, has the answer

SECTION: APPOINTMENTS;NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1171 words


Q: What are the main options available to me after I get my results? A: The main
options are sixth-form, further education in college, getting a job,
apprenticeship or other workbased training. Some young people may also think
about starting their own business.

Q: What if I haven't got the grades I wanted? A: Don't panic! Whatever your
results, there is always something you can do. A wide range of courses are
available to suit all interests and abilities at school or college, or you could
consider a work-based training course and get qualifications and experience on
the job.

Q: How important are GCSEs - and do I need to re-sit? A: Re-sitting may be
important if you want to study at A-level or Level 3, such as BTec National
Diplomas or NVQ Level 3; you will usually need a minimum of four or five GCSEs
at grades A*-C or equivalent for entry. GCSEs are important as they become the
basis of your future education and employability, demonstrating your academic
ability and your suitability for a higher level course, training or a job.

An alternative if you haven't got A*-C grades at GCSE is to take an
intermediate/Level 2 qualification at college.

Q: How big is the jump from GCSE to a higher level course such as an A-level or
national diploma? A: A-levels and national diplomas are Level 3 courses;
therefore, the work will be harder than at GCSE, which are Level 2 courses.
However, you will be studying fewer subjects than at GCSE and this gives you
more time to concentrate on the work.

As there is more emphasis on independent learning, it's important that you are
motivated and use your free time effectively to succeed. It's important to
research in the courses to make sure they are the right choice for you.

Q: Sixth-form or college - what's the difference? A: Sixth-form and college both
offer 16 to 19-year-olds the opportunity to undertake further education.
Choosing sixth-form means you will be in a familiar, school-based environment
which might suit some people.

The age range for students is up to 19. Further education colleges are usually
bigger and offer a wider range of vocational courses and you may be studying
alongside adults. Depending on the courses you choose to take and their local
availability, it might be possible to combine your studies at both school and
college.

Q: I am keen to go to university - what is the best way to get there? A: You can
gain entry qualifications for university in a variety of ways. Taking A-levels
is the traditional route and still a good choice, or you could take a vocational
course such as a BTec National Diploma or NVQ Level 3. Taking the Welsh
Baccalaureate may give you an advantage. You can also go to university following
completion of a Level 3 apprenticeship.

Q: When should I start looking at universities and higher education courses? A:
It's never too soon, it's important to consider all options available to you and
researching these now is a good idea.

By choosing what route you want to take, for example a particular course at
university, you can ensure that you choose the right A-levels or other Level 3
course such as a BTec National Diploma, which are necessary for entry and will
be beneficial for your university course.

Q: Is it worth getting a part-time job while I'm studying? A: Yes, as long as it
doesn't interfere with your study time, a part-time job is a good way of
learning new skills and earning extra money while you study. Choosing a
part-time job which is relevant to your chosen career path will give you a taste
of working in that sector and will provide you with valuable work experience and
skills when you come to apply for a course or a job after leaving education.

Q: Is work experience worthwhile? A: Any experience is very worthwhile as
prospective employers value a CV that shows you have used your spare time,
including weekends and term holidays, wisely to gain practical onthe-job
experience that could benefit their business.

Doing work experience or volunteering will boost your employability skills which
are increasingly important current, challenging job market.

Q: The academic or vocational route - how do I know which is best for me? A:
Think about what you enjoy doing - do you enjoy study and research or do you
prefer to be hands-on? The vocational route could take you along a variety of
career paths, ranging from accountancy to hairdressing, providing you with
practical onthe-job experience.

On the other hand, your strengths might be in more academic work such as
studying and research. Courses such as A-levels or other Level 3 qualifications
might therefore suit you better.

Q: I'm not sure what I want to be and I'm keen to keep my options open. With
this in mind, what subject/ type of course should I take? A: Start by thinking
about what you like doing, your interests and what you are good at. Also talk
your ideas over with friends and family as they could help you discuss the best
path for you or talk to a careers adviser. As a general rule, it's a good idea
to choose the subjects/courses that you enjoy and are good at if you are unsure
so as to get the best grades possible. A broader range of subjects can also keep
your options open when you start to decide on your career path.

Q: I've had enough of full-time education - what can I do instead? A: There are
lots of work-based training routes on offer which provide you with valuable
qualifications at the same time as practical, often paid, experience in real
work situations.

Apprenticeship vacancies can be viewed on the Apprenticeship Matching Service,
available on www.careerswales.com, in addition to information and advice on
workbased learning.

Q: I'm still a teenager - why do I need to think about my career now? A: It's
important to think about the longer term impact of your ideas. This decision
could affect your career path and certainly how you spend the next few years of
your life so it's crucial to get it right and to think in detail about what you
want for your future before making any decisions.

If you have a career in mind, research the entry requirements carefully. Make
sure you know the level of course you will need to achieve.

Find out if any specific subjects or courses are required.

Q: I'm not sure what to do next? A: The first thing to say is don't panic! It's
quite normal to feel confused by the huge range of options and information
available. To help you sort t your way through all the information, contact
Careers Wales and also talk your ideas over with friends and family as they
could help you discuss the best path for you.

Also start by thinking about what you like doing, your interests and what you
are good at.

Q: Where else can I go to for help? A: For independent information and advice
regarding the wide variety of education, training and employment options
including a database of courses, job and apprenticeship vacancies visit
www.careerswales.com - you can also use web chat to talk to a careers adviser.
Alternatively, call Careers Wales on 0800 0284844 or email post@careerswales.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Take time out to relax after you get your exam results, but there are
difficult choices ahead <B

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              670 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             January 3, 1994 Monday
                                  Late Edition

Finding the `right' university for you

BYLINE: Dean Ashenden, Sandra Milligan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1883 words


In this excerpt from their book, Dean Ashenden and Sandra Milligan offer
guidelines for choosing a tertiary institution that suits you.

THERE is no such thing as a university that is good for everyone. A good
university for you is one that suits in a number of ways: it will let you in; it
has a course of the kind and quality that you want; it prepares you for a good
job or jobs; it allows study in ways that suit you; it has the right style and
"feel"; the town or area around it allows you to make ends meet; and it gives
you the right kind and level of intellectual and personal stimulation and
challenge. Each of these aspects of a university and its courses needs to be
checked out.

A good university for you is one that will let you in. A lot of people thinking
about going to university believe that some universities are "hard" to get into
and others "easy". That view is not altogether wrong but things are often not so
black-and-white. You've got a lot more chance of finding something that will
suit you if you understand just how complicated the whole business is.

Although most universities still want to know your "score" before they'll let
you in, every university will let in some people in other ways. There are often
up to five or six special schemes for adults; for people from disadvantaged
backgrounds or from special groups (Aborigines for example); for those
transferring from other universities (in Australia and from overseas); for
holders of qualifications from TAFE or other non-university credentials; and for
those who can show that they have appropriate knowledge and skills developed
from their work or elsewhere.

What's more, once you've got in, most universities will let you move from one
course or faculty to another. If you have your heart set on law or engineering
at Sydney or Melbourne or Adelaide but haven't got the score you'd hoped for,
you can often get into arts or science or education and possibly transfer to the
course you really want after a year or two. What you need to look for is not a
university that's hard or easy to get into, but one that has an entry scheme
that will give you the best chance in your chosen course.

A good university is one that has the right course for you. Australian
university students typically make very poor choices of courses and
universities, for the following reasons.

First, they stay at home. Less than one in 10 Australians moves out of state to
go to university, a figure very much lower than in the United States or some
European countries. The result is that Australian students typically have to
choose from whatever happens to be locally available, a very much narrower
choice than is available across the entire country. Happily, this Australian
tradition seems to be changing at last, with steep increases in recent years in
the number of out-of-state applications for univeristy courses.

Second, they rely on "the score". There is an awful temptation to apply for the
course which has a cut-off score close to what you got or hope to get. There is
the crazy idea that if you don't do this you're "wasting marks". Don't believe
it. The best course you can get is the one best for your interests, plans,
abilities, personal needs, beliefs _ not the course that comes next on a very
artificial pecking order.

Third, Australian students tend to pick "the one true course". It is not unusual
to hear people gearing up for university who are quite fixed (and have been for
a long time) about which institution they want to attend and what course they
want to do. It's a particularly common attitude among those who think they'll
score well enough to get into one of the high-prestige courses in one of the
high-prestige institutions. It just has to be medicine at Melbourne or law at
Sydney, or the world will fall in.

Here are some reasons for not choosing your university and courses in any of
these ways: First, you might not be able to get into that one course, and
forever after anything else will seem like second best.

Second, you might get into the course you'd fixed on or that had the highest
cut-off you could manage _ and it will turn out to be the wrong course for you.
One of the sad results of poor choosing is a very high first-year drop-out rate.
In just about every course in every university in the country, at least one in
four of those who start the first year don't finish it. This is rarely because
the course is too hard; it is often because it's the wrong course for the
student.

Third, starting off focused on the local institution or "the best" within reach
ignores the fact that even the biggest university with the widest possible range
of courses has only a fraction of the courses available across the country.

Fourth, there is a similar problem starting off focused on one kind of course.
Even where you are sure you want to do arts and you know that LaTrobe has an
arts faculty, you can't assume that that is the right or the best one for you.
Arts courses have the same name, but not the same contents; they will differ in
the specialisations available, in the curriculum offered, in student-staff
ratios and in many other ways. The same will be true in just about any area you
can think of.

Finally, the best starting point for choosing is to look closely at courses, not
institutions, and the best way to get a course that's right for you is to look
at plenty of them before you choose.

A good university or course is one that will get a job that suits you.

Universities do vary quite a lot in the kinds of jobs and salaries they can
deliver, and courses vary even more. A good university (and university course)
is one that gets you the kind of job you want.

If you are still at school, think hard about whether you really want to go
straight on to university. It's the conventional thing to do, of course, and
probably others at your school are intending to go straight on. But you've been
studying for 12 years. Do you really want to study for 15, 16 or 17 years in a
row? Students who take time out often make better university students.

A good university for you is one that lets you study in a way which suits you.
There are very big differences in being a student in most arts courses as
compared to most science courses. In arts you may have only seven or eight hours
a week in class, and often they are lectures where you just sit there, perhaps
with hundreds of others. Most science students, though, will spend at least half
of their time (and perhaps up to 35 hours a week) in practical classes, and
being in the lab is an altogether different thing from sitting in a lecture.

Likewise, there are big differences between what is demanded by different
universities. A recent review of the way in which Australian universities teach
accounting found that they teach it in very different ways. Students taking
accountancy at the Univeristy of Southern Queensland in 1989, for example, spent
21 hours a week in class, but at the University of Tasmania accountancy students
put in only 12.7 hours.

So, when you are choosing a course and a university you are also choosing a
particular quality of student life.

Second, you can study through "distance education" (DE), often called "external
studies". The basic idea is that the course comes to you rather than the other
way about. Australia has one of the most extensive and accessible distance
education systems in the world, and there is a great deal of variety in the way
they work.

So far we have emphasised careful choosing between universities and university
courses. But do you really want to go to a university? Will you be able to get
into a university? Will you be able to get into a university course in the area
that suits your talents and interests? If you have any doubts in any of these
areas you should take time out to look at the TAFE option.

In a way the label TAFE is misleading, because under this single name is an
extraordinarily varied mixture of courses and colleges. TAFE provides education
and training in almost everything for just about everybody, from basic literacy
tuition to diploma programs which can be as lengthy and challenging as
university courses and are usually organised in subject areas very like those of
universities. Over the next year or two the number of places in these courses is
likely to increase much more quickly than the number of university places.

TAFE colleges also offer distance education courses, sometimes called off-campus
studies. In Victoria, for example, there are 18 TAFE colleges that offer courses
which you can study at home. There is only a limited number of these courses
available but you can start most of them at any time of the year. They provide
the same qualifications as you would receive if you studied full-time on campus.
It is also possible to mix on-campus and off-campus studies. Some off-campus
units may require some time in a classroom situation. TAFE also provides
part-time evening classes for people who work during the day and wish to pursue
studies for promotion and skills enhancement.

The range of courses offered at each college differs, but specific courses are
usually the same statewide. So in many cases if you miss out on a course in one
college, but are offered a place at another college, you will still be enrolling
in the course of your choice _ only the college will be different. You can
usually apply for more than one course and to more than one college. This
increases your chances of being accepted into your preferred area of interest.

Many people think of TAFE as second-best. In fact in some levels of study TAFE
and university courses are very similar. At other levels they are very
different. A TAFE course can open up a new route into university study later on
if you decide that that is what you want.

TAFE courses (particularly at the diploma and associate diploma level) are now
being accepted as prerequisites to continuing studies at the university level
and, in an increasing number of cases, for credit towards a university course.
In some cases a TAFE qualification is accepted effectively as the first two
years of the university degree and you need only complete the third year. In
effect TAFE and universities offer two parts of a single course or study
pathway.

The type of qualification you get when you finish your course depends on the
course, its entry requirements and years of study. TAFE has certificate,
advanced certificate, associate diploma and diploma courses to qualify people
for all kinds of jobs.

The total fees and student amenities costs at TAFE are considerably less than at
university, where HECS plus student fees total $2600 or more per year. If a
course you want to do at university level can be completed partly as an
associate diploma at TAFE you could save about $4000 in you first two years of
study.

Financial assistance is available to TAFE students, and depends upon income,
age, home and employment situation and course of study. The main types of
allowances available are AUSTUDY, ABSTUDY, and formal training allowances which
are available to young people who undertake special courses approved by the CES.

Dean Ashenden and Sandra Milligan are co-authors of the `Good Universities Guide
1994' which is published by Reed Books Australia and available from newsagencies
and bookshops.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1994 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              671 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                            South China Morning Post

                                  July 2, 2005

Homework on college is important

BYLINE: Stephanie Harrington

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 335 words


Choosing a university is a serious business and prospective students should do
their homework to ensure their chosen institution helps them develop into well
-rounded individuals.

Professor Richard Ho Yan-ki, dean of undergraduate education at the City
University of Hong Kong, and Dr Albert Chau Wai-lap, dean of student affairs at
the University of Hong Kong, share some tips.

Think hard about the future. Do you want a professional career in accounting or
engineering, for example, or is your degree a stepping stone to higher
education, such as a PhD?

If choosing a profession, ensure the university is a strong professional school
with international accreditation, giving you a greater choice of countries where
you can work.

Attend workshops or seminars offered over the summer at different universities
to learn more about the programme you're interested in applying for.

Examine the curriculum of the programme you want to study. Will it enhance your
development in subjects outside of your programme, such as cultural awareness
and communication skills? Can you gain expertise in other areas, such as
accounting and law? Employers like students with diverse backgrounds.

Does the university offer adequate support programmes to help you make the
transition from secondary school to university life?

Understand the mission and atmosphere of the university. What opportunities are
offered for development of the whole person outside of the lecture halls?

You can't study round the clock, so look at the university's extra-curricular
activities, such as sports, clubs or societies to see if they interest you.

Consider a university where you can live with complete strangers in a students'
hall: it adds another dimension to your student life.

Check if the university offers exchange programmes to experience other cultures
and languages.

Make sure you have the opportunity to apply the knowledge you've learned through
summer internships or apprenticeships.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 2005 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                              672 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Imphal Free Press (India)

                            April 10, 2013 Wednesday

Edu - Xpo, a giant leap towards Higher Education

LENGTH: 895 words

DATELINE: IMPHAL


IMPHAL, April 10 -- A student's life after 12th standard is full of choices when
it comes to building a career, thus stranded in a crossroad they are full of
dilemma. Which course or which college to choose is one of the toughest
decisions one had to take. Again, lucrativeness of the career and job prospects
also plays an important role in decision making. This crucial phase affects
their life many years down the line.

Therefore, with the vast increase in the number of career options available
nowadays, students need to figure out what all are the courses available, which
colleges provide which courses, which field suits them the best among all the
fields they are good at, how much it all cost, what about the future prospects,
etc. Students need to evaluate their interests, skills, strengths, potentials,
advantages and weaknesses. Some students already decide their careers even
before they enter class 10 which might not be the best career for them as they
are not exposed to and are unaware of the other opportunities out there, thus
missing out what would actually have been best suited for them. Many follow the
herd mentality influenced by their peers and simply follow trends. Just because
someone else took the course or their parents want them to take up a course,
students should not go for it. Choosing the right career is very important for
an individual. An individual spends a considerable amount of time doing his job,
so loving one's work becomes important for personal and professional
satisfaction and happiness. Some follows their line of interest even though they
came from a different academic career.

At such a turning point, education fair comes as a help and rescue from all such
dilemmas. Education fair represents one of the most efficient ways of meeting
large numbers of renowned Institutions and Universities which assists students
through their representatives in choosing the right field. Delegates from Top
Universities will be present, for ON -THE - SPOT Offers, interactions,
counseling and admission. Student queries about courses, facilities, placements,
activities, hostel, scholarships, loans etc., will be fully acknowledged.
Reference materials regarding programs, admission procedures, etc would be
displayed. Basically, the purpose of such education fair is to,

Bring students and parents face-to-face with representatives from various
accredited and recognized Colleges, Universities and Institutes

Gather valuable information about potential Institutes

Discuss future plans directly with the delegates

Ask questions about college, admissions, academic programs, etc.

Save all your time and headaches

Eliminate wastage of energy by coordinating with multiple different Universities

Provide and highlight the most up-to-date and relevant educational programs
available today

Provide guidelines, counseling and a forum for adults to make informed decisions
of their future education endeavors

Institution and University profile distributed to all fair-goers

Provide one-on-one opportunities for Students, Parents, Guardians, Career
Guidance and the General Public to gather available Career opportunities in
India and overseas.

It is the one of the efficient means of promoting higher education in Manipur.

It promotes Tourism Industry in a wider scale and we get an honor to showcase
Manipur from a larger point of view across the Country.

Thus, Education fair in a nut shell serves both i.e., the Student Community, the
Education Provider and the law maker.

Edu- XPO is a great platform organized by LRSINDIA that primarily aids in the
development and advancement of the educational sector of the state of Manipur.
Held twice a year since 2010, this time it is scheduled to be held in Nupi Lal
Complex in Imphal on 8-10th April 2013 and 9th & 10th June 2013 from 10 am
onwards till 6 pm.

By way of this event, along with the education sector, the overall economic
improvement initiative of the state of Manipur will get a positive direction. It
offers a great opportunity to the law makers to get candid feedback on new
strategies that they are planning to implement for the betterment of the
educational sector of the region. The event also helps the attendees to connect
with each other and gather relevant information about various educational
institutions not only from India but also overseas under one roof. Participated
by representatives from renowned Universities all over India, it is the biggest
and most sought after education expo of Manipur. It brings together all
students, parents and government agencies related to education in one platform.
Edu-Xpo also offers a great opportunity to the exhibitors to explore the market
and enhance their business opportunities. This event will play a major role in
curbing the outflow of young talents from Manipur to other states of India by
way of bringing to the fore the development plans that the state is trying to
devise in order to give better education as well as employment to the youth.

(Dr.L.Robindro Singh is the CEO of LRS Pvt Ltd, an Events & Exhibition
Management Service. The views expressed in the article are his own and do not
reflect IFP's view or opinion.) Published by HT Syndication with permission from
Imphal Free Press. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Imphal Free Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              673 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          Berkhamsted & Tring Gazette

                             January 4, 2015 Sunday

Education Eye: Crucial that subjects play to your strengths

BYLINE: Catherine Stoker, Director Of The Independent Education Consultants

LENGTH: 319  words


Are you in year 11 and starting to consider future sixth form subject choices?

This is an important part of preparing for year 12 in September 2015, especially
if embarking on a change of school at this stage.

Sixth form offers opportunities to either continue subjects you have studied at
GCSE or to embark on new ones. Choosing the right subjects in the right
combination to ensure your ability to make a strong application to university or
other pathway to higher education can be tricky.

From September 2015 A levels are changing, so there are some important new
factors to consider in the way your chosen subjects are assessed. If your school
offers IB, choosing this over A levels is also an important decision.

Firstly you need to enjoy, feel motivated and inspired by the subjects you
choose in the sixth form. Review the content and the academic skills required
for each of the subjects you are considering. You must be interested in the
syllabus and feel confident that you have the required academic skills to do
well in it.

For example, some subjects require a lot of independent research and background
reading, essay writing, creative thinking, logic, maths skills, project work.
It's crucial that your subjects match your strengths.

Secondly, your combination of subjects must fit your career aspirations. Review
entry requirements for university courses via the UCAS website. Ensure you're
keeping your options open. If the subjects you need to fulfil career aspirations
don't match your strongest academic skills and interests, meaning you're
choosing subjects you find very difficult, consider changing your career
aspirations.

Seek guidance from your school and other advisers, but remember you need
commitment and motivation to work hard to achieve success in sixth form, so be
sure they're your subject choices and career ambitions and not those of friends,
relations or others offering helpful advice.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MCG2


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              674 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                       Buckingham and Winslow Advertiser

                             January 4, 2015 Sunday

Education Eye: Crucial that subjects play to your strengths

BYLINE: Catherine Stoker, Director Of The Independent Education Consultants

LENGTH: 319  words


Are you in year 11 and starting to consider future sixth form subject choices?

This is an important part of preparing for year 12 in September 2015, especially
if embarking on a change of school at this stage.

Sixth form offers opportunities to either continue subjects you have studied at
GCSE or to embark on new ones. Choosing the right subjects in the right
combination to ensure your ability to make a strong application to university or
other pathway to higher education can be tricky.

From September 2015 A levels are changing, so there are some important new
factors to consider in the way your chosen subjects are assessed. If your school
offers IB, choosing this over A levels is also an important decision.

Firstly you need to enjoy, feel motivated and inspired by the subjects you
choose in the sixth form. Review the content and the academic skills required
for each of the subjects you are considering. You must be interested in the
syllabus and feel confident that you have the required academic skills to do
well in it.

For example, some subjects require a lot of independent research and background
reading, essay writing, creative thinking, logic, maths skills, project work.
It's crucial that your subjects match your strengths.

Secondly, your combination of subjects must fit your career aspirations. Review
entry requirements for university courses via the UCAS website. Ensure you're
keeping your options open. If the subjects you need to fulfil career aspirations
don't match your strongest academic skills and interests, meaning you're
choosing subjects you find very difficult, consider changing your career
aspirations.

Seek guidance from your school and other advisers, but remember you need
commitment and motivation to work hard to achieve success in sixth form, so be
sure they're your subject choices and career ambitions and not those of friends,
relations or others offering helpful advice.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MCBW


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              675 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Tring Today

                             January 4, 2015 Sunday

Education Eye: Crucial that subjects play to your strengths

BYLINE: Catherine Stoker, Director Of The Independent Education Consultants

LENGTH: 319  words


Are you in year 11 and starting to consider future sixth form subject choices?

This is an important part of preparing for year 12 in September 2015, especially
if embarking on a change of school at this stage.

Sixth form offers opportunities to either continue subjects you have studied at
GCSE or to embark on new ones. Choosing the right subjects in the right
combination to ensure your ability to make a strong application to university or
other pathway to higher education can be tricky.

From September 2015 A levels are changing, so there are some important new
factors to consider in the way your chosen subjects are assessed. If your school
offers IB, choosing this over A levels is also an important decision.

Firstly you need to enjoy, feel motivated and inspired by the subjects you
choose in the sixth form. Review the content and the academic skills required
for each of the subjects you are considering. You must be interested in the
syllabus and feel confident that you have the required academic skills to do
well in it.

For example, some subjects require a lot of independent research and background
reading, essay writing, creative thinking, logic, maths skills, project work.
It's crucial that your subjects match your strengths.

Secondly, your combination of subjects must fit your career aspirations. Review
entry requirements for university courses via the UCAS website. Ensure you're
keeping your options open. If the subjects you need to fulfil career aspirations
don't match your strongest academic skills and interests, meaning you're
choosing subjects you find very difficult, consider changing your career
aspirations.

Seek guidance from your school and other advisers, but remember you need
commitment and motivation to work hard to achieve success in sixth form, so be
sure they're your subject choices and career ambitions and not those of friends,
relations or others offering helpful advice.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MHC4


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              676 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 26, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Is Freedom Just Another Word for Many Things to Buy?

BYLINE: By Barry Schwartz, Hazel Rose Markus and Alana Conner Snibbe.

Barry Schwartz is a professor of psychology at Swarthmore College and the author
of ''The Paradox of Choice: Why More Is Less.'' Hazel Rose Markus is a professor
of psychology at Stanford University. Alana Conner Snibbe is the senior editor
of the Stanford Social Innovation Review.

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-26-06: IDEA LAB;
Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1383 words


In today's America, everyone from President Bush to advertising executives to
liberal activists appears to agree that freedom is about having choices and that
having more choices means having more freedom. Choice, even in mundane matters,
embodies the larger ideal of the individual as arbiter not just of what tastes
or feels good but also of what is good. This is why we now regard 32 kinds of
jam in the supermarket, 50 styles of jeans in the department store and 120
retirement plans in the workplace as signs of both economic progress and moral
and political progress. Choice is what enables all of us to live exactly the
kind of lives we want to and think we should.

But this ''wisdom'' is suspect for two reasons. First, most Americans do not
think that freedom is about exercising more and more choice. And second, even
for those who do equate freedom with choice, having more choice does not seem to
make them feel freer. Instead, Americans are increasingly bewildered -- not
liberated -- by the sheer volume of choices they must make in a day.

As behavioral scientists, we have found that the people who frame freedom in
terms of choice are usually the ones who get to make a lot of choices -- that
is, middle- and upper-class white Americans (most of our study participants are
white; we can't make any claims about other racial and ethnic groups). The
education, income and upbringing of these Americans grant them choices about how
to live their lives and also encourage them to express their preferences and
personalities through the choices they make. Most Americans, however, are not
from the college-educated middle and upper classes. Working-class Americans
often have fewer resources and experience greater uncertainty and insecurity.
For them, being free is less about making choices that reflect their uniqueness
and mastery and more about being left alone, with their personality, integrity
and well-being intact.

Social class is difficult to measure -- it's a complicated amalgam of education,
income and occupational prestige -- but in the U.S.'s quasi meritocracy,
education has arguably become its most important facet. And so in our research
we often identify social class with education.

In a recent study with Nicole Stephens at Stanford University, we asked college
students to pick ''three adjectives that best capture what the word 'choice'
means to you.'' A higher percentage of those who had parents with a college
education said ''freedom,'' ''action'' and ''control,'' while more of those
whose parents had only a high-school education responded with ''fear,''
''doubt'' and ''difficulty.''

We also analyzed how freedom and choice are presented in one of our most
pervasive and influential cultural products: popular songs. In every region,
Americans with higher education and higher incomes typically prefer rock music
over country. We found that rock lyrics had a lot more talk of choice, control
and self-expression, as in the Rolling Stones' refrain, '''Cause I'm free to do
what I want any old time.'' But when we analyzed country music, preferred over
rock by less-educated Americans in every region, we heard more mentions of
self-protection and defense, as in Darryl Worley's observation, ''We didn't get
to keep [our freedom] by backin' down.'' When choice was mentioned, it was often
as a prelude or coda to tragedy, as in George Jones's lament ''Now I'm living
and dying with the choices I've made.''

Several experimental studies also show how these divergent conceptions of
freedom and choice shape working- and middle-class Americans' daily lives. One
set of studies used an approach common to many social-psychology experiments: an
everyday setting and a deliberately mundane task were exploited to reveal
significant psychological processes. Our researchers approached shoppers at
malls and airports and asked them to take part in a marketing study. The
researcher displayed five different black pens and invited the participant to
choose one to keep. Half the time, the participant then used the chosen pen to
answer a list of questions, including several about how much he or she liked the
pen. This was the ''choice'' condition. The other half of the time, after the
participant chose a pen, the researcher took it away, explaining: ''I'm sorry,
you can't have that pen. It's the last one of its kind that we have. Here, take
this one.'' The participant was then given another pen to answer the list of
questions. This was the ''no choice'' condition. True to our observation that
middle-class Americans have primarily positive associations with choice, we
found that among participants with at least a college degree, those who got to
choose their pen liked it more than those who were given a pen they hadn't
chosen. By contrast, participants who had less than a bachelor's degree liked
pens chosen by someone else just as much as they liked the pens they chose for
themselves.

In another alleged marketing study, we asked construction workers, firefighters
and maintenance workers, who had no more than a high-school diploma, and
students and employees with at least a bachelor's degree, to rank 10 recently
released CD's from least liked to most liked and to choose one of their
middle-ranked CD's as a gift for themselves.They then reranked the CD's after
making their choice. We found that the mere act of choosing a CD caused the
college-educated participants to like their gift CD more after choosing it than
they had before. On the other hand, those without a college degree did not like
their gift CD's more just because they had chosen them.

Another study that compared people in different occupations showed that those
employed in middle-class jobs got upset when a friend or neighbor bought the
same car as theirs because they felt that the uniqueness of their choice had
been undercut. But those in working-class jobs liked it when others chose the
same car because it affirmed that they had made a good choice.

In part because of the higher social status of middle-class Americans, the
equation of freedom with choice is the one most loudly broadcast. Every corner
of life is now rife with choices, as well as with talk of the control and
self-expression that choosing imparts. But is this middle-class conception of
freedom the ''right'' one? Empirical evidence suggests that we should be careful
what we wish for. Americans are increasingly overwhelmed by all these choices.
We feel less free now than when we had fewer choices, and we show it in our
behavior.

For example, Sheena Iyengar and Wei Jiang at Columbia University found that
giving people more 401(k) investment options makes them less likely to choose
one at all, even though by not choosing they pass up employers' valuable
matching funds. We see this result echoed in the panicked reactions of senior
citizens to the drug-plan choices they now face. And when people manage to
overcome paralysis and make choices -- even sound ones -- they are likely to be
plagued with doubt, worried that their choice was not the best one. So the
assumption that more choice means more freedom is false, at least as a general
rule. American society has given the educated elites what they have asked for,
and an increase in stress, anxiety and dissatisfaction has been a widespread
result.

What conception of freedom should Americans pursue? While the upper and middle
classes define freedom as choice, working-class Americans emphasize freedom from
instability. These perspectives echo the distinction between freedom to and
freedom from made by Franklin Roosevelt and by the philosopher Isaiah Berlin
half a century ago. For all our red-versus-blue rancor, most Americans agree
that ours is a free country. But what freedom is, and where it should be
nurtured and where constrained, are hotly contested issues.

Similarly, many of the freedoms endorsed and advocated by U.S. foreign policy
may not always resemble those desired by the people whom we hope to help. To
govern well, both at home and abroad, Americans would be wise to listen to how
freedom rings in different cultural contexts. Knowing that ''we love our
freedom,'' as President Bush said in his recent State of the Union address,
should be the beginning of a national conversation, not the end of it.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Martin Parr)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              677 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

Texas: First-year student found hope in pharmacist

LENGTH: 530  words

DATELINE: Austin


Texas A&M University, The State of Texas has issued the following news release:

For many, making a major career choice is not an easy decision. However,
choosing a career was not so difficult for David Guzman, a first-year
professional student pharmacist at the Texas A&M Health Science Center Irma
Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy. His drive for becoming a pharmacist was fueled
by his past. Growing up in an underserved population forced Guzman to see the
struggle that many had to receive proper health care services.

Growing up in Brownsville, Texas, he was close to his mother and stuck by her
side, going everywhere with her, but as the years passed, his mother's health
began to fade.
"When I was 11, my mother underwent a triple bypass surgery; soon after, doctor
visits became frequent due to her renal failure," said Guzman. "The appointments
were located 30 miles north in Harlingen, because Brownsville, at that time, was
greatly underserved in the medical field."

At the appointments, Guzman was often left in the dark about what was happening
with his mother's health.

Being young, clinic policies did not allow him to enter the patient room with
his mother. He was left in the waiting room until his mother was finished with
her appointment. Although he did not get to experience the interaction between
doctor and patient, his interests still piqued.

Unlike the clinic, the pharmacy allowed him to experience what helping a patient
was like. Guzman was able to see the help a pharmacist could provide any
patient. Whether it was explaining what the side effects of medication were or
what natural supplements worked best, the pharmacist seemed to help those in
need.

"I saw the guidance and compassion that the pharmacist always had. For me, the
pharmacist was a stranger, but acted as family," said Guzman. "He soon became
the symbol of hope which acknowledged my mother and me. From those moments, I
knew that I wanted to spend my days helping and comforting families like that
pharmacist did for us."

He graduated from Texas A&M University-Kingsville in May 2013, where he worked
on his pre-pharmacy curriculum.

"I was able to incorporate what I learned in class to my research where I worked
with the synthesis and inhibition of a protein," he said.

For Guzman, choosing an institution for his career path was just as easy as
choosing a career. When he was only 13-years-old, the news of the first
professional school south of San Antonio made headlines in his hometown. As a
born and raised native of South Texas, he saw the opportunity to attend the
Texas A&M Rangel College of Pharmacy as a dream come true.

Another major deciding factor for Guzman was the progression at the Texas A&M
Rangel College of Pharmacy. It is ranked in the Top 50 pharmacy programs in the
U.S. in a short amount of time.

"The Texas A&M Rangel College of Pharmacy promotes superior health services and
advocacy; I was able to observe that just by stepping into area stores," said
Guzman. "For this reason, I saw the school as an opportunity to be closer to
home and serve the people of my community that have done so much for me."

For further information please visit: http://tamutimes.tamu.edu/

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              678 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            July 11, 2012 Wednesday

Eye-candy a must in college: Students

BYLINE: Kashika Saxena

SECTION: MAN-WOMAN

LENGTH: 647 words


Forget the course vs college debate, for many DU aspirants, presence of some eye
candy is essential while choosing a college.

What college we get into, we're told, will decide if our future is going to be a
black abyss of anonymity or a row of shining trophies of academic excellence.
So, every year, amid over-enthusiastic parents, over-charging tutors and
over-achieving peers, 17 and 18-year-olds try to zero in on a college that will
hopefully turn them into successful adults. With every cut-off list that DU
colleges are coming out with, students are narrowing down on choices, choices
that their parents are sure have everything to do with academics, the course,
and the professors.

But there is one criterion, which, even though is not said out loud at round
table conferences at homes, is a major deal breaker in mission admission. For
some girls, nothing matters as much as the gender of their peers. The boys, at
least in Delhi University, just have to deal with having girls around in class,
and we've never heard anyone complain about that.

Time to face the real world

The strongest argument in favour of co-ed colleges is the real world doesn't ask
you for a preference regarding the gender of your colleagues. "All-girls schools
are fine, they may even help in bonding or trying to figure out what sort of a
person you are. But things get real in college. It's not a hideout. We need to
learn to be around all sorts of people, and that includes boys. I am from an
all-girls school, and I have friends who get tongue-tied in front of boys. I
feel very shy around boys. College is the time to get over that, otherwise how
will we work with men in offices?" says 17-year-old Akansha Shetty*, who is
choosing Hindu over LSR for this reason.

We want to fall in love

Love seems to be of primary importance to college students, even though their
'raging hormones' give their parents sleepless nights. "I've studied in a
convent school for 10 years, and it's time for a change now. I want to have a
boyfriend, or at least some sort of eye candy in class. My parents are worried
that the minute I step into a co-ed college I will start dating, so they're
asking me to go to Gargi or Maitreyi, but even if I have to go to a lesser known
co-ed college, I will go. Dating is a big deal in college. My elder sister told
me that within a month of starting college, everyone in her class had a
boyfriend," she says.

Separating boys and girls makes them desperate

Attention from the opposite sex is a primary concern for many college students.
But what do you do if there is no opposite sex in your college? "My cousin went
from a co-ed school to an all-girls college, and she told me it was scary. A lot
of her classmates were just desperate for male attention. They would flirt with
everyone from the autowallah to the canteen boy," says Namrata Sharma*.

All-girls is always a little more serious

It's always been about academics for Sabrina Mehta*, so she doesn't want any
distractions. But that's not the only reason she chose LSR over St Stephen's.
She's shy, and just wants to be comfortable. "It's a different classroom culture
in an all-girls college. Girls are more serious; they make academics a priority.
Plus, I am shy. I don't want to put myself in a position where I get embarrassed
because I acted clumsy around a boy," she says.

Eighteen-year-old Karishma Nagpal* has a choice between Hans Raj and Miranda
House, but she's inclined towards the latter. "I already have a cousin in
Miranda House, who says that she found an all-girls environment more liberating.
It made her more of a feminist. I want to get into women's studies in the
future, so I'd rather go there than end up getting distracted in a co-ed. Plus,
when boys are not around girls are less bitchy and friendships are stronger,"
she says.

(* Some names have been changed on request)

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              679 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Illford Recorder

                             May 12, 2011 Thursday

Choosing your school

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 421 words


' With an increasing array of options available these days, choosing a school
for your child, whether it be state-run, specialist or an independent, can be a
daunting task.



Choosing a school is one of the most important decisions you will ever make, so
to have the best chance of being successful in your application make sure you
begin the process well in advance.

You can find schools near you through a local authority prospectus or by going
online at www.direct.gov.uk. The prospectus provides useful information such as
the application process and deadlines, number of pupils and admissions criteria,
which will give you a good idea of your child's chances of getting there.

Before making your final choice think about your family's and child's needs:

n Is afterschool childcare important, for example.

n Listening to your child is also important.

n Having friends in their school could be crucial, especially when choosing
secondary places.

n Make sure that it will meet your child's requirements if they have special
needs.

State schools range from community schools run by the local authority,
foundation schools run by their own governning body, trust schools which partner
with a business or charity, voluntary-aided relgious or faith schools run by a
governing body and voluntary-controlled schools run by the local authority.

Specialist schools follow the National Curriculum while focusing on a specific
subject such as maths, languages, sport, art or music.

Also within the state system are the academies, which are independently managed
and set up by business, religious or voluntary sponsors, independently managed
non-fee paying city technology colleges offering vocational as well as academic
qualifications, community and foundation special schools catering for children
with special needs, faith schools, grammar schools, where pupils are selected by
ability and maintained boarding schools which charge fees for board and lodging.


There are also an increasing number of independent schools, which set their own
curriculum and admissions policies and are funded by parents fees and investment
income.

Once you have selected the schools that best meet your child's needs, find out
more about them through visits and check the most recent performance tables and
Ofsted reports.

You should make your application in the autumn term before your child is due to
start. Check with  your local authority to make sure you don't miss the
deadline. Local authorities send out their decisions on March 1 for secondary
schools.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ILF


                    Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              680 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                           September 25, 1989, Monday

COLLEGE CHAT: PICKING ONE, RUNNING ONE

BYLINE: BY CRAIG LERNER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12, Column 4

LENGTH: 18 words


Craig Lerner reviews books Choosing a College, by Thomas Sowell, and Straight
Shooting, by John Silber

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

TYPE: REVIEW

              Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              681 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                           December 9, 2006 Saturday

Cultivating a Martian garden

BYLINE: By Nicky Loomis Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 305 words


SAN MARINO - With a chilly average temperature of -67 degrees Farenheit, Mars
seems an unlikely place for a garden to grow. But that didn't stop five
high-school students from trying.

Working together to build a design for a conceptual garden on Mars, students
presented "The Eagle Crater Garden" on Saturday morning at the Huntington
Gardens Botanical Center.

As part of Art Center College of Design's Saturday High Program, the students
spent 10 weeks building a model of their garden as part of a class called Garden
on Mars.

The class explores what life might be like on the Red Planet, working in
conjunction with JPL's Imagine Mars program, which launched nationwide in 2002.

Students learned about the Martian environment by studying botany, habitat
design, landscape and architecture, working with advisers from JPL, Johnson
Space Center, the Huntington and Art Center.

In a first-time collaboration between Huntington Library, JPL and Art Center,
the organizations provided financial aid and materials for the students.

Using actual data and topographical maps from JPL, the students chose Eagle
Crater on Mars as the site for the garden, not far from where a Mars rover
landed in 2003.

After choosing the site, landscape design was incorporated as students began
choosing various materials for the garden, said Paula Goodman, director of the
K-12 programs at Art Center.

"Students spent time learning about self-contained environments by exploring
what kinds of gardens would work for the martian landscape," Goodman said.

Participants were: April Lee, 15, a sophomore at Gabrielino High School;
Jean-Pierre Lifavi, 18, a graduate starting community college next semester;
Michelle Ahlstrom, 17, a senior at Saugus High; Amber Nicholson, 16, a junior at
Duarte High; and Chris McLaughlin, 15, a sophomore at Monrovia High School.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2006 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              682 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             January 1, 2006 Sunday

Broken wrist leads guard to hoops future

BYLINE: NANCY MORGAN

SECTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 928 words


A broken wrist was responsible for Kelcey Roegiers-Jensen choosing basketball
over softball.

From the only 6-year-old girl on a boys basketball team at Roberts Community
Center to a four-time all-state player at Boca Ciega High, Roegiers-Jensen is
now in her junior season at Georgia State.

The guard is third on the team in scoring average (9.1 points) and second in
rebounds (5.7). In the Panthers' first-round win in its invitational last week,
Roegiers-Jensen had 17 points, seven assists and nine rebounds.

"I was actually planning on trying out for softball when I was about 6 years
old," said Roegiers-Jensen, 20. "When I broke my wrist, I missed tryouts and the
whole softball season. Basketball was next and when I tried it, it instantly
caught my attention. The game keeps going and that kept my attention from the
very beginning."

Roegiers-Jensen played point guard every year until she was a freshman at
Georgia State. After spending time at both the two- and three-guard positions,
Roegiers-Jensen has settled into the two-guard spot.

"I play mostly the two-guard, but the only real difference between that and
point guard is that I don't bring the ball down the court," she said. "I still
fulfill all the leadership roles, from reading defenses to calling plays. You
have to be a vocal leader, be strong in scoring, rebound on offense and defense
and pass effectively."

Roegiers-Jensen's transition to college basketball was a quick one. She played
in 29 games her first year, all 30 her sophomore season and is a returning
starter this year. The increased pace of the game and a high level of commitment
were the biggest differences at the college level.

Roegiers-Jensen entertained various college options, including Rutgers, Old
Dominion and Northwestern. Choosing Georgia State, Roegiers-Jensen said, came
down to the wire. Besides wanting to play in a top program, Roegiers-Jensen
looked for a school that wasn't so large that she couldn't showcase her talents.

A big factor, too, was 12-year coach Lea Henry-Manning. A 1984 Olympic gold
medalist, Henry-Manning provides leadership, direction and instruction.

Henry-Manning, a Tennessee graduate, runs a very structured offense and is
strong on fundamentals, Roegiers-Jensen said.

"This is our first year in the (Colonial Athletic Association) and it would be
great to win it," Roegiers-Jensen said. "It would be an honor to be chosen MVP
like last year at our tournament and even better for our team to advance to the
NCAA Tournament."

On Friday, Roegiers-Jensen and her Panther teammates lost to Davidson 63-56 in
the Hyatt Regency Atlanta Invitational championship.

MORE BASKETBALL: Junior forward Dominique Redding (Clearwater) scored 12 for No.
1 Tennessee in a 107-39 victory over Princeton on Dec. 20.

Shaneisha Walton (Largo/Appalachian State) scored 13 of Tampa's first 15 in a
60-40 win over Palm Beach Atlantic on Dec. 22. The sophomore center ended the
game with a career-high 21 points and a team-high six rebounds. Last year's
Sunshine State Conference Freshman of the Year is averaging 15 points and has 93
rebounds.

Junior guard Jen Hansen(Seminole) scored nine for Army in a 67-54 win over
Gardner-Webb Dec. 19.

Senior center Catherine Dupont (St. Petersburg Catholic) is averaging more than
10 minutes per game for Rice. Dupont, a two-time Academic All-American, is
playing her second season of basketball after starting four seasons on the
volleyball team and leading the Owls to their first NCAA appearance in 2004.

Greg Cummings (East Lake West Point Prep) is a reserve forward at Saint Anselm.
The junior has played in three of 10 games.

Vitor Boccardo (Admiral Farragut) is a sophomore forward at Loyola Marymount.

Matt Walker (Seminole) and Tuck Taylor (Palm Harbor University) are senior
guards for West Florida.

FOOTBALL: Bethune-Cookman senior Ricky Williams was named to the Walter Camp
Football Foundation I-AA all-American team and to the Sports Network second
team. The return specialist averaged 31.4 yards returning, including two
touchdowns, with the longest a 95-yarder against Savannah State.

Atif Austin (Tarpon Springs/Iowa State/SW Minnesota State) completed his first
season as running back coach for North Iowa. As a player for Iowa State
(1998-2002), Austin received honorable mention in the Big 12.

Senior linebacker Mike Andrews (East Lake) started all 11 games for Youngstown
State, collecting 70 tackles, including 11 against Liberty in a 42-0 win.

Sophomore defensive end Blake Halverson (Keswick Christian) played in seven
games for Youngstown.

WRESTLING: Wes Walker (Countryside) is a freshman member of Harvard's squad,
competing in the 174-pound weight class.

SWIMMING: Marshall's Erin Hill(East Lake) was first in the 200-yard breaststroke
in the team's loss to West Virginia. Hill's time of 2 minutes, 25.41 seconds was
a season-best for the sophomore.

Clearwater's Jay Carpenter(homeschooled) helped the U.S Merchant Marine Academy
to its fourth consecutive win with a first in the 200 individual medley, 100
freestyle and 400 medley relay. At the ECAC Championships, the sophomore was
seventh among the top 20 individual scorers.

CROSS COUNTRY: Erin Heeder(Dunedin/South Florida) ran Tampa's fifth-best time
(25 minutes, 15 seconds) in the NCAA Championships in Pomona, Calif.

VOLLEYBALL: Sophomore middle blocker Chelsea Lazar (East Lake) saw action in
Marshall's NCAA first-round matchup with Ohio State.

News for this column may be faxed to Nancy Morgan, 796-5559; e-mailed to
namorgan46@msn.com, or sent to 710 Court St., Clearwater, FL 33756. Please
include phone number.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; LARGO TIMES; NEIGHBORHOOD
TIMES

SERIES: ATHLETE UPDATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Kelcey Roegiers-Jensen

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              683 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                             hollywoodreporter.com

                            October 14, 2014 Tuesday

Stephen Colbert Mocks 'Say Yes to the Dress'-Inspired Republican Ads

BYLINE: Aaron Couch

SECTION: NEWS; TAG

LENGTH: 210  words


Stephen Colbertis taking aim at a new ad trying to sway young women to "say yes"
to voting Republican in the midterm elections.

The ad, which The College Republican National Committee launched earlier this
month, is in the vein of TLC's Say Yes to the Dress, with a woman choosing her
candidates as if they were wedding gown designers. She ultimately goes for
Florida Governor Rick Scott over challenger Charlie Crist, because choosing the
Crist gown would be fiscally irresponsible.

Colbert mocked the ad for assuming a bridal-themed campaign was the best way to
reach women, and later went on to debut an ad of his own, with women talking
about candidates as though they were feminine hygiene products

See more 2014's New Broadcast and Cable TV Shows

"Who need access to contraception and equal pay? You're getting married - let
him take care of that hard stuff," Colbert said.

The College Republicans customized the ad for candidates across the country (cue
Colbert's supercut of the young woman saying "yes" to about a dozen candidates).

See more Hollywood's 100 Favorite Films

"It is a nice dress, but I think trying out so many candidates disqualifies her
from wearing white," Colbert said.

You can see the Colbert Reportsegment above and the original ad below.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: ONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2014 VNU Business Media, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              684 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Bucks Herald

                             January 4, 2015 Sunday

Education Eye: Crucial that subjects play to your strengths

BYLINE: Catherine Stoker, Director Of The Independent Education Consultants

LENGTH: 319  words


Are you in year 11 and starting to consider future sixth form subject choices?

This is an important part of preparing for year 12 in September 2015, especially
if embarking on a change of school at this stage.

Sixth form offers opportunities to either continue subjects you have studied at
GCSE or to embark on new ones. Choosing the right subjects in the right
combination to ensure your ability to make a strong application to university or
other pathway to higher education can be tricky.

From September 2015 A levels are changing, so there are some important new
factors to consider in the way your chosen subjects are assessed. If your school
offers IB, choosing this over A levels is also an important decision.

Firstly you need to enjoy, feel motivated and inspired by the subjects you
choose in the sixth form. Review the content and the academic skills required
for each of the subjects you are considering. You must be interested in the
syllabus and feel confident that you have the required academic skills to do
well in it.

For example, some subjects require a lot of independent research and background
reading, essay writing, creative thinking, logic, maths skills, project work.
It's crucial that your subjects match your strengths.

Secondly, your combination of subjects must fit your career aspirations. Review
entry requirements for university courses via the UCAS website. Ensure you're
keeping your options open. If the subjects you need to fulfil career aspirations
don't match your strongest academic skills and interests, meaning you're
choosing subjects you find very difficult, consider changing your career
aspirations.

Seek guidance from your school and other advisers, but remember you need
commitment and motivation to work hard to achieve success in sixth form, so be
sure they're your subject choices and career ambitions and not those of friends,
relations or others offering helpful advice.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MCBH


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              685 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Hemel Today

                             January 4, 2015 Sunday

Education Eye: Crucial that subjects play to your strengths

BYLINE: Catherine Stoker, Director Of The Independent Education Consultants

LENGTH: 319  words


Are you in year 11 and starting to consider future sixth form subject choices?

This is an important part of preparing for year 12 in September 2015, especially
if embarking on a change of school at this stage.

Sixth form offers opportunities to either continue subjects you have studied at
GCSE or to embark on new ones. Choosing the right subjects in the right
combination to ensure your ability to make a strong application to university or
other pathway to higher education can be tricky.

From September 2015 A levels are changing, so there are some important new
factors to consider in the way your chosen subjects are assessed. If your school
offers IB, choosing this over A levels is also an important decision.

Firstly you need to enjoy, feel motivated and inspired by the subjects you
choose in the sixth form. Review the content and the academic skills required
for each of the subjects you are considering. You must be interested in the
syllabus and feel confident that you have the required academic skills to do
well in it.

For example, some subjects require a lot of independent research and background
reading, essay writing, creative thinking, logic, maths skills, project work.
It's crucial that your subjects match your strengths.

Secondly, your combination of subjects must fit your career aspirations. Review
entry requirements for university courses via the UCAS website. Ensure you're
keeping your options open. If the subjects you need to fulfil career aspirations
don't match your strongest academic skills and interests, meaning you're
choosing subjects you find very difficult, consider changing your career
aspirations.

Seek guidance from your school and other advisers, but remember you need
commitment and motivation to work hard to achieve success in sixth form, so be
sure they're your subject choices and career ambitions and not those of friends,
relations or others offering helpful advice.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MCHG


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              686 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Thame Gazette

                             January 4, 2015 Sunday

Education Eye: Crucial that subjects play to your strengths

BYLINE: Catherine Stoker, Director Of The Independent Education Consultants

LENGTH: 319  words


Are you in year 11 and starting to consider future sixth form subject choices?

This is an important part of preparing for year 12 in September 2015, especially
if embarking on a change of school at this stage.

Sixth form offers opportunities to either continue subjects you have studied at
GCSE or to embark on new ones. Choosing the right subjects in the right
combination to ensure your ability to make a strong application to university or
other pathway to higher education can be tricky.

From September 2015 A levels are changing, so there are some important new
factors to consider in the way your chosen subjects are assessed. If your school
offers IB, choosing this over A levels is also an important decision.

Firstly you need to enjoy, feel motivated and inspired by the subjects you
choose in the sixth form. Review the content and the academic skills required
for each of the subjects you are considering. You must be interested in the
syllabus and feel confident that you have the required academic skills to do
well in it.

For example, some subjects require a lot of independent research and background
reading, essay writing, creative thinking, logic, maths skills, project work.
It's crucial that your subjects match your strengths.

Secondly, your combination of subjects must fit your career aspirations. Review
entry requirements for university courses via the UCAS website. Ensure you're
keeping your options open. If the subjects you need to fulfil career aspirations
don't match your strongest academic skills and interests, meaning you're
choosing subjects you find very difficult, consider changing your career
aspirations.

Seek guidance from your school and other advisers, but remember you need
commitment and motivation to work hard to achieve success in sixth form, so be
sure they're your subject choices and career ambitions and not those of friends,
relations or others offering helpful advice.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTTG


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              687 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      East Valley Tribune (Mesa, Arizona)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 1, 2012 Wednesday

Peat, Hood, Williams, Cozens pick colleges

BYLINE: Kyle Odegard, East Valley Tribune, Mesa, Ariz.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 479 words


Feb. 01--Four of the East Valley's top football prospects made their college
choices known on National Signing Day Wednesday.

Corona del Sol offensive lineman Andrus Peat (who chose Stanford), Hamilton
defensive tackle Jaxon Hood (Arizona State), Chandler wide receiver Javon
Williams (UCLA) and Chaparral defensive end Dylan Cozens (Arizona) each waited
until the last minute to make some fanbases happy and others upset.

Peat chose Stanford over Nebraska, USC and Florida State live on ESPNU's Signing
Day Special show. Hundreds of students huddled around the makeshift set as he
made the announcement at Corona.

Peat's older brother, Todd, plays for Nebraska and teammate Avery Moss committed
to the Huskers, but Andrus went a different way.

Peat is the state's top prospect and is ranked No. 9 nationally by ESPN. He was
a Parade All-American.

"I was going back and forth between the two schools but I thought I had a better
opportunity at Stanford," Peat said. "I was nervous (during the announcement).
It's a great feeling once you make that decision."

Andrus told Todd about choosing Stanford before the official announcement.

"He's proud of me for making the decision," Andrus said. "He's going to support
me wherever I go."

Hood verbally committed to Boston College, but switched his pledge to Arizona
State. The previous coaching staffs at Arizona State and Arizona did not offer
him a scholarship, but new coaches Todd Graham and Rich Rodriguez both extended
offers soon after getting hired.

Hood was very vocal about being underrated, and said that chip on his shoulder
helps him succeed in all walks of life.

"If you don't believe in yourself, nobody will," Hood said.

Cozens didn't play football until this season but his potential became evident
immediately. He chose the Wildcats over Boise State and Washington.

Former Chaparral coach Charlie Ragle is now working for the Wildcats' football
program and several teammates have committed to Arizona. Cozens is also a
baseball star and will play both in college.

His father, Randy, played college football at Pittsburgh and in the NFL with the
Denver Broncos, but dissuaded Dylan from playing because of the risk of injury.

Cozens said he didn't mind forgoing football for baseball before, but 'now that
I'm playing (football), I love it.'

Williams chose UCLA over Arkansas. He duped the crowd by grabbing the Razorbacks
hat first before putting it down and putting on one with the Bruins insignia.

Peoria Centennial defensive back Zach Hoffpauir also made his decision on
Wednesday, choosing Stanford over Arizona State.

Reach Kyle Odegard at (480) 898-6834 or kodegard@evtrib.com Follow his blog at
http://blogs.evtrib.com/varsityxtra, or find him on Twitter @Kyle_Odegard.

___ (c)2012 East Valley Tribune (Mesa, Ariz.) Visit East Valley Tribune (Mesa,
Ariz.) at www.eastvalleytribune.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120201-MZ-Peat-Hood-Williams-Cozens-pick-colleges-0201-20120201

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MZ


                       Copyright 2012 East Valley Tribune


                              688 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Press Democrat, Santa Rosa, Calif.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 1, 2012 Wednesday

Empire athletes ready to sign with 4-year colleges

BYLINE: Michael Coit, The Press Democrat, Santa Rosa, Calif.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 566 words


Feb. 01--Playing college soccer has been Belden Long's ambition since childhood.
Tara Funk never imagined a chance to play soccer at a four-year college.

Both eagerly await today's mail delivery and the national letter of intent
formally committing them to college teams -- Long to UCLA and Funk with Sonoma
State.

"I'm really grateful for the opportunity," said Long, an All-Empire defender for
Cardinal Newman. "When I set a goal, I work to make it happen. Playing soccer in
college is always something I wanted to do."

Having played just one season at Petaluma High, goalkeeper Funk helped lead
Santa Rosa Junior College to a national rankings and the state women's soccer
title.

"If you asked me four years ago if I was going to do this, I would have
laughed," Funk said. "This is the coolest feeling. I'm really excited."

Today opens the formal signing period for student-athletes playing fall sports
at NCAA Division I and II schools: football, cross country, field hockey,
soccer, track and field, and men's water polo.

Rare are the opportunities for prep athletes to continue playing at four-year
colleges.

One proud coach is Windsor High's Rob Gatrell. Two of his football players will
play college ball. Brady Stibi will play at UC Davis. Taylor Biaggi is expected
to decide to accept an offer as early as Wednesday.

"Scholarships aren't easy to come by, especially to a great school academically
and with a tradition of winning," Gatrell said.

Prep athletes often make their choices after visiting college campuses as
seniors.

For Long, choosing UCLA over Harvard, Stanford, Long Beach State, Santa Clara
and Loyola Marymount came down to a love of the bustling campus on the west end
of Los Angeles and the chance of playing for a top NCAA team.

"I have a lot of energy and the energy at the school matched me. I think it was
a perfect fit," Long said.

"I know the soccer is going to be a lot more challenging and that is one of the
reasons I wanted to go there. I wanted to be surrounded by the best of the
best."

Since her first year at age 10 playing on Santa Rosa United club soccer travel
teams, Long has pushed herself to improve her game.

"That's where I learned to love the game, to practice and play hard and be
disciplined," Long said.

While a latecomer to soccer, Funk worked hard to make herself a top junior
college player.

"It's really the hard work, that fight and competition that gets you to play
your best," Funk said. "I got faster and better, but it was really the mental
block to play my best that I had to overcome."

Now the student-athletes must prepare for the transition to more rigorous
four-year college level athletic competition and academic expectations. So
choosing the right college is very important.

While few might express a love for Fresno in the Central Valley heat, Gatrell
had fond memories of summers visiting family there and watching Bulldogs
football practices.

Out of Liberty High in Brentwood, Gatrell picked Fresno State over Colorado
State, Boise State and Nevada-Las Vegas.

"I had a blast. I loved it," said Gatrell, who also completed a bachelor's
degree at Fresno State. "You have to feel good. I always tell kids this is where
you're going to spend the next four to five years of your life."

___ (c)2012 The Press Democrat (Santa Rosa, Calif.) Visit The Press Democrat
(Santa Rosa, Calif.) at www.pressdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120201-UR-Empire-athletes-ready-to-sign-with-4-year-colleges
-0201-20120201

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UR


                                 Copyright 2012


                              689 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                            August 6, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CHOOSE AN APPRENTICESHIP

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 523 words


Choosing an Apprenticeship means choosing to kick start your future career as
you will be learning in the workplace. Apprenticeships offer valuable paid work
experience and the chance to study and gain a formal qualication at the same
time; this is the key benet for many young people as you 'earn while you learn'.

Gloucestershire College offers a wide range of apprenticeship programmes within
the Business, Administration, IT and Computing sectors. The College's employer
arm, the Gloucestershire College Business Hub, currently has over 50 live
apprenticeship vacancies open for application advertised online at
www.apprenticeships.org.uk, with positions available in locations across the
county including Cheltenham, Gloucester, Tewkesbury, Stroud and the Forest of
Dean.

Current live Apprenticeship positions in Business, Administration, IT and
Computing include: o Administration Apprenticeship with Overton Park Surgery o
Administration/Data Entry Clerk Apprenticeship with Keyway (Gloucester) Ltd o IT
Support Apprenticeship with Automotive Compliance Limited o Business Development
and Support Apprenticeship with Cuff Security Services Ltd o Stock
Management/Purchasing Apprenticeship with Joedan Manufactuting UK Ltd o Business
Support Assistant Apprenticeship with Meningitis Trust o Business Administration
Apprenticeship with Continuity Care Ltd o Lettings Coordinator Apprenticeship
with Belvior o Business Administration Apprenticeship with Two Rivers Housing o
Administration Apprenticeship with Legal & Medical Investments Ltd These paid
Apprenticeship positions are AVAILABLE NOW. To view and apply for current
apprenticeship vacancies at Gloucestershire College, please visit the
Apprenticeship Vacancy website at https://
www.apprenticeshipvacancymatchingservice.lsc.gov.uk/. If there is not of
position of interest, please note that new vacancies are added weekly.

Peter White, Vice Principal at Gloucestershire College said; "I would actively
encourage young people and their parents to choose the apprenticeship route as a
rst option. Apprentices have the unique opportunity to earn while they learn;
and to gain invaluable experience alongside kick starting their future careers.

Gloucestershire is a county that celebrates the success of our young Apprentices
and values the positive impact Apprentices are having on business; bringing in
new ideas, developing a positive training culture and improving service
standards. Many of today's business leaders started out as an Apprentice,
learning their trade before climbing the career ladder."

Your future career is important to us, so why not let us help you with that rst
step? To nd out more about Apprenticeships at Gloucestershire College, please
visit www.gloscol.ac.uk/employers-and-apprentices or call the GC Business Hub on
01452 5634000.

o 71% of employers recommend young people do an Apprenticeship. o Employers nd
apprentices 15% more employable than young people. with other qualications.

o Those with higher apprenticeships are the most employable of all young people.

Apprentices develop good theoretical, practical, and employability skills.
Ofsted, 2013

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLE


                      Copyright 2014 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved


                              690 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday

More grads still opting to start own businesses

BYLINE: Zhao Xinying

LENGTH: 613  words


The percentage of Chinese college graduates choosing to start their own
businesses has risen for three consecutive years, a survey shows.

It also found that the average monthly salary of self-employed graduates is
higher than those who are not.

Of the college students who graduated in 2013, 2.3 percent started their own
business, higher than the figure for 2012 (2 percent), 2011 (1.6 percent) and
2010 (1.5 percent).

This is according to the 2014 Chinese College Graduates' Employment Annual
Report, released on Monday by MyCOS, an education consulting and research
institute in Beijing.

The survey polled 268,000 graduates from 28 provinces and regions.

Chen Yu, vice-president of the China Association for Employment Promotion, said
the increase results from government efforts in recent years to support
graduates in starting their own businesses, such as reduced intervention, the
offer of micro loans and cuts in taxes and fees.

"These measures provide a good environment for college graduates who intend to
start their own businesses," Chen said.

The survey also found the education sector is graduates' preferred choice when
they decide to start a business, with 15 percent of them choosing to begin their
careers in this area.

Other areas, including retail, wholesale, architecture, media, information and
telecoms, are among the top choices.

Feng Lijuan, chief consultant at 51job.com, a major recruiting website in China,
said starting a business in these fields is comparatively easier and college
graduates have a bigger chance of keeping their businesses going.

"The education sector, especially test-oriented training, is expanding quickly
in China and therefore college graduates, as a group of highly educated people,
can easily find a place in it," Feng said.

As for the retail and wholesale industries, Feng said a series of online trading
websites such as taobao.com provide a simple and convenient platform for college
graduates to establish their own online stores.

The report shows that only 8 percent of self-employed college graduates started
their own businesses because of difficulty in landing jobs, while 48 percent did
so because they wanted to become entrepreneurs.

Other reasons include having good entrepreneurial ideas, being invited by
friends or peers to start a business together and believing in the income
prospects of entrepreneurship.

The report said college students who started their own businesses after
graduating in 2010 now earn an average of 8,424 yuan ($1,349) a month, 41
percent higher than the average for all college students who graduated that
year.

Despite the good incomes earned by college graduate entrepreneurs, experts
voiced concern for such businesses.

Feng believes that real entrepreneurship lies in innovative developments in
areas such as the high-tech sector.

"But most Chinese college graduates can't make it with their current knowledge
structure and therefore most of the Chinese graduate entrepreneurs end up in the
service industry."

Chen said, "An ideal entrepreneurship program can solve the problem of college
graduates' employment and also create new industries and promote the development
of the economy, science and technology, just like Steve Jobs and Apple did."

zhaoxinying@chinadaily.com.cn

Graduates use posters to promote themselves at a job fair in Bozhou, Anhui
province, on Sunday. The percentage of college graduates opting to start their
own businesses has risen for three years running and the average monthly salary
of self-employed graduates is higher than those working for others, a survey
shows. Liu Qinli / for China Daily

(China Daily 06/10/2014 page4)

Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              691 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            China Daily - US Edition

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday

More grads still opting to start own businesses

LENGTH: 614  words


The percentage of Chinese college graduates choosing to start their own
businesses has risen for three consecutive years, a survey shows.

It also found that the average monthly salary of self-employed graduates is
higher than those who are not.

Of the college students who graduated in 2013, 2.3 percent started their own
business, higher than the figure for 2012 (2 percent), 2011 (1.6 percent) and
2010 (1.5 percent).

This is according to the 2014 Chinese College Graduates' Employment Annual
Report, released on Monday by MyCOS, an education consulting and research
institute in Beijing.

The survey polled 268,000 graduates from 28 provinces and regions.

Chen Yu, vice-president of the China Association for Employment Promotion, said
the increase results from government efforts in recent years to support
graduates in starting their own businesses, such as reduced intervention, the
offer of micro loans and cuts in taxes and fees.

"These measures provide a good environment for college graduates who intend to
start their own businesses," Chen said.

The survey also found the education sector is graduates' preferred choice when
they decide to start a business, with 15 percent of them choosing to begin their
careers in this area.

Other areas, including retail, wholesale, architecture, media, information and
telecoms, are among the top choices.

Feng Lijuan, chief consultant at 51job.com, a major recruiting website in China,
said starting a business in these fields is comparatively easier and college
graduates have a bigger chance of keeping their businesses going.

"The education sector, especially test-oriented training, is expanding quickly
in China and therefore college graduates, as a group of highly educated people,
can easily find a place in it," Feng said.

As for the retail and wholesale industries, Feng said a series of online trading
websites such as taobao.com provide a simple and convenient platform for college
graduates to establish their own online stores.

The report shows that only 8 percent of self-employed college graduates started
their own businesses because of difficulty in landing jobs, while 48 percent did
so because they wanted to become entrepreneurs.

Other reasons include having good entrepreneurial ideas, being invited by
friends or peers to start a business together and believing in the income
prospects of entrepreneurship.

The report said college students who started their own businesses after
graduating in 2010 now earn an average of 8,424 yuan ($1,349) a month, 41
percent higher than the average for all college students who graduated that
year.

Despite the good incomes earned by college graduate entrepreneurs, experts
voiced concern for such businesses.

Feng believes that real entrepreneurship lies in innovative developments in
areas such as the high-tech sector.

"But most Chinese college graduates can't make it with their current knowledge
structure and therefore most of the Chinese graduate entrepreneurs end up in the
service industry."

Chen said, "An ideal entrepreneurship program can solve the problem of college
graduates' employment and also create new industries and promote the development
of the economy, science and technology, just like Steve Jobs and Apple did."

zhaoxinying@chinadaily.com.cn

Graduates use posters to promote themselves at a job fair in Bozhou, Anhui
province, on Sunday. The percentage of college graduates opting to start their
own businesses has risen for three years running and the average monthly salary
of self-employed graduates is higher than those working for others, a survey
shows. Liu Qinli / for China Daily

(China Daily USA 06/10/2014 page5)

Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1496


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              692 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Eureka Times-Standard (California)

                              June 18, 2017 Sunday

A different kind of graduation

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 779 words

ABSTRACT

Another view

FULL TEXT

In a sea of graduates this month, Maddi Runkles stands out. Runkles is a young
mom who got a commencement from high school like few others.

Maddi, a 4.0 student, president of the student council and a soccer player, was
seven months pregnant on graduation day. She was given a two-day unofficial
suspension and removed from leadership positions for violating her Christian
school's moral code, which is understandable. But then her school decided that,
as an unmarried, visibly pregnant teen, she could not walk with the rest of the
class during graduation. That was when the college pro-life group Students for
Life stepped in, giving Runkles her own graduation ceremony in a Methodist
church near her home in Boonsboro, Maryland.

Millie Lopus, director of the Women's Care Center in Baltimore, which provides
help for women of all ages facing an unexpected pregnancy, was in Runkles'
situation two decades ago. In Lopus' case, she was pregnant in college, and
thankfully received the support necessary to avoid the pain of abortion and
choose adoption for her child. The Jesuit president of Loyola University, where
she was attending school at the time, "couldn't have been more supportive," she
recalled in an interview with me. The president also shared his sadness that
there were no "pregnant women on campus anymore." His hope was not that more
college women would find themselves pregnant, but that if they did, they would
feel that they had the support to have their babies one way or another. Instead,
he well knew, abortion is too often the solution to an unexpected pregnancy.

Similarly, Kristen Hawkins, president of Students for Life, says that when she
decided to hold a graduation for Runkles, she wasn't looking to encourage
anything but the support of students who find themselves pregnant. She wants to
inspire "hundreds of Christian schools to re-examine their treatment of pregnant
students," she says. "Abortion is a Christian problem," she says, with "over
half of women who have abortions (identifying) as Christians and more than 40
percent of those (being) regular churchgoers."

"If Christians would stop seeking abortions, stop identifying as 'pro-choice,'
and stop voting for politicians who support abortions, we wouldn't have abortion
in our nation," Hawkins tells me. "Period."

"I actually had a mother come up to me at Maddi's graduation," Hawkins shares.
"At first, I thought she wanted to chastise me for helping to take Maddi's story
public, but I was wrong. She began crying and told me that she was in Maddi's
exact shoes when she was 18, a senior at a Christian school, and pregnant out of
wedlock. She said she chose wrong and is so proud of Maddi for standing up and
choosing life, doing what she failed to do.

"Becoming pregnant under difficult circumstances and yet still choosing life for
her child was something we thought deserved to be celebrated," Hawkins said.
"Maddi is a courageous example to others in her situation, and we hope young
women who are facing similar circumstances look to Maddi and her story and
decide to choose life."

The graduation ceremony included $16,000 in scholarship money and 7,000 messages
of support. "We want to change campuses so that no young women ever feels like
she has to choose between the life of her child and her education," Hawkins
explains. "We know choosing life will be difficult for her, but we want her to
know that we are walking with her every step of the way and seeking true social
justice with her. Granting Maddi a college scholarship was a way that we could
tangibly help her achieve her educational goals while having her child. Her
college degree will mean that she and her child will have the best chance of
living a life out of poverty."

Beyond Runkles, Students for Life has a Pregnant on Campus initiative, active on
both Christian and public schools, to make sure women know that they can't be
discriminated against, "to support women and educate them on both on- and
off-campus resources, and lobby the school for diaper decks, childcare and
lactation rooms."

"Our goal is to let pregnant students know that they don't have to choose
between their child and their education," Hawkins explains, "Both are possible
and we are here to help."

Embracing this approach could mean not only a graduation for Maddi Runkles but
for our abortion politics. Real choices on a campus near you. That's not a
political agenda, but a human way to approach life.

Kathryn Jean Lopez is senior fellow at the National Review Institute,
editor-at-large of National Review Online and founding director of Catholic
Voices USA. She can be contacted at klopez@nationalreview.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Times - Standard
                              All Rights Reserved


                              693 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           December 28, 2013 Saturday

This is no way to choose a leader

BYLINE: TOM FLANAGAN

SECTION: COMMENT; REFORM ACT; Pg. F2

LENGTH: 626 words


Distinguished fellow in the School of Public Policy, University of Calgary, and
a former campaign manager for conservative parties

Michael Chong's proposed Reform Act has attracted a lot support from pundits and
politicians. They seem to like Mr. Chong's idea that 15 per cent of caucus
should be able to demand a review in which the leader could be unseated by a
majority vote. The proponent and supporters are doubtless well intentioned, but
this is a bad idea and Parliament should take a pass on it.

The fundamental problem is that all national parties have constitutions
requiring their leader to be chosen not by their parliamentary caucus but by
party members, either voting directly for a leadership candidate, or indirectly
through delegates to a convention, or through some combination of the two. It
makes no sense to have the leader chosen by a democratic process involving tens
or even hundreds of thousands of people, but then allow a few dozen caucus
members to fire the leader when they feel like it.

But, one might ask, why must the leader be chosen by the party members? Why
shouldn't the caucus elect the leader, as used to be done in the 19th century
and is still done by some parties in Australia and New Zealand? The answer is
that we have moved on from the "Golden Age of Parliament" to an era of mass
democracy. Voters now expect to take part in choosing the country's chief
executive officer. Indeed, most voters, when they mark Liberal or Conservative
or NDP on their ballots, are thinking mainly of the party and the leader, not of
the local candidate. That is, they are thinking about choosing an executive
government.

There was a time when conventional wisdom held voters to be incapable of making
such a momentous choice. That led to the American Electoral College as a
mechanism for indirectly electing a president, and the early parliamentary
system of responsible government as a way of indirectly electing a prime
minister. But that time is long gone.

A system in which Parliament acts as an electoral college for the prime minister
is highly conducive to what Marx called "parliamentary cretinism." Exhibit A is
the caucus of the Australian Labor Party, which overthrew prime minister Kevin
Rudd in favour of Julia Gillard in 2010, then overthrew Ms. Gillard in 2013 and
reinstated Mr. Rudd to lead them into the impending election. Labor now has to
reap what it sowed - three years of Liberal majority government.

Or consider what happened in New Zealand in 1997. When prime minister Jim Bolger
was out of the country attending a Commonwealth meeting, one of his ministers,
Jenny Shipley, organized a caucus coup against him that made her prime minister.
Fittingly, she led the National Party to defeat by Labour in the next election.

Australia and New Zealand are wonderful countries (especially at this time of
year), but such Third World antics are unworthy of a mature democracy. Canadians
would be rightly appalled to see prime ministers overturned by caucus cliques in
such a cavalier way.

Empowering party members to choose the leader builds popular support, thus
giving the leader not just legal but also political authority to lead the party
and the elected caucus. This is critical to giving voters a meaningful choice
among parties with different policies, programs and personnel. Otherwise,
elections would just mean choosing representatives with little idea of what
comes next.

Look at the factional, personalized politics of many city councils (not just
Toronto) to get an idea of what democracy can be like without responsible
political parties.

The House of Commons should discuss the Reform Act seriously to expose the
fallacious thinking that underlies it, then let it die on the order paper.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2013 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              694 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2017 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                 November 2017

                                Envision Academy

                              1515 Webster Street
                               Oakland,  CA 94612
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (510) 596-8901
FAX: (510) 596-8905
URL: www.envisionacademy.org

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
EMPLOYEES: 75

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   At Envision Academy, we understand that opportunities, incomes, and even
quality of life can improve dramatically for those who earn a college degree. We
also believe deeply that college should be accessible to ALL students,
regardless of gender, race, ethnicity, disability or family background.  That is
why we are serious about making sure that every one of our students graduates
college-ready. EA graduates have taken ALL OF the academic courses required by
every 4-year university in the California State University and University of
California systems (A-G approved courses). They have spent four years learning
about college options, identifying their academic and career goals, and choosing
the college that best fits them. As part of Envision Academy's curriculum,
students visit at least one different college campus each year of high school.
Our students also get ongoing help in preparing for the SAT and learning about
other factors that will make them competitive applicants at numerous colleges.
Before graduation, our students know that college is not just within their
grasp, but is the logical next step and can be one of the most important keys to
a successful future.  We also understand that the process of preparing for,
applying to, and choosing a college can be difficult, confusing, and
overwhelming. Our College Advisor works with students during all four years of
high school, with more intensive counseling during their junior and senior
years. From the lengthy admissio

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2017


                              695 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              May 19, 2014 Monday

Graduating student plans to help her people after earning law degree

LENGTH: 782  words

DATELINE: Forest Ave


Arizona State University has issued the following news release:

Carley Tafoya isn't planning on earning a six-figure salary after earning her
law degree.

Tafoya will work for change and justice for her people, the Jicarilla Apache
Nation.

After graduating from ASU in May with a double major in American Indian Studies
and justice studies, as well as a minor in political science, Tafoya will earn
her master's degree in criminology before going to law school to study federal
Indian law.

Tafoya has excelled during her years at ASU, most recently by being named the
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Dean's Medalist in American Indian studies,
as well as being nominated for the Dean's Medal in justice studies. She is also
this year's recipient of the Jean Chaudhuri Memorial Scholarship.

Choosing justice studies as a dual major gave her a better understanding of the
problems that affect her tribe, such as domestic violence and child abuse, while
political science provides knowledge of state and local government.

"I want to make the tribal system more efficient," she said. "I'm a really big
proponent of restorative justice that focuses on traditional values that
American Indians can use to promote justice based on their traditions for people
who commit crimes." For instance, a domestic violence incident may be addressed
by bringing the parties involved together to think of a traditional way to heal.
Restorative justice is a way to bring healing and balance back to the community.

Choosing ASU as her top university was relatively easy for Tafoya, who
considered schools in New Mexico and California, but chose ASU after she heard
about the strong American Indian Studies program here with faculty members who
are all members of tribal nations.

"I think that it is important that you are taught by American Indian people.
There is that true connection to that lived experience," she said. "The faculty
is very inviting and willing to help you. Through American Indian Student
Support Services, I was able to get involved with other students."

Faculty experiences are enriched because of their time spent in reservation
communities, Tafoya said.

"I think that we all connect and understand the issues that we deal with as
American Indian people," she said. "It's important to remember where you come
from. Faculty members always remind students that we are part of a bigger
picture for American Indian people."

In line with this philosophy, Tafoya is planning on practicing law for her
people, as well as offering a legal voice from inside the community to aid in
tribal law and business ventures.

Favorite memories of ASU include meeting people from many different tribes and
learning about justice studies as it applies to American Indian people.

"I work with youth during the summer when I go home. It really helped me see a
lot of the issues in my community and how I can be a positive force for the
youth I work with," she said. Other moments include learning research techniques
in justice studies, participating in American Indian Studies events and
attending Native Nations to learn about nation building for American Indian
communities.

Attending law events during the summer, such as the LSAC Discover law NA-PLUS
program, was a great opportunity for Tafoya to interact with Native American
attorneys and learn how they work within federal Indian law.

"A lot of the work that they do is pro bono work, and their focus is to give
back to the American Indian community," she said. "I learned that it is very
important to work hard and to be a positive role model in your community when
you're on the other side of the table as a judge or lawyer. Your reputation
matters."

Learning through justice study classes at ASU gave her an expansive view of how
the legal system works.

"I thought it was a necessity to learn both the historical and present issues
that face American Indians, to learn about sovereignty and colonization. I took
justice studies courses because I wanted a more holistic view on the law," said
Tafoya, who is from Dulce, N.M., and is a citizen of the Jicarilla Apache Nation
and of Laguna Pueblo descent.

Tafoya is looking forward to the next chapter in her life as she continues her
education and serves as an inspiration for her younger siblings and their
children.

"Education is attainable, and it isn't limited to age. I want them to know that
it is an important part of life," she said. "Education is a key to American
Indian people being able to support their economy, protect their sovereignty,
their land and traditions. Education is a way to preserve these things for the
generations that will come after me."

For more information please visit: http://www.asu.edu

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              696 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            January 15, 2012 Sunday

Women votersseek reforms in education system

BYLINE: Swati Chandra

SECTION: VARANASI

LENGTH: 410 words


VARANASI: Young girls in the city seek reforms in the education system. So
before choosing a candidate in the upcoming assembly poll, they would evaluate
the background of all the candidates and their promises before zeroing in on the
one who deserves their vote.

Ankita Mittal, a BEd student, said, "Education system is plagued with lot of
anomalies in the state, from primary schools to government colleges, all look
sad, fatigued and unkempt. Sending children to costly private schools has become
a necessity for parents, for the quality of education looks very poor in
government schools. Rational approach is missing in government educational
institutions, be it in teaching methods, availability of books, laboratories, or
mid-day meal in primary schools. My vote will go to the person who is aware of
the potholes in the education system and would take steps to make the situation
better."

First time voter Zeba Siddique, a student of MA political science, Mahatma
Gandhi Kashi Vidyapeeth (MGKV), said people cannot be judged on the basis of
caste or religion. "While choosing the right candidate, my priority will be to
analyse who would create new avenues for studies in small city like ours. The
biggest challenge that we are facing is lack of infrastructure in education and
absence of innovative teaching methods. Books in libraries of many colleges are
still old. E-learning and online education are still a distant dream.

Colleges are insignificant as far as professional courses are concerned. I will
be voting for the first time and will choose the candidate who could bring new
avenues in the education sector," Zeba said.

According to Neelu Singh, another student of MGKV, due to the lack of employment
opportunities, brain drain has increased in eastern Uttar Pradesh, as young
aspirants as moving to other big cities. "The leader of the state should be one
who could develop all areas equally. He should create employment opportunities
in all areas of the state and at the same time, promote the budding talent,"
said Neelu.

Apart from that, some girls believe that only an educated candidate can bring
reforms in the education sector. Monika Patel, a student of bio-chemistry at
Banaras Hindu University (BHU), said, "It is necessary for our leader to be at
least a graduate, otherwise he will not be able to understand what youngsters
want and what are the necessities of the contemporary world for students."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              697 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                            November 27, 2011 Sunday

Ramayan in global row as Oxford bans Ramanujan essay

BYLINE: By Angshukanta Chakraborty

LENGTH: 450  words


THE RAGING controversy surrounding the essay 300 Ramayanas by A. K. Ramanujan
has taken a dramatic new turn with students of Oxford University coming out with
a vehement condemnation of the move by Oxford University Press ( OUP) India.

Conscientious students, from varied departments at the premier university, have
circulated a draft petition over email, wherein they have vociferously denounced
the act of censure. The students have also organised a panel discussion with
distinguished members of academia on November 30 in their campus.

The panel discussion titled ' The Politics and Culture of Non- State Censorship
in Contemporary India: Contextualising the Ramanujan Ramayana Essay
Controversy', is aimed at drawing attention to what is being touted as " a
worrying trend, of publishers withdrawing, or choosing not to publish books,
bookstores refusing to sell titles, multiplexes choosing not to screen certain
films, that has threatened the very foundation of academic, literary and
artistic freedom in India." Expressing deep regret that OUP India has succumbed
to extra- governmental pressure to curtail academic freedom and has ' watered
down their own standards of excellence in the face of opposition from fringe
groups,' the students at Oxford said in the petition: " OUP India's actions run
counter to the ethos of dissemination, debate and freedom of expression that are
the hallmark of institutions of academic excellence around the world." Expert
comments from OUP India have been limited to the Oxford University Press CEO
Nigel Portwood's perfunctory remarks on the ' commercial viability' of the
decision, thus defending their earlier stance of having issued a letter of
apology to Deena Nath Batra of the Hindutva group Shiksha Bachao Andolan Samitee
in September 2008.

The essay has, since then, been discontinued to be published along with the rest
of the eminent writer's scholarly works in the seminal anthology titled The
Collected Essays of A. K. Ramanujan . Most recently, the essay has been dropped
from the BA Hons syllabus of Delhi University, prompting huge protests and
opposition from students and teachers alike.

While the decision- making bodies in global publishing houses and acclaimed
universities have been supplicating before the Hindutva brigade, intrepid
students and faculty members at the universities have been organising workshops
and seminars to spread the word about the enormous academic and cultural
significance of the essay.

According to an expert academic opinion, " Professor Ramanujan's essay gives a
glimpse of this variety by focussing attention on the differences in
interpretation of some characters, some episodes, between Valmiki and Kamban."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2011 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              698 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Brattleboro Reformer (Vermont)

                              June 29, 2009 Monday

Ceremony honors those who choose their own paths

BYLINE: By JAIME CONE, Reformer Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 374 words


BRATTLEBORO -- Ten graduates received their Bachelor of Arts degrees at the
Union Institute and University in Brattleboro on Sunday afternoon in front of a
crowd of almost 60 family members, friends and other supporters.

Guest speaker Bernice Mennis, a former professor at the institute, spoke of the
courage it takes to go against grain, which is something that many of these
graduates know a lot about.

The Union Institute and University specializes in providing higher education
alternatives to professional individuals, and many of its students work another
job while they complete their degree.

In her speech, Mennis spoke about Wangari Mathaai, who received the Nobel Peace
Prize in 2004 for her work within the green belt movement in Africa, which led
to the planting of 30 million trees.

She was denounced by Kenyan ruler Daniel Moi as a madwoman, Mennis said, "part
of the long history of 'mad' men and women who saw clearly, whom people mocked,
silenced, imprisoned and often killed.

"People who could see, who knew in their hearts they were right, who were
courageous in choosing the path of the heart, of justice, goodness and life ...
how important it is for us to hear their stories." Mennis said.

After her speech, Mennis was given the honor of being named Professor Emeritus.

"Through my 25 years teaching, I have been continually inspired by my students,
who have been my teachers in terms of their courage in choosing to grow," she
said.

Each graduate was presented a diploma by the person of their choosing.

Christina MacDonald, who studied "food, farm, and community," was given her
diploma by her two young children, one of whom she was pregnant with while
studying at the institute full-time.

"My family has been very understanding," MacDonald said. "My husband wanted to
help out because he saw that I was doing what made me happy.

"I think the ability to study what you want to and what you are passionate about
is what sets the school apart," she said.

The graduates who received degrees Sunday are Christina Afante, Faith Kingsbury,
Susan Kropp, Christina MacDonald, Emily Osgood, Sarah Pierce, Kelly Stettner,
Peter Stickney, Clint Taber and Kimberly Ward.

Jaime Cone can be reached at jcone@reformer.com or 802-254-2311, ext. 277.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2009 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              699 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                              July 7, 2009 Tuesday

Getting on the right career course

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 477 words


Post-16 education can be a minefield as youngsters consider their career options
and look for the best educational establishment to provide what they want.

Whether that's going on to study A-levels at the same school or moving to
another, taking up the latest diploma course or choosing a vocational route via
an apprenticeship.

The county is leading the way when it comes to a wealth of courses.

Gloucestershire College, which is the largest in the county and has campuses
offering state-of-the-art equipment in Cheltenham and Gloucester, has an
extensive range of education and training programmes, including A-levels and
GCSEs, vocational qualifications (including apprenticeships), work-based
learning, basic skills courses, higher education, including foundation degrees,
short courses for business, part-time day and evening courses and English for
overseas students.

The college also has a number of satellite sites including the Cheltenham
Technology Centre, dedicated to the provision of construction and engineering
training, in Kingsditch, Cheltenham, and three Gloucestershire College Do IT
centres in Cheltenham, Gloucester and Tewkesbury offering community based
flexible information courses.

College Principal, Greg Smith said: "We were delighted when Ofsted 2008 credited
our facilities as outstanding, and we're proud of the superb learning
environments we provide to our students.

"Our student support teams are always on hand to support learners, helping them
to enjoy their time at college and succeed in achieving their personal
ambitions."

In September a £5.8 million vocational training centre in Tewkesbury will open
its doors to students as Gloucestershire's latest offering to post-16 education.

Tewkesbury Launchpad, on the town's Business Park, is a unique partnership
between Gloucestershire College, Cleeve School, Chipping Campden School and
Tewkesbury School.

It too boasts a state-of-the-art learning environment where students aged 14 to
19 can take up part-time courses in beauty and holistic therapies, hairdressing,
care, catering, construction, building services, engineering, information
technology, retail, and literacy, language and numeracy.

Karen Hanley, head of sixth form at Cheltenham Bournside School, who helps guide
students to the right course, said: "Choosing the right post-16 pathway can be a
real dilemma. There's a myriad of courses that students can chose.

"Here at Bournside we offer 37 AS/A2 courses and the International Baccalaureate
Diploma Programme. Alongside this we provide a comprehensive range of pastoral
support and curriculum enrichment.

"In today's economic climate it's become even more crucial that students select
the right choice of course. Schools more than ever need to support their
students through this difficult decision process, in consultation and
partnership with their parents or guardians."

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 25


                      Copyright 2009 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              700 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                            December 08, 2013 Sunday

Major decision Pairing interests with the right degree not always easy for
students headed to college

BYLINE: Lenore Sobota;lsobota@pantagraph.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 903 words


Somewhere between elementary school and college, the question, "What do you want
to be when you grow up?" switches to "What's your major?"

The average college student changes majors three times, according to a commonly
cited statistic.

Perhaps that shouldn't be surprising considering ACT, the college testing firm,
recently reported that nearly two-thirds of the students taking the test choose
majors that are not a good fit with their interests.

But switching majors can add to the cost of a college education if it delays
graduation.

That's why college officials and high school guidance counselors say it is
important that students find a major that fits their skills, interests and
values rather than one based on what's the "hottest" or most lucrative field -
or what their parents or others tell them they "should" major in.

"I always ask a student who is struggling with this decision, 'What do you
love?' It's so much easier to get better grades in something you love," said
Amelia Noel-Elkins, director of University College at Illinois State University.

University College advises nearly all first-year students at ISU, oversees
orientation and provides assistance with the transition to college, including
selecting a major.

Robyn Walter, career consultant at Illinois Wesleyan University's Hart Career
Center, said many students enter college either uncertain about their major, or
they decide to switch gears.

Both Walter and Noel-Elkins emphasized there's a difference between a major and
a career.

"A major in and of itself isn't going to get you a job," said Walter, citing the
need for experience through internships or related work, even volunteer work.

Noel-Elkins said employers are less interested in an applicant's college major
than in the applicant's critical thinking and communications skills, including
writing and speaking.

The Christmas break is a good time to talk with students - both those in college
and high school seniors - about college majors and careers.

This is particularly true if a student seems stressed or anxious, said
educators.

Walter recommends starting by asking, "How are you doing?" Follow up by asking,
"How can I help you? How can your school's resources help you?" It's also
important to emphasize to students, when deciding on a major or career, "they
don't have to do it by themselves," said Walter.

This also is a good time for students to gather information by asking visiting
relatives or family friends about their careers, noted Brooke Bollman, a
guidance counselor at Normal West Community High School.

Bollman suggested students ask about what they do, where they went to school and
what kind of classes they took.

Tom Frazier, director of the Bloomington Area Career Center, said there are many
good-paying jobs in high-demand areas such as health care, welding and
manufacturing that need post-secondary training, but not a four-year college
degree.

"It's important that parents realize it shouldn't be a social stigma if your kid
doesn't go to a four-year school," Frazier said. "I just want them to be
successful."

Students change majors for many reasons.

Noel-Elkins notes people go through a lot of changes between the ages of 17 and
21.

"When a student picks a major, it's based on the information they have at hand,"
Walter said. "When they get here (to college), they discover more things."

Instead of seeing general education courses as "a box you have to check off,"
Noel-Elkins said, think of them as an opportunity to explore possible majors and
other interests.

Emily Miller, an academic adviser at Heartland Community College, said taking
introductory courses in a field such as business or criminal justice is a good
way for students to see whether it's what they expect or like or - equally
important - don't like.

And if a chosen major isn't working out, rather than feeling "stuck" because it
might take extra time to complete a degree, Miller advises making the needed
change and keeping matters in perspective.

"In the grand scheme of your life, this isn't going to be the big setback you
think it's going to be," Miller said. "At least now you have a plan and are
moving forward."

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Don't do it alone

Career and academic counselors emphasize that students don't need to - and
probably shouldn't - reach decisions about jobs and college majors by
themselves. There are many resources available.

? Take a skills assessment or interest inventory.

? Sign up for a workshop or course on choosing a major or career.

? Seek help from a college adviser.

? Join a club related to a major.

? Talk to a professor about his or her field - what it involves, academic
requirements, why they like it, etc.

? Talk to a professional - what it requires, what is good and bad about it, etc.

? Check out "Choosing a Major" on Illinois State University's website - http:

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Choosing a major/career

? What are your interests?

? What are your strengths and weaknesses?

? What types of jobs might the major lead to?

? What additional education or experience will you need?

? What is the job outlook?

? How much importance do you place on income or prestige?

? Are you seeking an outlet for creativity?

? Do you prefer to work independently or collaboratively?

? Do you prefer consistency or change and variety?

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Pantagraph


                              701 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Greensburg Daily News (Indiana)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           January 25, 2017 Wednesday

COLLEGE BOUND

BYLINE: Eric Wohlford, Greensburg Daily News, Ind.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 836 words


Jan. 25--South Decatur High School seniors Oakley Billingsley and Hunter Seegers
can now say they have lived the dream each has carried inside since they were
old enough to swing a bat and throw a ball.

College baseball, for Billingsley a signed document with Mount St. Joseph
University in Cincinnati, and at Manchester University for Seegers, beckons. The
close friends and lifelong teammates, will, for the first time since they were
12-years-old playing for the Columbus Blazers' travel squad, be separated.

Oddly enough, the two NCAA Division III schools both reside in the Heartland
Collegiate Athletic Conference.

"We'll see each other multiple times," said Seegers, recruited by Manchester to
play either first or third base. "That will be nice."

Billingsley, who will be used as a pitcher at Mount St. Joseph, goes a step
further.

"We have faced each other in practice," said Billingsley. "But we know that is
different. Our competitive juices will set in."

Or, adds South Decatur coach Kyle Degler, "That's when we'll have to take a bus
as a team and witness the action."

First, however, Degler is happy to have both on the Cougars' roster for another
year. Last season, en route to a 10-13 record, Seegers batted .352 with six
doubles, 19 runs scored and a team-best 23 runs batted in.

He also was 2-4 in nine mound appearance. Billingsley was 3-4 in nine
appearances on the bump, and hit .369 with six doubles, a triple and a team-high
three home runs.

He shared the team lead in runs scored (27) and drove home a score of runners.

"These are two very good players that will do anything they can to help the
team," Degler said. "We are blessed to have them."

Seegers joining Kopplin

In choosing Manchester, Seegers is following a path taken by his Uncle Andy
Seegers (a former South Decatur All-State baseball player), and where former
South Decatur pitching ace Taylor Kopplin is currently a junior.

"Honestly, it's mainly a fact that my uncle went there and that I am very
familiar with the program," Seegers said of choosing Manchester. "When I visited
I felt like it was a good fit.

"It was one of the first colleges I talked to, and just felt right."

Seegers, who says he is undecided as to a course of study -- though the exercise
sciences are a likely choice -- says playing college baseball is something he
has aspired to do for quite some time.

"It's been a goal of mine, basically my whole life," said Seegers, who last
summer played with the U.S. Athletics out of Scottsburg. "My family is
surrounded by baseball. It's in our blood."

In addition to his uncle playing at Manchester, Hunter's father, Bill, played
college baseball. Degler simply calls Hunter a "baseball junkie."

"Hunter can play anywhere," Degler said. "If he sees a need, he steps up and
says he will help. He's the perfect utility player in the sense that he is good
wherever you put him.

"He's a perfect fit at Manchester. The size of the school is perfect, it's a
great community and he fits in nicely with what they are doing."

Last year Manchester was 22-19, including a 16-10 record in the HCAC. Kopplin
was an honorable mention all-league choice as a pitcher. However, said Seegers,
first things first.

"I hoping to improve my game, and help South Decatur be as good as we can be,"
Seegers said.

Billingsley to Cincy

A year ago, with expected pitching ace Aaron Haley recovering from an injury,
Degler turned to Billingsley to be his No. 1 pitcher.

The then junior did not disappoint.

"Oak has been that way since he was a freshman," Degler said. "He wasn't very
big, but he gave you everything he had," said the coach. "You could always count
on him to give it his best effort."

Degler expects the same to hold true as Billiingsley moves to the next level.

"I think he can contribute right away," said Degler. "He matured so much between
his sophomore and junior seasons, and just continues to get bigger and
stronger."

Mount St. Joseph finished the 2016 season with a 21-19 record, including a 10-17
mark in the HCAC.

Billingsley, who plans on studying biology with an eye on becoming a physical
therapist, says his visit to Mount St. Joseph made his choice of schools a no
brainer.

"It's a small school, and coming from (South Decatur) I didn't want anything too
big," Billingsley said. "Plus, I liked the team and the coaches and felt right
at home.

"The teammates are close . . . that was important to me."

Billingsley, like Seegers, would like to leave his mark at South Decatur before
he takes his talents to Mount St. Joseph.

"First of all, our goal is to have a winning season," said Billingsley, who last
summer played his summer ball with the Indy Expos. "I'd like to improve my game,
but the biggest thing is to make our team as good as we can be.

"If we're (he and Seegers) at the top of our games, it will go a long way toward
pushing the others to be better."

___ (c)2017 the Greensburg Daily News (Greensburg, Ind.) Visit the Greensburg
Daily News (Greensburg, Ind.) at www.greensburgdailynews.com Distributed by
Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170125-GD-COLLEGE-BOUND-0125-20170125

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GD


                      Copyright 2017 Greensburg Daily News


                              702 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Advocate (Perth, Australia)

                              May 3, 2016 Tuesday
                                  Main Edition

Too many choose easy maths: Prof

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 212  words


PERTH'S four universities say there is an urgent need to reward students who
elect to take higher level mathematics subjects as part of their Australian
Tertiary Admissions Rank.

The move follows concerns that too many students capable of taking more
challenging maths subjects are choosing easier options to gain a higher ATAR
score.

Students can choose from three ATAR maths subjects ranging in difficulty from
Mathematics Applications (easiest) to Mathematics Methods (intermediate) and
Mathematics Specialist (highest level).

UWA professor Alec Cameron said interim enrolment figures indicated that the
proportion of Year 12 students enrolled in medium or higher level mathematics in
2016 had dropped dramatically to almost half that of the previous year.

"This means that students with a reasonable level of ability in maths are
choosing the easier Mathematics Applications course instead of Mathematics
Methods to achieve a perceived ATAR advantage," he said.

"We all agree there is an urgent need to put in place clear and reasonable
incentives for students to choose the highest level of mathematics appropriate
to their aptitude and future aspirations."Business groups consistently identify
poor numeracy skills as barriers to employment and productivity growth
generally.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Canning Community


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              703 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                           September 28, 2009 Monday
                                 Final Edition

After sifting through wild, wacky, Seminole college finds new name

SECTION: SECTION C; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 966  words


Seminole Community College is now Seminole State College of Florida. The
college's Board of Trustees voted for the name after choosing perhaps the most
conventional of 1,007 unique suggestions - - some not so brilliant.

The new name honors our past while setting forth our path to the future,"
College President Ann McGee said in a news release.

Seminole, like Daytona State College and about a dozen other Florida community
colleges, is changing its name as part of the transition to offering four-year
baccalaureate degrees. It will begin offering a bachelor's degree in interior
design in January.

Unlike Daytona -- which stumbled through the name change process by actually
voting for the name "Daytona College," later dropping it, then going to "Daytona
Beach College," before finally settling on Daytona State College in June 2008 --
Seminole opened its process up to the public, accepting suggestions online. And
Seminole got all kinds of suggestions.

There were suggestions named after famous people: Obama State College, Ronald
Reagan State College, Zora Hurston College, Tebow College. And then there were
these: Michael Jackson State College, Billy Mays Memorial College and Bob Saget
State College. Not to mention the suggestion that the institution be named for a
weatherman: Tony Mainolfi State College.

Mainolfi, chief meteorologist at WESH-TV in Orlando, had not heard of his
nomination until contacted by The News-Journal.

I don't know what to say," he said. "This is a first."

Most of the names were geographic in nature. Someone suggested UCLA, the
University of Casselberry, Longwood and Altamonte. Never mind Lake Mary and
Sanford, home of the main campus. And there were the geographically challenged:
Atlantic Coast State College, Panhandle State College, Orlando State College.

There were the Space Coast-themed: Discovery College of Florida, Challenger
State College, Voyager College. And the spacey: Hello Kitty College for the
Cute, Here and Now College, Seminole Universal College of Krunk.

The hyperbolic: The Greatest College On Earth!, Super Cool State College,
Amazingly Awesome State College. And the derisive: Po-dunk College, Bad Parking
University, Lower Daytona State College.

A committee whittled the list down to three for trustees to consider: Seminole
State College of Florida (as there's a school of the same name in Oklahoma),
East Florida State College and Weldon State College, in honor of the school's
first president. In choosing Seminole State, trustees missed an opportunity to
be truly unique and in keeping with the Seminole tradition: One suggestion was
Ah- Tah-Thi-Ki College.

According to the Seminole Tribe of Florida Web site, Ah-Tah-Thi- Ki means "a
place to learn."

CRIME AND THE KOSOVO STATE

Kendra Koivu, a 2002 Stetson alumna working on her doctoral degree in political
science at Northeastern University, will talk about Kosovo at 7 p.m. Tuesday in
Room 122 of the Lynn Business Center, 345 N. Woodland Blvd., DeLand.

Her talk, "Order and Discord in Post-Conflict Kosovo: Organized Crime and the
State," is based on her research into the relationships among organized crime,
markets and the state. Her research has taken her to Kosovo, the disputed Balkan
territory where war broke out in the late 1990s, Finland, Turkey, the
Netherlands and Japan. The lecture is part of a series hosted by the
university's Russian Studies Center.

OPEN HOUSE AT ATC

The Advanced Technology College is hosting an open house from 5 to 7 p.m.
Tuesday to give prospective students more information about programs such as air
conditioning, refrigeration and heating mechanic; computer technology and Web
development.

Daytona State College representatives from admissions, academic advising, dual
enrollment and financial aid will be there to answer questions. Other programs
on display will include: automotive programs, automotive collision repair and
refinishing, cable installation, construction, manufacturing and engineering,
interior design, Internet services, network system developer simulation and
robotics technology.

The ATC is at 1770 Technology Blvd., just off LPGA and Williamson boulevards in
Daytona Beach.

LECTURES EXAMINE MODERNISM

The first of three lectures this fall on "Oscar Bluemner and American Modernism"
this fall at Stetson University is at 7 p.m. Wednesday.

Roberta Smith Favis, Stetson professor of art history and curator of the
university's Vera Bluemner Kouba Collection, will speak in Room 25 of the
Instructional Media Center of Stetson's duPont-Ball Library, 134 E. Minnesota
Ave., DeLand. The room can only be reached from the courtyard on the north side
of the library.

Her talk will focus on "the making" of Bluemner and the movement. Stetson's
extensive collection of Bluemner's works became widely accessible to the public
for the first time this fall, with an exhibition continuing through Dec. 3 at
Stetson's new Homer and Dolly Hand Art Center, 139 E. Michigan Ave.

HEALTH-CARE REFORM TALK

Dr. Mark Hyman, a family physician and nationally known author, will discuss
"Rescuing Health Reform: Treating the Causes of Our Health Care Crisis,"
Thursday at Stetson University.

Hyman's lecture starts at 3 p.m. in the Rinker Auditorium of the Lynn Business
Center, 345 N. Woodland Blvd., DeLand.

He is a faculty member of the Institute for Functional Medicine, an organization
that advocates for a personalized brand of medicine that deals with primary
prevention and underlying causes, instead of symptoms for serious chronic
disease. His work in the field has led him to testify before the Senate Working
Group on Health Care Reform on Functional Medicine and the White House
Stakeholders' Meetings on Prevention and Wellness.

His talk is sponsored by Stetson's Department of Integrative Health Science.--
Compiled by Education Writer Mark Harper

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2009 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2009 News-Journal Corporation


                              704 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Messenger Newspapers

                            August 18, 2016 Thursday

Oxbridge ambition for St Bede's College students as school hits 100 per cent
pass rate

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 714 words


THIS year's results were part of an ongoing upward trend for St. Bede's College
with a 100 per cent pass rate and a third of all grades at A* or A.

There were outstanding results in STEM subjects, with 14 students choosing to
study Maths or the Sciences at Russell Group universities.

Oxbridge ambition realised for two St Bede's students sharing 7A*s

A life-long ambition to study at Oxford was realised for student Rachael Brown.

Four A*s in Chemistry, Further Maths, Maths and Physics secured the teenager a
place at Magdalen College, Oxford to study Chemistry.

"A levels were really tough. I did four and didn't pick the easiest subjects,"
said Rachael, who lives in Northenden.

"I've always wanted to go to Oxford but the exams were really tough and when I
saw how high the grade boundaries were I didn't think I would make it. I've
spent the last four years of my life working to get into Oxford. I can hardly
believe it has happened. I'm in shock."

Fellow student Nick Grogan, from Heaton Moor, Stockport will be studying Maths
at Trinity College, Cambridge after achieving three A*s in Further Maths, Maths
and Physics.

"This is a dream come true, I worked really hard to achieve this and I'm really
looking forward to studying Maths further, I know it's not everyone's dream but
it's mine!" said Nick laughing.

The possibilities are endless for these Mathematicians & Scientists In line with
national trends, maths and sciences have increased in popularity and St Bede's
students are reaping the rewards.

Congratulations go to Dat Minh Doan (A*,A,B) who will be studying Chemistry at
Imperial; Jeremiah Fabode (A,B,C) who will study Mechanical Engineering at
Birmingham; Joseph Hills (A*,A,B) who will be a Biological Sciences student at
Newcastle, Jack Kenyon (3As) who is Sheffield-bound to study Aeronautical
Engineering; Timmy Mak (A*,2As,B) who will study Physics at Birmingham; Deaglan
Nolan (3As,C) who is headed to Imperial College, London, to study Chemistry;
Thomas O'Hagan (A*,2As) who is to study Mathematics at Bristol; Lyndon Odia
(2As,B) a soon-to-be Chemical Engineering student at UCL; Adebiyi Omisakin
(A*,B,C) who is taking a place on a Mechanical Engineering course at Lancaster;
and Danny Ridley (3A*s,B) who is Durham-bound to study Mathematics.

Classical Learning continues in this modern age

St. Bede's continues to support the classics with a 100 per cent pass rate in
both Latin and Classical Civilisation. James Dylak (3As) has continued with his
thirst for knowledge taking up a place at Durham University to read Classics.

The Northern Powerhouse

Business and Economics students secured 100 per cent pass rates in both subjects
with many choosing these subjects for their chosen degree course. Edward Kilroe,
from Hale, is leading the way at Manchester University reading Business
management, which is also the subject of choice for Collette Mitchell at
Liverpool.

They will be joined by Emily Parkar, from Urmston, who is currently choosing
which institution. Beth Wilcox secured an unconditional place at Hull University
to read Business Management and both Valentina Arenyeka and Julius Chike plan to
read Accountancy at a venue to be decided.

Headmaster Dr Richard Robson said: "Today, we are celebrating the achievements
of all our students and it is fantastic to see students like Rachael and Nick
succeeding at the very highest level.

"All of our students have worked extremely hard. Thanks to the hard work and the
supportive environment our staff create at St. Bede's, they have all done
incredibly well. We are very proud of them."

St Bede's College A-level results 2016:

V Arenyeka 2; C Ashton 2; R Barlow 2; R Brown 4; C Campbell 3; P Carberry-Power
3; J Chike 3; C Corcoran 3; O Cunningham 3; D Doan 3; J Dylak 3; K Elias 2; J
Fabode 3; E Faulkner 3; N Grogan 3; T Hadley 3; B Hagan 3; M Hayes 3; J Hills 3;
Z Johnson-Lake 2; E Kaderkutty 3; M Kennedy 3; J Kenyon 3; E Kilroe 3; M
Kitromilides 3; B Lavery 2; C Li 3; D Macmillan 3; T Mak 5; F Mason 3; P
McCormack 3; B McDermott 3; A McHugh 3; C Mitchell 3; D Nolan 4; C O'Brien 3; L
Odia 3; Y O'Hagan 3; A Omisakin 3; E Parkar 3; S Richards 3; D Ridley 4; S
Roachford 3; G Slattery 3; G Sloan 3; L Starkie 3; B Stratford 3; J Thompson 3;
H Visinoni 3; J Ward-Mallinson 3; B Wilcox 3; A Williams 3; T Zhou 3

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              705 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                            August 30, 2014 Saturday

College students want career opportunities;
Survey shows jobs are key to keeping graduates

BYLINE: Thomas Caywood, TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A,3,5

LENGTH: 564 words


WORCESTER -- When choosing a place to live after graduation, the city's college
students have a clear priority, one that's not surprising given the debt many
have racked up during their studies.

They plan to go where they see the best job opportunities and career prospects,
according to a survey released this week by the Worcester Regional Research
Bureau.

"With the debt load, they need income. Finding that place where they can have a
job and a career path is critical for them. We want to make sure Worcester is
one of those places," said Timothy J. McGourthy, executive director of The
Research Bureau.

Local students also ranked housing affordability, crime, social life, cultural
amenities and public transit as import factors in choosing a place to live after
graduation, according to the survey of 260 students at five colleges and
universities in the city.

Worcester's nine colleges and universities produce roughly 6,500 graduates each
year. The Research Bureau sees turning an increasing portion of those educated,
highly qualified young people into residents and a source of employees for local
companies as an important economic development goal.

Less than a quarter of the survey respondents were originally from the area, but
a third reported they planned to live in Worcester or Central Massachusetts
after graduation.

"We've had some success retaining students, but the critical piece of what we
found in this survey is we're not capturing as many as we think we could. The
question is, what more can we do?" Mr. McGourthy said in an interview.

For starters, he said, new initiatives to find students internships at local
companies and to better integrate them into the social fabric of the city will
make Worcester a more attractive place to live.

Clark University senior Chris Canieso said he never had much notion of what
Worcester had to offer until this summer, when he stayed on in the city rather
than spending the break at home in New Haven, Connecticut.

"I absolutely loved it here," he said. "I wasn't on the meal plan, so I finally
went to Coney Island hot dogs. That place is a world wonder."

Mr. Canieso, a psychology major, said he has often heard Clark students
grumbling that Worcester is a cultural wasteland.

"For the first few years, I just sort of followed the stigma that everybody else
was perpetuating. Exploring it for myself definitely relieved me of some of
that," he said.

Mr. McGourthy called for the city to renew its emphasis on luring college
students off their campuses with programs such as downtown concerts and the
Worcester Cultural Coalition's WOO Card, which offers discounts and special
offers at area attractions and cultural events.

"Those are good things to help students feel a connection to Worcester," he
said.

The report also recommends better public transit links between the city's
colleges and universities and entertainment districts.

The majority of the respondents to The Research Bureau survey disagreed with
positive statements about the public transportation, public safety and climate
here.

Slightly less than a quarter of the survey respondents said they plan to live in
the Boston area after graduation, and a substantial portion identified New York
City and California as their destinations when their studies are completed.

Contact reporter Thomas Caywood at thomas.caywood@telegram.com or follow him on
Twitter @ThomasCaywood.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WTG,Magazine


                Copyright 2014 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              706 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             June 4, 2014 Wednesday

Not shying away from English anymore

BYLINE: Yagnesh Mehta

SECTION: SURAT

LENGTH: 331 words


SURAT: Tribal students in south Gujarat have realized that learning English
could better their career prospects.

In the last three years, the number of students taking admission in Veer Narmad
South Gujarat University (VNSGU) has significantly increased. In fact, close to
95% of the students are now opting for English as the medium of instruction as
well as learning the subject in various courses.

According to officials, nearly 70% of the students in VNSGU come from tribal
areas, most of whom have studied in Gujarati medium till class XII. From 25,078
students choosing English subject in 2010, the number has increased to 45,000 in
2013. There are around 50,000 students in VNSGU colleges.

Major graduation courses are Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Commerce (BCom),
Bachelor of Science (BSc), Bachelor of Computer Application (BCA) and Bachelor
of Business Administration (BBA). In these courses, students are supposed to
choose one language in first year and majority are giving preference to English.

"Around 90 per cent students choose English language at time of admission in
graduation courses even if they are from Gujarati medium. This is an encouraging
trend as students are realizing the importance of learning English. Colleges too
are encouraging students to go for English," coordinator of centralized
admission committee in VNSGU K N Chavda said.

A BCom student from Vyara Pravin Chaudhary said, "English is important for
further study and it will also help if I go for a job after graduation. Lack of
knowledge of English limits the scope of jobs."

One more reason rise in number of students choosing English is that the medium
of instruction as well as study material in courses like BSc, BCA and BBA is
available only in Engish. While courses like BA and BCom still have option of
Gujarati language.

"It's a good thing that students are focusing on international language and we
are working to provide them good education," vice chancellor, VNSGU Dakshesh
Thakar said.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              707 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                            January 29, 2012 Sunday
                           4 State / Suncoast Edition

DESIRE FOR CHANGE IN RECRUITING

BYLINE: GREG AUMAN, TIMES STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SPORTS; TAMPA BAY TIMES SURVEY; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 1017 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



HIGHLIGHT: Most respondents want early signing; some still adjust to social
media's impact.


College football's top programs will restock their rosters Wednesday with the
nation's top high school prospects. As another recruiting class is about to
become official, several issues could soon change the nature of the recruiting
process.

What does college football think about recruiting issues? The Tampa Bay
Timessent a short survey to football personnel at all 120 Division I-A programs
last week, asking for responses on a few key topics significant in recruiting.
There were 26 responses, at least one from every I-A conference, and the results
offer a glimpse at how potential changes would be received by the coaching
community.

One change that drew considerable support - 81 percent in our survey - was the
addition of a fall signing period for football, as basketball has. A December
date would allow schools and recruits to make their decisions binding earlier,
with the February period still in place for recruits who want more time to
choose their college after their seasons.

"It enables the school to continue recruiting, knowing a person is not going to
change his mind at the end," said John Ballein, Virginia Tech's associate
athletic director for football administration, who spoke after participating in
the survey.

"Let's say your goal is to sign one quarterback, and a guy commits to you, and
you go all the way up to signing day, then he de-commits that last week and goes
somewhere else. Well, you've (stopped recruiting) everybody else. My belief, and
coach (Frank) Beamer's belief, is an early signing period would reduce some of
those issues."

A larger majority was opposed to the possibility of colleges moving to multiyear
scholarships instead of the current model of one-year renewable scholarships.
Eighty-eight percent said they were against multiyear scholarships, with only
three responses in support of such a change.

The survey asked when it is appropriate for a college to rescind a scholarship
offer, with four options: any time at a school's discretion, when a head
coaching change takes place during the process, when a recruit is still taking
other visits late in the process, or never. More than half, 54 percent, chose
when a recruit is still visiting elsewhere, with 42 percent choosing at the
school's discretion. One response was for the coaching change.

Respondents acknowledged that the advent of social media sites such as Twitter
and Facebook have changed the recruiting process; 58 percent said they use such
sites "very much" in monitoring recruits and where they stand in choosing a
school. The question of whether those sites help or hurt recruiting produced a
divided response.

About 31 percent said social media sites had made recruiting harder, 19 percent
saw no significant change and half said they made recruiting easier, including
11.5 percent who said it was "much easier."

Greg Auman can be reached at auman@tampabay.com and at (813) 226-3346. Check out
his blog at tampabay.com/blogs/bulls and follow him at Twitter.com/gregauman.

* * *

The survey

The questions in and results of a Tampa Bay Times survey of all 120 Division I-A
football programs about recruiting. Twenty-six schools responded.

1. Early signing period

"Would you support an early signing period for high school football players in
December, six weeks before the current signing period?"

Yes: 80.8 percent

No: 19.2 percent

2. Multiyear scholarships

"Are you in favor of schools being required to offer student-athletes multiyear
scholarships, as opposed to ones that are renewable each year?"

Yes: 11.5 percent

No: 88.5 percent

3. Social media

"How has the influx of social media sites such as Twitter and Facebook changed
recruiting for you?"

- Made it much harder: 19.2 percent

- Made it slightly harder: 11.5 percent

- No significant change: 19.2 percent

- Made it slightly easier: 38.5 percent

- Made it much easier: 11.5 percent

"How much do you use social media sites such as Twitter and Facebook to monitor
recruits and where they stand in the recruiting process?"

Very much: 57.7 percent

A little bit: 42.3 percent

Not at all: 0 percent

4. Signing day

"When is it appropriate for a school to rescind a scholarship offer to a recruit
before signing day?"

Any time, at a school's discretion: 42.3 percent

If school changes head coach during recruiting process: 3.8 percent

If player is still taking visits late in recruiting process: 53.8 percent

Never: 0 percent

* * *

Feedback

In a Tampa Bay Times survey of Division I-A programs, several offered responses
to what NCAA recruiting rule they would change. Some responses:

- "Allow schools to pay for transportation for parents to and from an official
visit as well as meals for siblings."

- "Eliminate high school all-star games. Their tie-in with recruiting services
has disrupted the process. In addition, the recruiting services now serve as a
middle man between the institution and the prospect."

- "To allow prospects to take official visits in the summer prior to their
senior year. Prospects are making their school decision earlier and earlier each
year, and this would allow prospects to make more educated decisions."

- "Remove ban on text messaging, relax rules on correspondence, less restrictive
on 'small stuff' and more restrictive on 'big problems.'"

- "The NCAA should de-regulate the communications process. The limits on text
messaging and other electronic forms of communication are outdated and
cumbersome."

- "Allow the head coach to go and recruit during the spring."

- "That a recruit could never come on campus until his senior (year) has begun.
Hopefully this would stop schools from offering kids at such an early age."

- "Early signing period, possibly prior to the start of their senior season. I
would protect the student athlete as well."

- "At this time we are only allowed a certain amount of contacts with the
prospect. I don't feel this is time enough time to properly evaluate a prospect
as a person. You shouldn't be able pull a kid out of class but one day a week.
You should be able to watch athletic contests more than the allotted rules at
this time. Being able to talk to parents at these contests would also be
helpful."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              708 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

Colleges get £16m to create extra places

LENGTH: 592 words



HIGHLIGHT: COLLEGES are to get just over £16 million to help them cope with
increased demand for places in the wake of the recession, Education Secretary
Fiona Hyslop announced today.


The money is part of £28.1 million new funding for the sector, using cash
automatically coming to Scotland as a result of spending decisions in the UK
budget.

A total of £16.1 million will be used to provide thousands of extra places on
courses over the next two years.

A further £12 million will go towards improving college buildings and
facilities.

Ms Hyslop said: "Scotland's colleges have a key role in helping people and
businesses deal with the impact of the economic downturn and ensuring
individuals have the skills and training they need to contribute to this
country's future economic success when the recovery comes."

The Scottish Funding Council has already announced an "above-inflation
allocation" of £572 million for colleges for the next financial year, she went
on.

"Building on that, and in light of the increase in demand for college courses
both from young people choosing to go on to further study and the number of
older learners who are choosing to go to college to improve their future job
prospects, I can today announce a further increase in college funding of £16.1m
over the next two years.

"That equates to more than 3,100 extra full-time places, although in reality the
numbers will be significantly higher given that most college courses are
part-time.

"We are also providing an additional £12m to help colleges undertake
improvements to their existing estate.

"This new funding will ensure that our college campuses continue to provide a
high-quality learning environment for staff and students alike."

College bosses welcomed the money, with Linda McTavish, convener of Scotland's
Colleges Principal's Convention, saying it is "simply great news".

She added: "Colleges across Scotland have seen big increases in applications for
places this year and, without this additional investment, they would have
struggled to cater to the increased demand.

"The real winners from this extra funding are the thousands of Scottish students
who will now be able to access high-quality education and training at their
local college."

And Chris Travis, head of policy and development agency Scotland's Colleges,
said Ms Hyslop had made a "hugely important announcement".

He went on: "Scotland's colleges are often best placed to respond to the effects
of economic downturn by offering retraining and reskilling opportunities to
those finding themselves out of work.

"Equally important is the big rise in demand for college places from school
leavers.

"The Scottish Government has set out the high standards it expects of colleges
and we are determined to respond in a manner which yields maximum benefit to
learners across Scotland."

The money will be distributed by the Scottish Funding Council, which will decide
which colleges will receive a share of the new funding.

Labour's Claire Baker said the funding is "some welcome good news" for colleges.

However the Labour further and higher education spokeswoman said there are "more
fundamental problems in parts of the college sector that this funding will not
solve".

Ms Baker went on: "This will do nothing to solve the endemic problems with
student support we see across the sector.

"Equally the announcement comes at the same time as a number of institutions are
considering large-scale redundancies.

"How can additional places be found, and more students taught, when lecturers
are losing their jobs?

"Fiona Hyslop needs to get a grip of the situation developing in our colleges
and universities.

"While this funding is very helpful, there are still major challenges ahead that
the SNP must not duck."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCOT


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              709 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                           December 6, 2017 Wednesday

Fresh start for school leavers at TAR UC

SECTION: Pg. 25

LENGTH: 584 words


A FOUNDATION forms the bedrock of any structure such as a building which is
visible, as well as in cognitive development, such as education.

For school leavers, who are on the threshold of tertiary education, foundation
studies are important in preparing them for the rigours of higher education.

The Malaysian youths are fortunate to have a variety of choices when it comes to
choosing which institutions of higher learning to pursue their tertiary
education.

However, choosing the right institute can be overwhelming as it is one of the
major decisions a school leaver needs to make to ensure a promising future
career.

Some of the important factors to consider when making such a decision is the
credibility of the institution and content of the syllabi, the teaching and
learning facilities and the affordability of the programme's fees.

Tunku Abdul Rahman University College (TAR UC) has over 49 years of excellence
in providing pre-university education that has nurtured countless students to
unlock their full potential in their tertiary education.

Its foundation programme has been proven to prepare students to pursue Bachelor
degree programmes in TAR UC.

Conducted by the Centre for Pre-University Studies, it is structured to ensure
students gain a deeper understanding of the requisite knowledge so that they are
prepared to continue their studies at the undergraduate-level.

The programme is divided into Foundation in Arts and Foundation in Science. The
Foundation in Arts and Foundation in Science are further divided into two
separate tracks.

Each track is structured with relevant subjects that will help students in their
transition from pre-university level to undergraduate studies.

The syllabus of the programme is designed, developed and delivered with the aim
of equipping students with a solid foundation so that students are able to cope
with the academic demands of TAR UC's Bachelor degree programmes.

It is also designed to stimulate independent learning and thinking skills. The
strength of the programme lies in the ease of progress for the students to
further their studies

Lau Kim Hui, who is studying the Bachelor of Engineering (Hons) Electrical and
Electronics in TAR UC is one of the many students who is reaping the benefits of
pursuing TAR UC's Foundation programme.

"My relatives recommended me to study in TAR UC because it has a good reputation
in terms of providing excellent education. I discovered that what I heard about
this institution is true.

"I completed the Foundation in Science Track A and find the programme
comprehensive and intensive, which helps me to understand the fundamentals of
the degree programme that I'm undertaking."

Jerome Looi Jun Qi, who is pursuing his Bachelor of Business (Hons) Accounting
and Finance in TAR UC's Penang Branch Campus, completed his Foundation in Arts
Track A.

"What attracted me to pursue my foundation course here is the wide selection of
courses available and the affordable tuition fees. Although it is a year-long
programme, its syllabus is comprehensive. This makes the subjects that I am
studying for my degree programme easy to comprehend as I understand the
essential basics which I have gained from my Foundation."

Explore more about TAR UC's Foundation programme at TAR UC's Open Day from Dec
15 to 17 at its Kuala Lumpur Main Campus and branch campuses in Penang, Perak,
Johor and faculty branches in Pahang and Sabah or visit TAR UC's booth at all
major education fairs. Alternatively, Â visit www.tarc.edu.my.Â

( END )

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Excellence in education

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


                              710 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                            August 13, 2009 Thursday

University defends itself over overseas students criticism;
The University of Nottingham has defended itself against criticism of the number
of foreign students it has.

BYLINE: MARCUS BOOCOCK

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 352 words


In a national newspaper report, the university was alleged to be choosing
overseas students ahead of UK ones on financial grounds.

Shadow universities secretary David Willetts said: "The brutal fact is that
foreign students bring in much more money than British ones."

But a spokesman for the University of Nottingham, where more than a quarter of
full-time students were foreign last year, said their hands were tied by the
Government. She said tuition fees paid by UK students only covered a very small
fraction of the cost of running courses.

The rest is made up by funding from the Higher Education Funding Council for
England (HEFCE), which sets a limit on the number of students it can fund per
institution.

In contrast, overseas students pay their entire fees themselves.

"It is not a matter of choosing the overseas students ahead of others simply
because of the fees," said the spokesman.  "We have to follow the guidelines we
are given. Once the Government has set the funding limit that is it.

"The university can't afford to fund more places.

"Similar restrictions do not apply to the recruitment of international students
who play an important part in the life of UK higher education."

In the last academic year, the University of Nottingham had 19,389 UK students
and 7,276 from overseas.

In the engineering faculty, there were more overseas than UK students - 1,350
compared with 1,179.

Higher education action group Universities UK has leaped to the defence of
Nottingham and other institutions in the wake of the criticism.

A spokesman said: "It is completely misleading to suggest that international
students are being given places denied to UK students.

"While grades are important, they are not the only factor in deciding what offer
to make to an applicant, whether home or international -  that's why
universities are always flexible when considering applicants.

"And of course the university will take supply and demand into account -  the
number of applicants will fluctuate from year to year and according to subject.
Offers of places will reflect these factors."

marcus.boocock@nottinghameveningpost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 48


                     Copyright 2009 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              711 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Llanelli Star

                                 March 25, 2009

Uni numbers up

SECTION: Pg. 49

LENGTH: 160 words


The number of teenagers from Llanelli who are choosing to go to university has
increased by more than 10 per cent in the past decade, latest figures show.

Figures released by the Department for Innovation, University and Skills (DIUS)
show the number of 18-year-olds from the South Wales region as a whole going on
to higher education  increased from 1,895 in 1997/98 to 2,110 last year - a rise
of 11.3 per cent.

In Llanelli, the number has risen from 305 in 1997/98 to 340 last year - a jump
of 11.5 per cent.

But Neath has seen the region's biggest rise - from 295 in 1997/98 to 385 in
2007/08 - a rise of 30.5 per cent. Nationally, the numbers of teenagers choosing
to go to university has risen in the past decade.

But 18 constituencies, including Swansea West, have seen a fall in numbers,
while a further eight, including Aberavon, have seen no change since 1997/98.

UK Higher Education Minister David Lammy said the figures showed a 25 per cent
overall increase.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 39


                          Copyright 2009 Llanelli Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              712 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Llanelli Star

                                 March 25, 2009

Uni numbers up

SECTION: Pg. 49

LENGTH: 160 words


The number of teenagers from Llanelli who are choosing to go to university has
increased by more than 10 per cent in the past decade, latest figures show.

Figures released by the Department for Innovation, University and Skills (DIUS)
show the number of 18-year-olds from the South Wales region as a whole going on
to higher education  increased from 1,895 in 1997/98 to 2,110 last year - a rise
of 11.3 per cent.

In Llanelli, the number has risen from 305 in 1997/98 to 340 last year - a jump
of 11.5 per cent.

But Neath has seen the region's biggest rise - from 295 in 1997/98 to 385 in
2007/08 - a rise of 30.5 per cent. Nationally, the numbers of teenagers choosing
to go to university has risen in the past decade.

But 18 constituencies, including Swansea West, have seen a fall in numbers,
while a further eight, including Aberavon, have seen no change since 1997/98.

UK Higher Education Minister David Lammy said the figures showed a 25 per cent
overall increase.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 39


                          Copyright 2009 Llanelli Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              713 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Llanelli Star

                                 March 25, 2009

Uni numbers up

SECTION: Pg. 49

LENGTH: 160 words


The number of teenagers from Llanelli who are choosing to go to university has
increased by more than 10 per cent in the past decade, latest figures show.

Figures released by the Department for Innovation, University and Skills (DIUS)
show the number of 18-year-olds from the South Wales region as a whole going on
to higher education  increased from 1,895 in 1997/98 to 2,110 last year - a rise
of 11.3 per cent.

In Llanelli, the number has risen from 305 in 1997/98 to 340 last year - a jump
of 11.5 per cent.

But Neath has seen the region's biggest rise - from 295 in 1997/98 to 385 in
2007/08 - a rise of 30.5 per cent. Nationally, the numbers of teenagers choosing
to go to university has risen in the past decade.

But 18 constituencies, including Swansea West, have seen a fall in numbers,
while a further eight, including Aberavon, have seen no change since 1997/98.

UK Higher Education Minister David Lammy said the figures showed a 25 per cent
overall increase.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 39


                          Copyright 2009 Llanelli Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              714 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily News (Sri Lanka)

                             March 10, 2009 Tuesday

G.E.L. partners with Singapore education services

LENGTH: 396  words

DATELINE: Colombo


Colombo, March 10 -- As there's an incredible demand from Sri Lankan students to
study in Singapore based colleges and Universities during the last couple of
years.

Global Education Link from Singapore launched the Singapore Education Services
(Pvt) Ltd. The main objective of the Singapore Education Services (Pvt) is to
facilitate the students who are looking for their advanced studies in Singapore,
General Manager G.E.L. Aravindan Regunathan said. "With the internet age and
quick air links the World is getting closer and it is one reason for the Sri
Lankan students choosing to study in Singapore. "By choosing to study abroad in
Singapore, international students have an opportunity to not only be plugged
into an education system that promotes excellence, but also be a part of a
global community. As English is widely used, students will never feel out of
place while experiencing the local culture," Regunathan added. "We are catering
O/L students for Diploma programs and A/L students for the Degree programs." The
Government of Singapore is inviting students with different cultural origins of
other countries to study in Singapore." Over the last four years, GEL has
organized overseas educational visits for more than 500 schools across Asia
mainly from India, China, Vietnam and Indonesia to attract students to study in
Singapore. As we saw the potential we decided to focus on Sri Lanka as well.
These visits were productive as many students of different countries are now in
Singapore to undergo programs of different magnitude, for industry visits and
also to take up short courses. G.E.L is registered under the Ministry of Tourism
Board Singapore and is a part of the Ministry of Education Singapore. There are
list of Universities which has affiliated to the Singapore Institute Of
Management University, the National Universities of Singapore, the Nan Yang
Technological University, the Singapore Management University, MDIS University,
Schools, Educational institutes, and training providers facilitate a wide
variety of options for exchange programs, immersion programs and training
courses for the clients. G.E.L. General Manager Aravindan Regunathan and
Singapore Education Services Manager - Administration G. Chapman in the
exchanging after signing the MoU of the joint partnership.Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Daily News Sri Lanka.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2009 The Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              715 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily News (Sri Lanka)

                              March 9, 2009 Monday

G.E.L. partners with Singapore education services

LENGTH: 396  words

DATELINE: Colombo


Colombo, March 9 -- As there's an incredible demand from Sri Lankan students to
study in Singapore based colleges and Universities during the last couple of
years.

Global Education Link from Singapore launched the Singapore Education Services
(Pvt) Ltd. The main objective of the Singapore Education Services (Pvt) is to
facilitate the students who are looking for their advanced studies in Singapore,
General Manager G.E.L. Aravindan Regunathan said. "With the internet age and
quick air links the World is getting closer and it is one reason for the Sri
Lankan students choosing to study in Singapore. "By choosing to study abroad in
Singapore, international students have an opportunity to not only be plugged
into an education system that promotes excellence, but also be a part of a
global community. As English is widely used, students will never feel out of
place while experiencing the local culture," Regunathan added. "We are catering
O/L students for Diploma programs and A/L students for the Degree programs." The
Government of Singapore is inviting students with different cultural origins of
other countries to study in Singapore." Over the last four years, GEL has
organized overseas educational visits for more than 500 schools across Asia
mainly from India, China, Vietnam and Indonesia to attract students to study in
Singapore. As we saw the potential we decided to focus on Sri Lanka as well.
These visits were productive as many students of different countries are now in
Singapore to undergo programs of different magnitude, for industry visits and
also to take up short courses. G.E.L is registered under the Ministry of Tourism
Board Singapore and is a part of the Ministry of Education Singapore. There are
list of Universities which has affiliated to the Singapore Institute Of
Management University, the National Universities of Singapore, the Nan Yang
Technological University, the Singapore Management University, MDIS University,
Schools, Educational institutes, and training providers facilitate a wide
variety of options for exchange programs, immersion programs and training
courses for the clients. G.E.L. General Manager Aravindan Regunathan and
Singapore Education Services Manager - Administration G. Chapman in the
exchanging after signing the MoU of the joint partnership.Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Daily News Sri Lanka.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2009 The Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              716 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             July 11, 1995 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

Providing an education for life

SECTION: NEWS; Advertising Feature; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 381 words


EVERYTHING changes with time, and boarding schools are no exception.

People who have been brought up on late-19th-century English novels shudder at
the thought of boarding.

Today, schools such as Luther College offer students a relaxed, caring and
secure environment that aims to be as home-like as possible, but with some added
benefits.

There are many reasons for choosing boarding, which is increasingly being used
by city students as well as those coming from further afield.

Boarding eliminates the necessity of long hours of daily travel as well as
providing an environment conducive to study, an important aspect at VCE level.
Library and computer facilities are on hand, as well as recreational
opportunities.

It is a bonus for overseas students if the school of their choice has boarding
facilities.

Living in a close-knit community where there is always a friend to help with
school or study problems can make growing up in these confusing times a little
easier.

Family pressures may be another reason for choosing a boarding school. Parents
can be secure in the knowledge that their children are under constant care and
supervision.

Luther College, a coeducational school of the Lutheran Church of Australia,
accepts boarders from years 7 to 12 and has a mix of students from Melbourne,
rural Victoria and overseas.

An overnight orientation program for new boarders and their parents that is held
at the start of the year can help ease the transition from home to boarding
school.

The school's accommodation for boarders provides single or share rooms, with the
girls living in home-style cottages.

At Luther College boys and girls mix naturally under the supervision of resident
boarding house staff, which can help them to learn about social relationships
without the dangers often associated with such maturation. This is an aspect
that many students and parents appreciate.

Boarders are invited to become involved in a variety of co- curricular
activities, both for personal and community development.

Luther College aims to educate the whole person, and to this end staff monitor
each child's progress.

The help of two chaplains and a professional counsellor can also be enlisted.
The school communicates with parents regularly and invites them to take part in
the life of the school.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1995 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              717 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Arizona Capitol Times

                            March 13, 2014 Thursday

Anti-Common-Core bills clear hurdle, but face likely defeat in Arizona Senate

BYLINE: Gary Grado

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 522  words


Republicans who helped kill a bill that would have dumped Common Core last week
gave preliminary approval Wednesday to two measures that are hostile to the
learning standards.

Though they cleared floor debate, SB1395 and SB1396, bills that would allow
school districts to opt out of Common Core and allow them to develop their own
learning standards are unlikely to win final approval in the chamber. When the
Senate considered a bill on March 5 that would have barred the state from
implementing the standards, five Republicans sided with the Democrats to kill
the measure on a 12-18 vote.

That bill, SB1310, gained preliminary approval in the Committee of the Whole on
March 4 and failed the next day on a final floor vote when Republican Sens. Adam
Driggs, John McComish, Steve Pierce, Michele Reagan and Bob Worsley sided with
Democrats against the bill.

Common Core, a set of math and English standards the state Board of Education
adopted in 2010, has pitted Democrats and moderate Republicans against the more
conservative wing of the GOP. The standards, known locally as the Arizona's
College and Career Ready standards, have been adopted in 45 states, and the
state board is currently in the process of choosing an achievement test that
aligns with the standards.

The Republican argument in the debate over SB1395 and SB1396 centered on local
control being turned over to a nationalization of education while Democrats
argued that previous standards don't match the quality of Common Core.

Sen. Chester Crandell, R-Heber, said Common Core is too prescriptive and will
eventually lead to a universal curriculum.

"It puts everybody into a box," Crandell said.

The Senate approved an amendment Crandell offered to SB1396 that prohibits the
state board from choosing the Partnership for Assessment of Readiness for
College and Career test, one of the likely bidders, which has Arizona Department
of Education staffers in key positions.

Senate President Andy Biggs, R-Gilbert, said an example of the further
nationalization of education is the U.S. Department of Education urging the
major college entrance examinations to become aligned to Common Core.

"The idea that we have local control on some issues and not on this issue is
mind boggling to me," Biggs said.

Sen. Lynn Pancrazi, D-Yuma, said Republicans tend to pick and choose when to
grant local control.

"You take away the cities' and counties' local control every time you turn
around," Pancrazi said.

The two bills have to get a final approval of the Senate, the House and the
governor's signature.

A fourth Senate bill, SB1388, which requires school districts to develop their
own standards has not yet made it to the floor. HB2316, a bill that prohibits
the state Board of Education or Superintendent of Public Instruction from
adopting federally mandated standards or curricula passed the House Monday on a
partisan 33-22 vote and has been assigned to the Senate Education Committee.

Gov. Jan Brewer has long supported the new standards.

http://www.azcapitoltimes.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from
this resource.

© 2014 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Government activity

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              718 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          Weston and Somerset Mercury

                             June 25, 2015 Thursday

Girls encouraged to give science a go in annual presentation day

BYLINE: David Spear

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 238 words


BUDDING young female scientists of the future were shown a glimpse of life in
the industry at an annual event at a Weston school this week.



Broadoak Mathematics and Computing College played host to the seventh Skirting
Science day run by Soroptimist International, and aims to encourage girls who
are soon to make their GCSE choices towards choosing science subjects at
university or as a career path.

More than 180 students from Weston, North Somerset and Bristol attended and were
treated to classes from a variety of professional groups including Airbus, Rolls
Royce and the James Dyson Foundation.

Ann Kesteven, part of the organising team, said: "In the seven years we have
been doing this we have always had some good names coming along. We want to give
girls an interest in choosing science as a career path.

"One of the speakers we had in said she hadn't had any experience of seeing
female scientists when she was the age of these guys, and all her science
teachers were male.

"There's no reason why girls shouldn't get an awful lot from a career in
science."

The girls took part in exercises like separating blood, building their own
robots and saving a hardy Lego man from drowning in his cup and skewer house.

One of the pupils present, 15-year-old Georgia Tucker, said after the event: "I
liked the variety of topics and seeing the differences. It influenced me in my
college choice. I found some jobs I didn't know existed."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WSM


                    Copyright 2015 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              719 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 23, 2013 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Choosing Child Care When You Go Back to Work

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1452 words


The largest financial commitment that many new parents make is also the most
emotional: choosing a full-time caregiver for your child as you head back to
work.

As many parents know all too well, it's a giant expense, often second only to
housing costs. Many families pay the equivalent of college tuition, and that's
not for a high-priced nanny who can teach your child to speak Mandarin. It's for
day care. In 31 states and the District of Columbia, the annual average cost for
putting an infant in a day care center full time was higher than a year's
tuition and fees at a four-year public college in that state, according to a
study released this month by Child Care Aware of America, a nonprofit group
whose members include child care referral agencies.

Add a second child to the mix and suddenly the costs of full-time day care --
for an infant and a 4-year-old -- exceed the annual median rent payments in
every state, according to the analysis, which uses 2012 data from the Child Care
Resource and Referral's state networks and local agencies.

Incorporating this expense into the family budget is disruptive, to say the
least. Couples who are saving respectable amounts for retirement and other
financial goals, whether for a down payment or a vacation home, can easily fall
off track. ''The costs are what they are, usually, and you just have to do your
best,'' said Annette Clearwaters, a financial planner in Manhattan.

Entrusting your little one to a caregiver isn't exactly the time to
bargain-hunt, either, though some guilt-ridden parents may feel they need to
spend more than they actually do. But families across all income levels will
need to run the numbers. That includes trying to anticipate unexpected costs,
and perhaps even considering options, like an au pair, that you may have
previously thought were out of reach.

Here is a primer on what to expect on prices and tax breaks, as well as advice
on how to approach this decision.

HOW MUCH CAN I AFFORD? You probably intuitively know how much you can generally
afford to spend without making drastic changes to your lifestyle. But if you
were to sit down with Kristin Harad, a financial planner in San Francisco whose
firm, VitaVie Financial Planning, focuses on new parents, she would make sure
you ''know your numbers.'' That includes how much income you have, figuring out
your fixed costs (like your mortgage or rent, and making sure they are still
feasible), how much you want or can continue to save for other financial goals
and what varies month to month, items like dinners out and groceries.

Unless your income is expected to rise, something else will probably have to be
trimmed, whether that is dialing down your savings or shaving your discretionary
spending. ''We talk a lot about how much they are willing to give up something
else to pay for the more expensive care,'' Ms. Harad said. ''With the first
child especially, you have never done it before so you're going to be more
nervous. But as you eventually see, children can thrive in different
environments, so you can use a day care or a shared nanny and realize you are
not a horrible parent and the child is actually engaged and enjoying it.''

Nor do your choices have to be restricted to one arrangement. ''Sometimes they
go to day care three days and have a nanny for two days,'' Ms. Harad said.
''There is no black or white answer but a whole array of gray options.''

WHAT OPTIONS COST Some parents believe that the group dynamics of day care will
help prepare their child for the world, or at least kindergarten, while others
are willing to pay top dollar for a responsive nanny who won't be distracted by
other children. But for many families, the arrangement will largely be driven by
what they can afford.

In most child care situations, costs tend to vary by the child's age, the hourly
commitment each week and where you live. According to Child Care Aware's
research, in the District of Columbia, the average cost of full-time day care
for an infant was $21,948 annually. In Massachusetts, it was $16,430 a year, and
in New York, $14,939.

Nannies typically cost more, though they can often become more cost-effective
when you have more than one child. According to Care.com, the national average
hourly rate for nannies is $11.73 and ranges from $8.26 to $15.19 an hour,
depending on the state; those figures reflect the rates posted on a sampling of
the 150,000 job postings on their website for roughly the last year. The nanny
pay scale rises in expensive metropolitan areas, of course, including New York.
Parents who employ nannies in brownstone Brooklyn, for instance, pay anywhere
from about $12.75 to $19.25 an hour, according to Park Slope Parents, a local
parents group.

When you consider those numbers, au pairs start to seem like a relative bargain,
as long as you have an extra bedroom, provide meals and don't mind the live-in
arrangement. Au pairs -- who are 18 to 26 years old and in the United States on
a special cultural exchange visa regulated by the State Department -- generally
live with a family for a year, but they can stay up to two years. Cultural Care
Au Pair said it generally cost $355 a week (less than $8 an hour for a 45-hour
week, or about $18,000 annually) to hire an au pair, but that includes items
like their medical and travel insurance. Another agency, Au Pair in America, had
similar pricing.

UNEXPECTED COSTS Several not-so-obvious costs may also arise. Do you need
another caregiver when day care is closed or when the nanny is on her (paid)
vacation? Some parents are also surprised when it comes time to pay a nanny's
holiday bonuses (a week to two weeks of pay). There are also the complex tax-
and insurance-related requirements of becoming someone's employer. ''Most
families don't realize that once they bring a provider in the home and they earn
$1,800 a year or more, that quickly you become an employer,'' said Donna Levin,
co-founder of Care.com.

TAX BREAKS A couple of tax breaks may defray costs. If your employer offers
flexible spending accounts for dependent care, this is usually the better option
for higher-earning couples: You can set aside up to $5,000, before taxes, to pay
for child care for children under 13, according to Berdon, a New York accounting
firm.. Alternatively, you may be eligible for the child and dependent care
credit, which reduces your tax bill by 20 to 35 percent of the child care costs
(up to a maximum of $3,000 in qualifying expenses for one child, and $6,000 for
two or more). The credit decreases as your income rises.

WHAT YOU RECEIVE You need to think through what life will be like with each
option. Can you handle the stress of getting your infant or toddler up, fed,
dressed and ready for day care each morning while also getting yourself out the
door? It's certainly easier to have Mary Poppins show up and take over while you
have your coffee. But if Mary gets sick, you'll need backup care. On the other
hand, if your day-care-bound child gets sick, you'll also need backup. And if
you're caught at work, Mary might be willing to stay late, while day care will
count the minutes and charge you for them.

On the other hand, day care may help with socialization and might have your
child painting and learning sign language before she can talk. A social nanny
can make up for that, with one-on-one attention, play dates and other outings.
Or you can double up and share a nanny.

SHOPPING FOR CARE Parents need to comparison shop, bringing along the usual
lists of questions to keep track of who is certified in cardiopulmonary
resuscitation, among other things. But the single most important variable may be
far simpler than what many new parents think.

''When it comes to quality of care, it really boils down to the relationship
between that child and the people who are taking care of that child,'' said
Walter S. Gilliam, associate professor of child psychiatry and psychology at the
Yale School of Medicine. ''Regardless of what choice you make, you need to form
a strong relationship with the child care provider and feel O.K. about it,
because your child will be reading those cues.''

At day care, child to caregiver ratios matter, to some extent. For babies up to
about a year to 18 months, he prefers two children per caregiver, but he said he
could live with three to one. For the toddler, he prefers three children for
every provider, but four to one is acceptable. And at about 3 years old, seven
children per adult is all right. ''But again, it really depends on what the
'one' is like,'' he said.

''Costs can be really, really high,'' Dr. Gilliam said. ''But the reality is,
many parents think if it costs more, it is better, and that is not necessarily
the case.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/23/your-money/choosing
-child-care-when-you-go-back-to-work.html

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Walter Gilliam, a Yale professor, says, ''You need to form a
strong relationship with the child care provider and feel O.K. about it.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) DRAWING
(DRAWING BY ROBERT NEUBECKER) (B1)
 MAP: Comparing Child Care Costs: Full-time child care is a large expense, but
the cost varies regionally and  by state with some scattered outliers among the
highest. (Source: ''Parents and the High Cost of Child  Care 2013 Report,''
Child Care Aware of America) (B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              720 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              June 4, 2013 Tuesday

Mission admission: Guiding youth to the right career

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 215 words


MUMBAI: More than hundred students attended the first Mission Admission workshop
organized by The Times of India on Monday when they were introduced to an array
of career options they can choose from.

"The students were told that each of them, irrespective of their marks and
ability, have several options open to them when it came to choosing a course and
career. We explained to them that choosing the right career should not be about
their marks, but about their interests, aptitude and personality," said Pranav
Gandhi, CEO of YoungBuzz. The workshop, which was held at Manik Sabhagriha
Auditorium, IES, in Bandra (W), is supported by YoungBuzz and Eduabroad
Consulting.

Principal of St Andrew's College Marie Fernandes was the first speaker at the
event. "I tried to introduce students to the various university courses,
including mass media, hospitality, science and literature. Students had several
questions, especially about the online process," said Fernandes.

Spread over three days and various venues in the city, students will get the
opportunity to interact with college principals, career counsellors and experts,
who can guide them individually, according to each one's aptitude and
requirements. The candidates can also take an aptitude test and find out where
their interests lie.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              721 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           October 16, 2010 Saturday

More S'poreans in European varsities;
Cheaper tuition fees, strong research tradition among reasons for rise in
enrolments

BYLINE: Jennani Durai

LENGTH: 616 words


SINGAPOREAN students are now increasingly flocking to European universities for
higher studies.

In the last five years, there has been a 50 per cent increase in student visas
issued to Singaporeans going to universities in Europe, not counting Britain.

Countries which have seen the biggest spikes in Singaporean student enrolment
include Norway, Sweden, Finland and the Netherlands, said a spokesman for the
European Union delegation based in Singapore.

The numbers are small, but growing. Organisers of the annual Study In Europe
Fair said applications for student visas to Europe jumped from 1,151 for the
academic year 2005-2006, to 2,119 for the academic year 2009-2010. Those
applying for visas are a mix of exchange, undergraduate and graduate students,
said the EU spokesman.

This year's fair is on today at the Hilton Hotel from 10am to 5.30pm.

The number of Singaporeans choosing to further their studies in the United
States has held steady at 4,000 for the last five years. Double that number are
studying in Australia, while there are nearly 3,500 Singaporeans enrolled in
British universities.

Fields Singaporeans commonly pursue in Europe include engineering, business,
medicine, social sciences and music, said Ambassador Holger Standertskjold from
Finland, the head of the EU delegation.

Among the reasons Singaporeans cite for choosing Europe are the cheaper tuition
fees, a strong research tradition, the increasing prominence of English there
and the desire to take a road less travelled.

The majority of European universities are public, which are typically cheaper
than private institutions, said Mr Standertskjold.

'Since public universities are funded by national governments, expenses for
study, even for foreigners, are significantly lower than at private
institutions,' he said. This was because Europeans believed that a university
education was a universal right, he added.

Ms Keung Xizhen, 22, who is studying biology in Germany, said most of the
Singaporeans she has met there are not scholarship holders.

'A lot of people come here on their own because education is quite cheap. It can
range from a completely free bachelor's degree to about  1,000 (S $1,800) a
year,' she said.

While some students, like Ms Keung, chose a European country to become
proficient in another language, the spreading use of English across Europe is a
draw for others.

Mr Standertskjold said all EU countries now offer a variety of disciplines in
English.

Ms Leanne Quek, who studies in Norway, said this was partly why she hardly felt
any culture shock upon arriving in Oslo.

'It feels very much like Singapore. People speak English, it is very developed,
and the transport infrastructure is excellent,' said the 22-year-old business
student, adding that she chose Norway because not many Singaporeans went there.

Dr Ole Jakob Sordalen from the Royal Norwegian Embassy said Ms Quek's reason,
that of wanting to be different, was a common one. Norway has seen one of the
biggest jumps in student visa applications. Only 83 Singaporeans applied for
visas in 2005, but the number jumped to 234 last year.

He said: 'They want to be a little adventurous and distinguish themselves, both
with a different yet high-quality education, and a different cultural insight
than that acquired by other students.'

Being the only Singaporean in class was exhilarating and yet challenging, said
Mr Teo Kai Xiang, 26, a litigator who took postgraduate modules in Belgium.

'Most of the students there come from European countries and form cliques fast,
so it takes some time to break into their social circles. You need to have a lot
of initiative, but once you get to know them, they are great,' he said.

jennanid@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2010 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              722 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 23, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Traveling the Road to Softball Success;
Select Teams Offer Girls Room for Improvement

BYLINE: Alan Goldenbach, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOUDOUN EXTRA; Pg. T14

LENGTH: 563 words


Whitney Knudsen knows that choosing a travel softball team is not a decision to
be made lightly. After all, her Fire-N-Ice team spends about 11 months of the
year together, playing in tournaments or practicing indoors during the winter.

"You look at your friends on your team almost like sisters," said Knudsen, a
rising junior at Loudoun County. "It's basically everything you want in a team
because you're going to be with them all year long. You better pick a team with
people that you like."

For teenage boys, choosing a summer league baseball team is pretty easy. All
they have to do is find the nearest American Legion squad. If they want a
different challenge, there are wood-bat leagues and a few AAU squads. That's
about it.

In softball, however, choices are plentiful. As the sport boomed in Loudoun
County over the past decade, seeing girls change teams each year in search of
increased competition has become commonplace.

"I picked Fire-N-Ice because of the competition," said Lori Potts, a senior at
Loudoun Valley. "We travel to showcase tournaments, where [college] coaches can
ask our coaches about us."

Eight years ago, a group of young girls from Sterling formed Blue Ice, which had
success in local leagues. Two years later, that team moved to tournaments in the
Washington area and won there, as well. Then, Blue Ice decided to join the
national scene and won the PONY national title in its respective age bracket for
two consecutive years.

The majority of Blue Ice players were teammates at Park View and led the
Patriots to the Virginia AA championship this month. It would seem ideal that
travel teams be structured this way as an offseason extension of the high school
team, giving the team more opportunities perfect its chemistry.

The group of girls that made up Park View and Blue Ice, however, was an anomaly.
Many of the players have since moved to different teams.

"A lot of times everyone on a high school team is not on the same level," said
Park View pitcher Karie Morrison, who moved from Blue Ice to Fire-N-Ice this
year.

On Blue Ice, "we all started softball at the same time, we all lived around each
other, we went to school together," she said. "But [finding a group of girls
like] that doesn't really happen too much."

Fire-N-Ice has 15 players from eight schools, including Park View, Loudoun
County, Loudoun Valley, Potomac Falls and four in Prince William County. It
attracts players from such a wide area that playing in a local league would not
make sense.

"Tournament travel teams, like us and the Shamrocks, travel long distances to
compete," said Fire-N-Ice assistant coach Bill Bennett, in his seventh year with
the team. "If you stay local, the competition will not be tough. If the
Shamrocks and us played in a Fairfax County league, we would blow everyone away.
. . . Recruiting from one high school team wouldn't necessarily produce the same
quality of girls."

Besides, some teams are created on friendships made long before high school.
Most girls have been playing competitive softball since elementary school and
prefer to stay with a particular group of friends regardless of where they
attend high school.

"It just doesn't happen," Fire-N-Ice Coach Howard Bailey said of high school and
travel teams sharing the same rosters.

"It's one of those deals that wherever your friends go, that's where you'll go."

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              723 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 18, 2014 Saturday

Pennsylvania: Coordinator Offers Advice on How to Choose a Major for Sophomores

LENGTH: 222  words

DATELINE: Harrisburg


York College of Pennsylvania, The State of Pennsylvania has issued the following
News release:

Choosing a major is arguably the most important decision you will make in
college, especially because it can affect your career choices after graduation.

Still, not knowing what to study when first starting college is normal. Your
early years are the perfect time to explore your interests and figure out what
you love doing. In fact, "between 20% and 50% of college students enter their
first year undecided about their major," says David M. Tirpak, assistant
director of career and employment counseling at Howard Community College in
Columbia, Maryland, citing well-known statistics.

What's more, graduating in four years is no longer the norm for most students.
According to a report by the U.S. Department of Education, about 59% of college
students seeking a bachelor's degree now take six years to graduate. With fewer
students completing their degrees in four years and borrowing more student loans
in the process, choosing a major before your junior year is crucial to staying
on track.

We asked college advisors to share their best tips on how to choose a major
that's right for you. Follow these steps to get started

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              724 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                             April 25, 2011 Monday

Students push college decision down to the wire

BYLINE: By Amelia Robinson Staff Writer

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 614 words


Chadwick T. Warhola spent the weekend weighing what would be super sensible
against what would be super fun.

He could fulfill his longtime dream of attending the University of Michigan in
spirited, college football-crazed Ann Arbor, Mich. Or the 18-yearold could save
$20,000 a year on tuition by heading north on Interstate 71 to study in the Case
Western Reserve University superior biomedical engineering department.

It's been very difficult. Basically, it's choosing the more mature option or
Michigan, where it is more exciting," the Xenia High School senior said. "Of
course it will be more fun and more full of life at Michigan opposed to
Cleveland and the lake-effect snow."

Time for pondering has just about run out for Warhola and other seniors still
weighing which college to attend this fall.

Many colleges and universities have set May 1 as the deadline for responses to
acceptance letters and for housing.

Richard Settersten, an Oregon State University professor of human development
and family sciences, said a growing amount of emphasis has been placed on
picking the right college, often leading to anxiety for students and parents.

"There's a lot at stake for kids and parents today, especially in the middle
class. From the time they are born, so much is invested in kids," said
Settersten, the co-author of the book "Not Quite Adults: Why 20-Somethings Are
Choosing a Slower Path to Adulthood, and Why It's Good for Everyone." "It all
comes down to this moment. It's a big deal for a student and it's a big deal for
their parents. Parent successes are also kind of wrapped up in successes for
their kids."

Settersten said today's youth fear "locking in too soon."

"Probably from the time they are born, they are led to believe they can do and
be everything," he said. "Picking the right college is tied to making the right
future."

Settersten said students must consider factors like where they will fit in, how
much they can afford along with educational opportunities available at the
schools they consider.

"It's a giant school, and you are a smaller school person," he said. "All of us
learn in unique ways."

Still, Settersten's studies suggest that while there is danger in picking a
school below one's capacity, often times an education from a slightly
"lower-tiered" college can be comparable to one higher, he said.

"Sometimes the Corolla is as good as the Mercedes. They both get you to the same
place," he said. "Sometimes the Corolla might be a better choice than the
Mercedes."

Xenia High School senior Jonathan Rose wants a smaller college, where he can
play baseball and study to be a civil engineer.

"Trying to find a small school with civil engineering is a lot harder than a lot
of people think," the 18-year-old said.

He's narrowed it down to Trine University in Angola, Ind.; Rose-Hulman Institute
of Technology in Terre Haute, Ind.; Ohio Northern University in Ada; and
Sinclair Community College, with the intention to later transfer to University
of Dayton. Although he's typically quick to get tasks done, Rose said he is
taking his time on this issue.

"I don't want to go to a school that I am counting down (to graduation). I want
to enjoy myself and get and a good education," he said, noting that his parents
are letting him make the decision on his own. "I think it's a step from teenager
to adulthood."

Robert Rose, a Xenia high math teacher, said he is pleased his son is
considering everything from long-term debt after graduation to the school's
distance from home.

"We want him to go where he will get a great education, can be happy and can
play baseball," the elder Rose said.

Contact this reporter at (937) 225-2384 or arobinson@Dayton DailyNews.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Xenia High School senior Jonathan Rose, shown with his parents Karen
and Robert, is weighing the pros and cons of going to college in Indiana where
he can play baseball. He is also thinking about Sinclair College where he can
save money and then transfer to University of Dayton and hopefully play
baseball. Staff photo by Jim Noelker

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              725 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                            January 27, 2008 Sunday
                                  ALL EDITION

IT'S OK IF PARENTS HOVER, STUDENTS SAY

BYLINE: Heather LaRoi

SECTION: LOCAL; ON CAMPUS; Pg. D9

LENGTH: 840 words


Helicopter parents - those who hover over their students' every decision - have
triggered both concern and jests in recent years, but most students are A-OK
with mom and pop getting involved.

Indeed, more than three-quarters of freshmen (84 percent) think their parents'
level of involvement in their college experience is the "right amount,"
according to the annual freshman survey conducted through the Higher Education
Research Institute at UCLA and released this past week.

When it comes to choosing courses, one in four students overall actually wanted
more parental input.

The annual poll surveyed more than 270,000 first-time, full-time students at 356
colleges and universities nationwide as part of the Cooperative Institutional
Research Project.

Other findings:

* Academic quality is the top reason for choosing a college, according to more
than 63 percent of students. It's the highest this figure has been in 35 years.

* While three-quarters of freshmen (76 percent) say they use the Internet
frequently for research or homework, only about one-third (35 percent) regularly
evaluate the quality or reliability of the information found there.

* Half of students surveyed reported spending one to five hours per week on
social networking sites like Facebook or MySpace.

* More than half (52 percent) of entering freshmen claim it's one of their goals
to improve their understanding of other countries and cultures. That's up 10
percent from 2002, when the question was first asked.

For more on the report, visit www.gseis.ucla.edu/heri.

STUDENTS JOIN CHANCELLOR SEARCH

Two UW-Madison students will round out the search-and-screen committee charged
with coming up with a short list of candidates to become the university's next
chancellor.

With the university back in session, UW System President Kevin Reilly added
Suchita Shah and Erik Paulson, both members of Associated Students of Madison,
to the 23-member committee previously announced.

Shah, from Holmen, is a senior majoring in biology.

Paulson is a third-year Ph.D. student in computer science from Chippewa Falls.
He earned his bachelor of science degree in computer sciences from UW-Madison as
well.

Previously, Regent Colleene Thomas, also a UW-Madison student, was named the
first student regent to serve on the special Board of Regents chancellor
selection committee. That committee will review the expected five finalists.

COLLEGE STUDENTS THINKING GREEN

It's being touted as the largest teach-in ever.

Later this week, UW-Madison and Madison Area Technical College will be among
more than 1,000 educational institutions nationwide to participate in Focus the
Nation, a simultaneous teach-in on global warming solutions designed to prepare
and inspire students to step up to meet the challenge.

"It represents the enormous power that youth have when they use their education
to create positive change in the world," said UW-Madison zoology professor James
Pawley.

Both campuses will feature a broad array of events, exhibits and speakers,
including "The 2 Percent Solution," a live interactive Webcast produced by the
National Wildlife Federation, and presentations by Jon Foley, founder and
director of UW-Madison's Center for Sustainability and the Global Environment.

Activities at UW-Madison take place Wednesday and Thursday. MATC's events run on
Thursday.

For more on the initiative, visit www.focusthenation.org.

WISCONSIN INSTITUTES OF DISCOVERY STARTED

Work is just getting under way on the Wisconsin Institutes of Discovery, the
future campus hub for interdisciplinary scientific collaboration in biomedicine.

The 1300 block of University Avenue will be the center of the action.

The demolition of the existing buildings is slated to begin in late February or
early March. The Madison Environmental Group and Habitat ReStore, who will lead
the salvage operation, hope to recycle 80 percent of the materials from the
existing buildings.

With the construction, there will be some minor changes in motor vehicle,
bicycle and pedestrian traffic along University Avenue. All three traffic lanes
on University Avenue have been shifted but will remain open for the duration of
construction.

SCHOOL OF PHARMACY MARKS MILESTONE

With everything from banners to lectures and a special Babcock Hall Dairy ice
cream created in its honor, the UW-Madison School of Pharmacy will be
celebrating its 125th anniversary this year.

It's come a long way since 1883, when pharmacist and phytochemist F.B. Power -
armed with an annual budget of $11,000 - led the university to offer its first
pharmacy classes in South Hall on Bascom Hill.

Since then, the school has claimed numerous "firsts" in the world of
pharmaceutical education, including the first bachelor of science degree in
pharmacy in the United States; the first Ph.D. degrees in the U.S. in
pharmaceutical chemistry, social studies in pharmacy and pharmaceutical
extension; and the first Ph.D. degrees in the world in pharmaceutics, the
history of pharmacy and pharmacy administration.

For more on the celebrations, visit www.pharmacy.wisc.edu/125th.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              726 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            August 10, 2006 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GIRLS' SOCCER STAR CHOOSES N.C.;
KLINGENBERG WILL ACCEPT HALF-SCHOLARSHIP

BYLINE: MIKE WHITE, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: SPORTS; RECRUITING; Pg. D-7

LENGTH: 242 words


A WPIAL soccer player's college choice usually isn't big news. But Meghan
Klingenberg's recent college selection is noteworthy.

Klingenberg, a senior on the Pine-Richland girls' team, has made a verbal
commitment to the University of North Carolina. Klingenberg, the Post-Gazette
Player of the Year in 2005, will sign a letter of intent with the Tar Heels in
November.

Choosing North Carolina would be like a WPIAL basketball player choosing UCLA
during coach John Wooden's glory days. North Carolina is the premier women's
program in the country, winning 18 of the past 24 national championships. Mia
Hamm is a former North Carolina player. The Tar Heels' coach, Anson Dorrance,
was the former coach of the U.S. women's World Cup team.

"North Carolina is a storied program," said Pine-Richland coach Jodi
Chmielewski. "It's unbelievable for somebody from our area to go and play
there."

North Carolina became interested in Klingenberg last summer after seeing her
play for the U.S. under 17 national team in Texas. The Tar Heels started to
recruit Klingenberg after she played for the U.S. team in a tournament in Brazil
in December.

Klingenberg, a 5-foot-2 midfielder, turned down full scholarship offers from
other Division I colleges to accept a half-scholarship to North Carolina.

"I've wanted to go to North Carolina ever since I've been 8 or 9 years old,"
Klingenberg said. "Just because of its reputation, and you always hear about
them being so good."

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mike White can be reached at mwhite@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1975.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              727 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 16, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Just What the Professor Ordered

BYLINE: By Ian Ayres.

Ian Ayres, a professor at Yale Law School, is a co-author of the textbook
''Studies in Contract Law.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 753 words

DATELINE: New Haven


IN time for the new school year, the Government Accountability Office has
released a sobering report on the soaring price of textbooks. Over the past two
decades, the report tells us, ''college textbook prices have risen at double the
rate of inflation.''

We're used to paying $25 for a hardcover novel, but my casebook on contracts now
sells to students for $103, and the best-selling general chemistry textbook
(co-authored by my father-in-law) costs $148. At state universities, textbooks
and supplies account for 26 percent of all student fees, including tuition. At
junior colleges, they are a whopping 72 percent.

The G.A.O. report falls short, however, by attributing this run-up in prices to
the development of ''CD-ROM's and other instructional supplements.'' The real
problem is the lack of price competition. A series of mergers has ensured that
although there are hundreds of textbooks to choose from, the five largest
publishers control 80 percent of the market.

It's easy for prices to drift upward when the person choosing the product
doesn't really care how much it costs. Instead of competing on price, publishers
compete for professors' attention with an excess of computerized bells and
whistles.

Indeed, the pricing problems with textbooks are eerily analogous to those
affecting prescription drugs. In both cases you have doctors (Ph.D.'s or M.D.'s)
prescribing products. In neither case does the doctor pay for the product
prescribed -- in many cases, he or she doesn't even know what it costs. And the
clincher is that in both cases, the manufacturers sell the same product at
substantially reduced prices abroad.

The analogy to prescription drugs suggests a possible solution. Perhaps
universities can take a lesson from managed health care. Health maintenance
organizations are often criticized for being too stingy, but let's not forget
that they've played an important role in containing health care costs.

So just imagine what would happen if universities started to provide textbooks
to their students as part of the tuition package. Of course tuition would have
to rise, but for the first time universities would start caring about whether
their professors were too extravagant in the selection of class materials.

This ''textbook maintenance organization'' wouldn't require a huge centralized
bureaucracy. Universities would probably give professors a textbook budget per
student. Those who exceeded the budget would have to seek their deans' approval.
Some enlightened colleges might even give a share of the savings to professors
who don't use up all of their budgets.

Even publishers might not do so badly under this new system. Under the current
arrangement, many students protest exorbitant prices by simply refusing to buy
textbooks. They make do with slightly older editions, read library copies or
share with other students.

Not only do publishers lose these sales, but teachers are irritated because
students cannot read along in class or look up information that is relevant to
the discussion. Under textbook maintenance organizations, we'd return to the old
days where everyone was on the same page.

Still think a system where schools provide free textbooks would never work?
Well, we already have one at the elementary and secondary levels. Unlike
Hogwarts, which requires Harry Potter to buy books each year, most American
public schools own their assigned books and buy new editions only when it's
absolutely necessary.

Such a system at the university level would also do away with some conflicts of
interest. Because at the moment, professors' incentives in choosing textbooks
are in some ways more distorted than doctors' incentives in choosing drugs. You
see, I earn a $10.30 royalty on every copy of my textbook that a student buys.
Instead of just trying to get the best book for my class (and to do so I should
weigh both quality and price), I might also consider assigning my own book and
increasing my profit.

This is a self-dealing transaction, which would be presumptively illegal if
professors owed a fiduciary duty to students. Some professors realize this and
donate to charity the royalties they earn when they assign students their own
books.

So this year, I am going to do something different. I will give $11 to each of
my contracts students who buys my book. That way, we will all know that I
assigned the book for the right reason. The textbook isn't included with my
students' tuition, but at least in my contracts class the royalty will be.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              728 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday

Only four babies born at Rossendale birthing centre

SECTION: ROSSENDALE NEWS (ROSSENDALENEWS)

LENGTH: 355 words


JUST four babies have been born at Rossendale Birth Centre since it opened in
December because women are choosing to give bith in hospital.

The unit, based at Rossendale Primary Health Care Centre, in Bacup Road,
Rawtenstall, opened last year to provide a home birthing type service for
mums-to-be.

The first baby was born at the centre in January, but since then only three more
mums have given birth at the facility.

In contrast a total of 452 babies have been born at Blackburn Birth Centre,
which opened in September, and 335 at Burnley Birth Centre, based within the
Lancashire Women and Newborn Centre at Burnley General Hospital, which opened in
November.

Rossendale Councillor Gladys Sandiford, a former midwife, midwife teacher and
ex-north west representative for the Royal College of Midwives, said the centre
might be underused because women were choosing Burnley's birth centre, due to
its location within a hospital, instead.

She said: "It's very disappointing that we're not having Rossendale babies born
in Rossendale and you just have to question the cost effectiveness of this
centre.

"The big difference with the Burnley centre is it's not a stand-alone centre. If
anything going wrong at Rossendale you've got to get the lady transferred with a
great deal of speed to Burnley."

East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust said another seven women had booked to have
their babies in Rawtenstall in the coming months.

And hospital bosses said they expected the centre to become more popular over
time, with birth rates closer to their 2009 estimate of 300 a year.

This is partly due to changes to Pennine Acute Hospitals NHS Trust's maternity
services.

Rochdale Infirmary's maternity unit will close this summer, meaning that Bacup
and Whitworth mums may choose Rossendale rather than visit a new £44m women and
children's super centre in Oldham.

Ruth Gildert, East Lancashire Hospitals' divisional general manager for family
care, said: "The Rossendale Birth Centre is slightly different from the birth
centres in Blackburn and at Burnley as it serves a smaller population so it has
only two birth rooms, and is not constantly manned."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              729 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Floyd County Times, Prestonburg, Ky.

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              May 19, 2015 Tuesday

University of Pikeville honors Class of 2015

BYLINE: The Floyd County Times, Prestonburg, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 648 words


May 19--PIKEVILLE -- The University of Pikeville honored the academic
achievements of 288 graduates at the associate, baccalaureate and master's
degree levels, including 70 Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree recipients
from the Kentucky College of Osteopathic Medicine (KYCOM) during commencement
exercises on Saturday.

Social work and nursing pinning ceremonies were among the graduation week
highlights for the Class of 2015.

Kentucky College of Osteopathic Medicine: Congressman Harold "Hal" Rogers
delivered KYCOM's keynote address.

"I'm proud of all the students today, and I'm especially grateful to the 44
graduates who are from Kentucky for choosing to stay in the commonwealth to
follow your dreams," said Rogers in his message to graduates. "We're working
diligently to end the out-migration of talented students like you -- we want you
to have successful careers and raise your families right here in one of the most
beautiful parts of the country."

Beyond the day of celebration, Rogers challenged the class to remember why they
began the journey and the realities confronting the rural communities they call
home.

"In choosing this profession, in accepting this vocation, you have all been
summoned to a higher calling of service to others. And we are ready and waiting
for you to answer that call right here in Eastern Kentucky," said Rogers. "We
need you, your gifts, your talents and your selfless commitment to others in
order to help us tackle some of the most magnificent health challenges
confronting the entire nation. I am proud to have been a part of this school
from the beginning and I look forward to celebrating all of your professional
accomplishments. Congratulations to the Class of 2015 -- Godspeed!"

Rogers was presented with an honorary Doctor of Public Service degree. Walter E.
May, president/CEO of Pikeville Medical Center, also received an honorary Doctor
of Laws degree during the medical school's commencement ceremony.

"It's humbling to receive such an award from an institution I respect as much as
I do the University of Pikeville," said May. "This is not an award for me
personally as much as for the people who have influenced my life."

College of Arts and Sciences, Coleman College of Business and Elizabeth Akers
Elliott School of Nursing: Delivering a heartwarming rendition of the alma
mater, "The Orange and Black," the voices of the university's concert choir
heralded the end of a successful journey and a new beginning for graduates of
the College of Arts and Sciences, Coleman College of Business and the Elizabeth
Akers Elliott School of Nursing. Valedictorians for the Class of 2015 were Elisa
Suya Almeida Lopes of Rio De Janeiro, Brazil, and Sven Alexander Rodenbusch of
Simmern, Germany. Adam G. Isaac, of Belcher, earned the distinction of class
salutatorian.

Commencement week activities for the College of Arts and Sciences also included
the inaugural pinning ceremony for 13 new professional social workers. The
Elliott School of Nursing honored 21 new nurses during a traditional pinning
ceremony.

Also honored were David Snow, D.Mgt., assistant professor of business, and
Mathys Meyer, Ph.D., assistant professor of biology, who were first- and
second-place recipients respectively of the William Wade and Helen Record Walker
Teaching Excellence Award.

Commencement keynote speaker Wilbert W. James, Jr., president of Toyota Motor
Manufacturing, Kentucky, Inc., received an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters
degree during the commencement ceremony. James left the Class of 2015 with a few
heartfelt life lessons.

"Always do what you commit to do, but strive to over-deliver," James said.
"Respect the knowledge of others, but always go and see for yourself."

___ (c)2015 The Floyd County Times (Prestonsburg, Ky.) Visit The Floyd County
Times (Prestonsburg, Ky.) at www.floydcountytimes.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150519-QO-University-of-Pikeville-honors-Class-of-2015-0519-20150519

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QO


            Copyright 2015 The Floyd County Times, Prestonburg, Ky.


                              730 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Thanet Extra

                                  July 5, 2017

University to move courses from campus

LENGTH: 521  words


University bosses say they will no longer recruit students for courses at a
coastal campus from 2018.

Canterbury Christ Church University made the announcement following speculation
on Monday this week that its Broadstairs campus is to close.

In the statement issued by the university's mediarelations team, the courses
will be moved back to Canterbury over the next few years.

The management has pledged there will be a smooth transition for current
students and staff and say courses currently running will remain open.

In the statement, the university said: "All courses will remain open and new
ones will be created as part of wider, longer-term plans to invest in a student
experience of the highest quality at our main campus in Canterbury."

The campus at Broadstairs was first opened in 2000, and includes 800 students
from the area studying at the university.

But the majority are choosing to study at the main campus in Canterbury, with
only 135 choosing to remain in the Thanet town.

University vice chancellor Professor Rama Thirunamachandran said: "This decision
has been taken after careful consideration and in the best interests of our
current and future students.

"I am personally aware of the importance of access to higher education in
Thanet, having been involved in the creation of the campus 17 years ago while at
the Higher Education Funding Council for England."

Prof Thirunamachandran said the university will keep its contacts and
partnerships with nearby schools and colleges in its outreach work.

Thanet District Council leader Chris Wells has hit out at the announcement.

In a statement released on Thursday, Cllr Wells expressed disappointment over
the move, saying that it hits those on lower incomes hardest.

He said: "It was with real sadness, and not a little disappointment that I heard
of the decision of the board of Canterbury Christchurch University regarding the
future of the Broadstairs Campus.

"This will not affect those who are from middle class backgrounds, whose
judgement on their university years is about their social as well as educational
experience.

"No, this decision will most strongly impact upon those whose decision to attend
university is a marginal one. Whose parents worry about their level of debt. Who
as single parents value the role of a local campus and library closer to home.
Those who studies remain squeezed between long hours in care homes and
supermarkets to make ends meet."

He is due to meet with the university's vice chancellor, Professor Rama
Thirunamachandran, at a later date to discuss the matter.

Cllr Wells added: "I do not doubt the university will do all in its power to
look after those students, but a consistent imbalance of investment between the
central Canterbury campus and the satellite here in Thanet tells its own story
about the competition between institutions to maintain their market place in a
middle class university town.

"It has simply increased the gap between the richer university towns income, and
that of the lesser towns and villages whose residents seeking to improve
themselves must do so at greater expense and further from their home."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              731 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                Burnley Express

                                  May 26, 2006

School Uniform 'Snub'

SOURCE: Burnley Express

LENGTH: 563 words


PENDLE'S new "super schools" have denied taking business away from the area
after handing uniform contracts to non-Pendle firms.




In September, Marsden Heights Community College, an amalgamation of Edge End and
Mansfield high schools, and Pendle Vale College, formerly Walton High School,
will open, with each school having brand new school uniforms. Both schools have
chosen contracts for schoolwear with clothing firms outside the Pendle area,
Marsden Heights choosing Burnley-based Moonline Fashions, and Pendle Vale
choosing Blackburn-based Whittakers.


Mr Mohammed Shafi, managing director of Nelson Clothing Co., in the Victory
Centre, has reacted angrily to the news and a letter has been sent to Marsden
Heights Community College headteacher Mr Mike Tull opposing the move.


Mr Shafi said: "I think it is wrong. The schools should be looking after the
Pendle public and the Pendle shopkeepers. If we cannot supply, then yes go
elsewhere, but they did not approach us. They should at least ask us to come
down to display things.


"I am a manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer, and would have let the schools
know this had I been given the chance."


Coun. Alan Davies, leader of Pendle Council, said: "We will have to do something
about it. It is a nonsense situation as it is taking trade away from Nelson
businesses and making Pendle people shop outside the area.


"We will have to make representations on the matter as the issue has certainly
not been communicated to the council."


Mr Mike Tull, headteacher elect for Marsden Heights Community College, denied
the school had intentionally taken trade away from Nelson, saying Pendle
businesses were given every opportunity to show their products to the school.


He said: "Businesses were invited by the school and given the opportunity to
exhibit their products for us. We had to find the best possible deal for our
parents to enable the decision to be at the best cost possible."


He said that the cost of new school uniforms would be a major issue for parents,
and the school would be making no money through uniform sales.


"As a community college we wanted to open it up to local business and people
were given the opportunity," he said. "The cost can be significant for parents
and my loyalty has to be with them."


Mr Geoff Walker, headteacher elect for Pendle Vale College, also said cost was
an issue and that the decision was made by a panel including parents.


He said: "In a sense, it was the governors who made the decision. A school
uniform committee decided that they wanted to go to a single supplier that would
manufacture, supply and source the new clothing.


"In the past, many people have been able to go to many shops but, in order to
keep costs down and to guarantee consistency, we chose Whittakers in Blackburn."


Whittakers will also be setting up a shop in Pendle Vale School over the summer
holidays so parents don't need to travel to Blackburn.


Mr Walker also confirmed that the issue of choosing a non-Pendle manufacturer
was brought up at a meeting of the governors.


"We do understand the issue and it was raised, but having said that from talking
to parents and children we found also had concerns that we did not want to use
multi-nationals, such as Asda and Tesco.


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc


                              732 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                              June 13, 2016 Monday

'Don't impose parents' choice on children'

LENGTH: 413  words

DATELINE: BALLARI


BALLARI, June 13 -- Experts in the field of education underlined the need for
students to do their homework properly before choosing a professional course of
their choice. They also appealed to parents to extend their full support to the
children instead of imposing their choice upon them.


 They were speaking at the fifth edition of The Hindu EducationPlus career
counselling and guidance session held at the auditorium of the Ballari Institute
of Technology and Management (BITM) here on Sunday.
 Students and parents were content with the informative presentation on the
avenues open in various courses and the explanation given on the process of
online counselling.
 Yeshwant Bhupal, chairman and managing trustee of BITM, in his inaugural
address, was all praise for The Hindu for what he termed as a great initiative
in organising the session all over the State. It would help make students and
parents, who are at a cross roads, more knowledgeable about making a choice from
among professional courses.
 "After PU, students and parents are stuck with the question 'what next'?.
Choosing the right course is a challenge. Stress is being laid on providing well
absorbable education by introducing a new syllabus. Face the challenge with grit
and hard work and brighten your future," he said.
 Shoaib Valai, consultant trainer, CIGMA India, opened the world of
opportunities available to students. He also stressed the need for students to
assess their capabilities while exploring their preferred courses and have the
right aptitude before taking a firm decision.
 Prithviraj, director, BITM, dwelt at length about the National
Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and the process of online application.
Madhusudhan Kariganur, general surgeon, and V.C. Patil, principal, BITM,
explained about the opportunities in medical and engineering streams.
 Shekar Gouda, Nodal Officer, Karnataka Examinations Authority, explained about
the online process of choosing courses and clarified doubts.
 S.J. Venkat Mahipal, chairman, Basavarajeshwari Public School and College, was
present.
 Over 400 students and parents, who attended the session, were given 'the
Nxt.step', a handbook brought out by The Hindu EducationPlus, containing
well-researched articles about various courses.
 Sponsors
 The gold sponsors for the event are AMC City Institute, Nitte Meenakshi
Institute of Technology, Presidency University and the silver sponsor is HKBK
College of Engineering. BITM was the venue sponsor.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              733 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             March 8, 2016 Tuesday

Broad-entry courses will not suit all students;
The notion that most third-level students would benefit from not having to
specialise until second or third year seems sensible   until you examine it
closely

BYLINE: Greg Foley

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 749 words


There is a certain air of plausibility around the idea that school leavers
should continue on to third-level education via a broad entry route. It makes
intuitive sense that young people's education should start out broad and get
narrower as they get older and more mature.

Hence, advice like that given recently in The Irish Times, namely that "choosing
a broad course, such as arts, law, commerce or science, is a good place to
start", seems sensible.

But is this good advice for everyone?

The rationale for the broad-entry approach seems to be threefold. First, it will
take the heat out of the CAO points race and, perhaps, make students learn more
effectively at second level.

Second, it will make students less likely to choose the wrong course and fail to
progress through the first year of college.

Third, it will allow students to make a more mature and informed choice about
their ultimate field of specialisation.

The evidence for the first point is weak. Many of the courses with the highest
points have the largest intakes.

A good example of this is the broad entry to science in UCD, which has an intake
of about 400 students and minimum entry points of more than 500.

Look right across the system. Even within a single discipline such as
engineering you will find there is no relationship between intake and minimum
entry points.

CAO points are strongly influenced by the perceived prestige of an institution
and, crucially, geographical factors. And the CAO system is not simply one of
supply and demand; it is much more nuanced than that.

Niche points

 It is worth pointing out that about 70 per cent of "niche" courses - those with
an intake of 10 or fewer students - have minimum entry points below 350. Fewer
than 5 per cent of niche courses have points above the elite 500-point mark.

Controlling the intake does not guarantee high points; low intake is usually a
consequence of low demand.

As for the idea that broad entry will make students less likely to drop out of
college: again, the evidence is simply not there.

Studies indicate that most students who drop out do so because they have "chosen
the wrong course".

Many observers seem to have concluded that choosing the wrong course is a
consequence of the complexity of the CAO system, especially the sheer number of
courses to choose from.

In fact, choosing the wrong course is more likely to be a direct result of
students having a low CAO points score and being allocated a course that is very
low down their list of preferences.

This means that they are probably not very interested in their "chosen" course
and are probably not able for the academic challenges involved.

Indeed, a recent Higher Education Authority report demonstrates unequivocally
that the best predictor of nonprogression is a lack of "prior educational
attainment". The lower your points, the more likely you are to drop out.

More informed?

 Still, won't broad entry allow students to make more informed choices about
their ultimate field of specialisation?

Maybe, but maybe not. The key word here is "choice", and some institutions might
not be in a position to guarantee students entry into their discipline of choice
at the end of first or second year.

The simple reason for this is that capacity, especially in the laboratory
sciences, is limited.

Therefore, with broad entry you risk exposing vulnerable first-year students to
a high-pressure, highly competitive environment at the very time they are
finding the transition from second to third level highly challenging.

When I attend careers events and talk to school leavers, I am often struck by
the fact that we have two populations of students.

There are those who are mature, who have done their research, and who know quite
well what they want to study at third level. The denominated entry system serves
their needs well.

Then there are those who have only the vaguest idea of what they want to study.
Broad entry might suit them better.

CAO tinkering

 We need a mixed system, and just because some institutions might favour one
approach does not mean that all institutions should follow suit.

We should not get ideological about this and we should not believe that
tinkering with the CAO system will solve the many challenges facing the
third-level system.

Dr Greg Foley is a lecturer at DCU's school of biotechnology. He is currently
serving a term as associate dean for teaching and learning in the university's
faculty of science and health. He is writing here in a personal capacity

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              734 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Charleston Daily Mail (West Virginia)

                           November 21, 2006, Tuesday

Slaton or White?, Next year's Heisman race may - or may not - answer that
question

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. P1B

LENGTH: 743 words


LIKE it or not, college football fans, Ohio State's Troy Smith already is
shopping for his suit and working on his speech for next month's Heisman Trophy
ceremony.

You can't argue with Smith's season-long brilliance for the top-ranked and
unbeaten Buckeyes, the Big Ten Conference champions who will play for the Bowl
Championship Series title in two months.

Smith completed 199 of 297 passes for 2,507 yards with 30 touchdowns and five
interceptions this season for the Buckeyes, who scored 36.3 points per game with
him at quarterback. The senior signal-caller also added 233 yards and one score
on 62 carries.

For better or worse, the Heisman Trophy has become one of those postseason
awards that goes to the best player from the best team, not necessarily the best
player overall.

That is Smith this year.

So, voting for the Heisman Trophy winner this year is easy.

That might not be the case next year.

Why? Because voters might face this dilemma: Choosing between West Virginia
superstars Patrick White and Steve Slaton, who will make the Mountaineers
national championship contenders for the second consecutive season.

It is a difficult decision, but either choice is acceptable.

Sort of like choosing between Porsche and Ferrari, filet mignon and prime rib or
Angelina Jolie and Scarlett Johansson.

In other words, it is impossible to go wrong.

But the question is intriguing. Who is better?

WVU Coach Rich Rodriguez won't say. If he had his way, they would share the
award.

"Cut that thing in half," said Rodriguez, after White and Slaton combined for
639 total yards in a 45-27 win over Pittsburgh.

The duo agreed with their coach.

"Split it," Slaton said.

Unfortunately for the Mountaineers' talented tandem, that isn't likely.

There never has been a tie in the 71-year history of the Heisman Trophy. The
closest competition was in 1985 when Auburn's Bo Jackson beat Iowa's Chuck Long
by 45 points.

An argument can be made for both players.

"We really don't mention it much because we try to be more team-oriented during
the season," Rodriguez said. "Then, after the season, the individual accolades
follow.

"But I certainly think both of those guys belong amongst talk about the best
players in the country just based on performance this year."

Slaton, a 5-foot-10, 190-pound sophomore running back, has accumulated 1,578
yards and 14 touchdowns on 204 carries.

He also has caught 20 passes for 295 yards and two TDs.

White, a 6-2, 190-pound sophomore quarterback, has completed 95 of 142 passes
for 1,346 yards with nine touchdowns and five interceptions. He also has rushed
128 times for 1,057 yards and 17 TDs.

As evidenced by their statistics, both players are dual threats with the
football. Slaton can carry it or catch it. White can run it or throw it.

Much of their success is due to their speed.

Slaton and White are among the fastest - if not the fastest - players at their
positions nationwide, which is why they can score at anytime from anywhere.

White and Slaton also share a competitive nature unrivaled by many of their
counterparts. Whether they are playing Xbox, Monopoly or Texas Hold 'Em, they
want to win at all costs.

Slaton and White also aren't typical superstars. Both work as hard and remain as
humble now as when they arrived in Morgantown. Their coaches and teammates alike
attest to that.

It is difficult to determine how much one means to the other.

Both open up opportunities for the other. Would Slaton gain as many yards and
score as many touchdowns if White weren't in the backfield with him or vice
versa? No one can say for sure.

The deciding factor, in my opinion, is toughness.

That is why my vote goes to White, who apparently cannot be shaken mentally or
physically.

No matter the injury, no matter the situation, he keeps playing and keeps trying
to lead his team into the end zone.

That never was more apparent than during a drive in WVU's 44-34 loss to
Louisville this month.

About nine minutes remained in the third quarter. Slaton was standing on the
sidelines, nursing a pair of injuries (wrist and elbow) after he coughed up two
game-turning fumbles.

White led the Mountaineers on a 92-yard scoring drive in which he threw for 13
yards and ran for 50, including five yards on a quarterback keeper for a
touchdown.

The Cardinals knew what and who was coming, but couldn't stop it or him because
of his dogged determination.

That sealed the deal and earned my vote.

Contact sportswriter Jacob Messer at jacobmesser@dailymail.com or 348-1712.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Charleston Newspapers


                              735 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Kokomo Tribune (Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 9, 2010 Tuesday

More students choosing local options in higher education

BYLINE: Danielle Rush, Kokomo Tribune, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 893 words


Feb. 9--Ron Wyatt was startled recently when one of his Eastern High School
seniors he assumed would have no problem being admitted to Purdue University was
instead put on a waiting list.

The Eastern High School guidance counselor said the student eventually was
admitted, but "just barely," and he is seeing more students concerned about
gaining admission to their first-choice colleges.

With state cuts to university funding, some colleges are capping or cutting
enrollment, while high school seniors are competing with more adults returning
to school to make themselves more marketable in a tougher economy.

For some students, this could mean attending a second-choice school or regional
campus.

Indiana University's Kokomo campus has plenty of room for this year's senior
class, according to Jack Tharp, vice chancellor for student services.

"We have no capacity problems," Tharp said. "Adult students are greatly reduced
in number from years ago, so they are not taking seats from new high school
graduates."

He said most of IU Kokomo's transfer students are in the 19- to 20-year-old
range.

Christy Bozic, director of the Purdue College of Technology at Kokomo, sees the
decreased availability at the school's West Lafayette campus as a growth
opportunity for the local campus.

"We've seen applications increase a little bit. This might prove a little
beneficial for us here in Kokomo."

She said while some programs are capping enrollment at West Lafayette, there is
capacity for the same programs in Kokomo, for those who are qualified for Purdue
enrollment.

"We're trying to open up our campus to those students who may not even be from
around here. We have capacity. We can take more students. Our professors and
programs report up through the same academic deans. We have the same standards
as West Lafayette and have room for those programs to grow."

Donna Schaffhausen, dean of academic skills advancement at Ivy Tech Kokomo
region, said the college is not turning anyone away at this point, but "what we
are finding with our unprecedented enrollment growth is students who have waited
until the last minute are less likely to get into the classes they preferred.
Sometimes they take fewer credits than they hoped to enroll in. We are usually
able to get them into some classes."

She said campus officials have added more classes and raised enrollment caps on
some classes.

Schaffhausen recommends students start the enrollment process early.

"The longer they wait, the harder it will be to get what they want," she said.

At Eastern, Wyatt said students seem to be more worried about getting into
Purdue, which has started alerting students online on certain dates if they have
been admitted, rather than doing the rolling admissions process. With rolling
admissions, counselors review each application and send an immediate response.

He said state schools are increasing the standards for admission at the main
campuses, making it harder even for top students to get in.

Wyatt said he's seeing more kids applying to more schools, to be sure they have
someplace to go, or decide on a regional campus where they are more likely to be
admitted.

"I always tell kids to apply three places, one you want and two others," he
said.

He is also noticing more students choosing IU Kokomo as a first choice, because
it offers IU-quality programs at an affordable price, and they don't have to pay
for housing.

Wyatt said he is seeing more students enroll at Ivy Tech, where he is an adjunct
faculty member teaching psychology, because of less expensive tuition.

At Northwestern High School, guidance director Carolyn Thompson is also noticing
more students starting their college careers locally, to save money.

She added that many plan to go local and then transfer, but "as they get to IU
Kokomo they find it to be a very viable campus. Where they may have planned to
stay only a year or two, some of our students stay. They have the activities
now, they have a mascot now. I think they're appealing more to the students now
directly out of high school. I do think kids who stay local are having a good
education and a positive college experience."

She also said more students have been concerned about being admitted to Purdue
because of the change in admission procedures. For the Class of 2010, it was the
first week in December before any applicants were notified if they had been
admitted.

Thompson said waiting to admit students gives college officials a chance to see
who is applying and be more selective in who attends.

She used to encourage students to apply to colleges by Thanksgiving, but now
tells them by Halloween, because admission has become more competitive.

For those who are not admitted to their top choice, she hopes they've already
had other ideas.

"We really try to encourage students to have several plans," she said.

--Danielle Rush is the Kokomo Tribune education reporter. She can be reached at
765-454-8585 or danielle.rush@kokomotribune.com

To see more of the Kokomo Tribune or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.kokomotribune.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, Kokomo Tribune, Ind.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100209-KO-More-students-choosing
-local-options-in-higher-education-0209

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KO


                         Copyright 2010 Kokomo Tribune


                              736 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       East & Bays Courier (New Zealand)

                           August 30, 2017 Wednesday

Be an 'active patient'

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 335 words


A campaign to reduce unnecessary health tests and procedures - particularly
among elderly and at-risk patients - is earning increasing support among medical
professionals.

The initiative, known as Choosing Wisely, aims to have better decision- making
among both patients and doctors, particularly about risky procedures.

"Right now, our potential to harm the healthy is starting to outweigh our
ability to help the people who are really ill," Derek Sherwood, an
ophthalmologist and chairman of the Council of Medical Colleges, says.

"We really want those evidence- based conversations to be better, so the right
decision happens for each patient."

The Australian and New Zealand College of Anaesthetists (ANZCA) has joined the
campaign, with a specific focus on the treatment of patients with "limited life
expectancy" - namely obese and elderly people.

The college has warned that many patients aged over 70 are at high risk for
problems after surgery, with 20 per cent experiencing complications within five
days.

Ten per cent of those needed to be admitted to critical care, and 5 per cent
died within 30 days.

Sherwood says it is encouraging to see more health agencies engage with, and
expand upon, the campaign, which began at the end of last year, in partnership
with the Health Quality & Safety Commission and Consumer New Zealand.

The campaign now has 22 organisations as partners, with the NZ Medical Students
Association (NZMSA) one of the latest to engage with it.

In addition to encouraging students to engage with the initiative, the
association has also created the WISE acronym to help patients understand the
Choosing Wisely concept.

THINK WISE: What the WISE acronym stands for:

* Why? What will this test, treatment or procedure change?

* Is there an alternative? Less invasive, less resource-intensive?

* Seek clarification. Clarify why the doctor ordered this test.

* Explore/explain. Be the patient's advocate. Explore concerns, take time to
explain why a test, treatment or procedure is/isn't necessary.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              737 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                            March 30, 2011 Wednesday
                                   E1 Edition

A way of testing career choice Spotlight on internships For the best value be
fussy when choosing a college;
Internship provides opportunity to find out about that job

SECTION: WORKPLACE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1283 words


THERE'S loads of information and advice available to jobseekers and employees on
what employers want from them.

But where do "interns" or "apprentices" fit in? Which advice should they follow?

According to Natalie Rabson of Boston City Campus and Business College, the
golden rules when you get the opportunity to do an internship at a company are:
go the extra mile to find out what employers expect, be ambitious, treat
everyone with respect, and take part in as many tasks as you are asked or
offered to do.

"I worry when I hear someone say 'Don't worry too much, it's only an
internship', she says. "Students should approach an internship - or any
on-the-job training opportunity - with some seriousness and lots of
appreciation."

Remember that employers specifically want from interns a willingness to learn, a
can-do attitude, enthusiasm, motivation, ability to communicate well and get on
well with diverse people, and a sense of gratitude. These traits are things that
cannot be taught, like skills and knowledge.

Employers are not obliged to give students internship opportunities. They do so
for two reasons: to contribute to the country's skills development efforts and
to identify new blood for their talent pool. Students are the ones who stand to
gain much more from an internship or on the job-training stint.

"Most students know the value of an internship," says Rabson. "In our
experience, the majority of students work hard to get a chance to apply their
knowledge and skills in a real work environment."

At the beginning of this year, Boston City Campus and Business College launched
a special internship programme called Experience it! to assist students in
gaining real time work skills and experience.

The process is simple: interested students apply for Experience it! internship
opportunities at the Boston branch they're studying at and the college then
attempts to place them at a company where they can work for a few weeks.

Rabson points out that an Experience it! internship is different from a regular
holiday job.

Experience it! ensures that students that go on internships get experience that
is directly related to the job they aspire to do in the future.

Boston has appointed permanent staff to run the Experience It! programme and
these members of staff are tasked with finding potential work experience
openings at a variety of companies, and they also assist with grooming students
for these positions.

"The principles are the same and many of the processes are the same, but yet
there are subtle differences between a normal job application and an internship
application," Rabson explains.

"And although both work for the same company, there is also a difference between
being an employee and an intern. It's important to know about these differences,
so that you can find a way to get in and fit in a real workplace comfortably."

Think like a fussy buyer when deciding on further education - and ensure you get
value for your money.

This according to Kerry Damons of Boston City Campus and Business College who
advises prospective students and their parents or sponsors to pay attention to
the finer details when choosing an educational institution.

"Not all colleges and institutions of further study are the same, even if they
offer similar courses," she points out. "To ensure that you get value you
desire, think like a fussy buyer about to make a big-item purchase."

She refers to the steps most of us take automatically when parting with a big
sum of money - we read the fine print, study the payment plan, ask questions and
carefully weigh the options against one another. Where applicable we ask about
guarantees in case something goes wrong, ask friends and family for their
opinions and then - more often than not - we sleep over it before finally
handing over our hard earned money.

"Value clearly entails more than the price in rands and cents and that is why
individuals make different choices, even if they have the same amount of money
at their disposal," she points out."

You wouldn't dream of buying an expensive smart phone without first looking at
the product specifications, would you? You'd probably also want to hold one in
your hand to make sure you like the feel of it and that it works for you."

Choosing a college requires a similar process of checking out, but remember to
include the following additional points:

l See if the college offers career consultations to ensure that you are on the
correct pathway.

l Check if the college is on the Department of Higher Education and Training
register of private higher education institutions by visiting
www.education.gov.za or phoning 012 312 5320.

The official logos of the Department of Higher Education and Training, SAQA, CHE
or Umalusi may, by law, not appear on college brochures so each student has to
check for him/herself that a college is accredited.

l Get a brochure or prospectus from the college and check if details correspond
with the details on the Department's register.

l Visit the premises of the college with a friend or family member, ask to see
where you will study, what academic and social facilities are on offer.

l Get references from someone you believe to have high career aspirations who
studied or is currently studying at the college where you intend enrolling.

l Read the requirements and procedures relating to admission, exams and academic
progress - keep these on hand as a reference during your studies.

l Read and understand facts regarding study fees and cancellation rules.

l Calculate how far you will have to travel to class every day, and if travel
costs or time are an issue, try to choose a college that is close to home.

l Negotiate the best interest rate if you are borrowing money to pay for your
studies. Student loans should have a low interest rate.

l Apply for as many bursaries, grants, sponsorships.

l Look for student testimonials from past successful graduates.

Don't just register at any college and hope for the best - you can end up
wasting your time and money studying for a qualification that is not recognised
or has little value in the job market.

Similarities between looking for a job and looking for an internship

Just like a normal job seeker, students looking for an internship need to:

l Compile a CV, provide proof of the training they have completed and supply
references.

l Apply for various internship opportunities.

l Prepare for and attend personal interviews.

l Speak, dress and behave professionally.

l Research the company they're applying for - find out about the company's
vision, goals, products, reputation in the marketplace and so on.

l Set career goals for the short- and long-term.

What an employee and an intern have in common

Interns are not employees, but yet are expected to:

l Act responsibly and respect those in authority.

l Be punctual.

l Build good relationships with co-workers, managers and customers.

l Ask for help where necessary, but be able to work independently.

l Carry out tasks to the best of your ability.

l Be committed to their jobs, albeit temporary.

l Be honest in all their dealings.

l Adhere to policies, rules and regulations.

l Adhere to dress code and any other unwritten rules there may be.

l Agree to leave if internship is not beneficial to both parties.

What makes an internship different?

l It's of a temporary nature.

l Interns have more freedom to experiment and to make mistakes.

l Interns can and should move between departments and test different job roles.

l Though interns must complete all tasks given, you can change direction if you
don't like or cannot do the job assigned.

l Interns are expected to ask questions and be willing to learn at every
opportunity.

l Companies are not obliged to pay interns (but many do so).

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                 Copyright 2011 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              738 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                            November 3, 2013 Sunday

College Bound: What is a major, and how to choose one

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10s

LENGTH: 509 words


A major is a specific subject area that students specialize in. Typically,
between one-third and one-half of the courses youâ??ll take in college will be
in your major or related to it.

At some colleges, you can even:

â?¢Major in two fields.

â?¢Have a major and a minor (a specialization that requires fewer courses than a
major).

â?¢Create your own major.

At most four-year colleges, and in the case of many majors, you wonâ??t have to
pick a major until the end of your sophomore year. This gives you plenty of time
to check out various subjects and see which ones interest you. Some majors â?"
like areas of engineering â?" are exceptions to this rule. You have to commit to
these fields of study early so you have time to take all the required courses.

If youâ??re earning a two-year degree, youâ??ll probably select a major at the
start because the program is much shorter.

Most students switch their major during college.

Take courses in areas that appeal to you, and then think about which subject
truly motivates you. Stephanie Balmer, dean of admissions at Dickinson College,
suggests you take â??classes in which youâ??re going to be confident, but at the
same time, take some risks.â? She notes that a class you never planned to take
could end up helping you choose your major.

If youâ??re not sure about your college major while youâ??re in high school,
donâ??t worry. Most students switch their major during college. Even students
who think they are sure about what they want to major in often change their
mind.

Shawna, a college sophomore, began college as a physics major but switched to
electrical engineering. During her first semester, she discovered that college
physics â??was all the things about my physics class in high school that I
didnâ??t like. And my engineering class was all the stuff I actually did like.â?

Some colleges offer advising programs â?" such as pre-med or pre-law â?" to
students who plan on attending medical school, law school or graduate school.
These programs are not the same as majors; you still need to pick a major.

College students who are planning to continue their education in professional or
graduate programs often choose a major related to their future field.

For example, undergraduates in pre-med programs often major in biology or
chemistry.

They donâ??t have to, though â?" as long as students fulfill the course
requirements of the graduate program they want to enter, they can major in any
subject they like.

If you specialize in something like nursing, accounting or engineering, youâ??re
learning a specific trade.

Many majors, however, prepare you to enter a range of careers once you graduate.
For many students, picking a college major is not the same as choosing a job. It
will be up to you to pick a career path you like. For example, a degree in
English literature might lead you to a job in publishing, teaching, advertising,
public relations or law, among other fields.

Remember, youâ??re not alone when choosing a major. Ask academic and peer
advisers for help.

SOURCE: bigfuture.collegeboard.or.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2013 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              739 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Bladen Journal, Elizabethtown, N.C.

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             May 21, 2015 Thursday

Three Knights sign to play college baseball

BYLINE: Curt Vincent, Bladen Journal, Elizabethtown, N.C.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 565 words


May 21--DUBLIN -- A trio of senior teammates sat together at a table covered
with a tablecloth in West Bladen blue and signed their letters of intent to play
college baseball in the fall.

Trevor Lesane, Colby McLean and Michael Pastore -- a major part of the Knights'
middle defense this past season -- were the focus of attention as they put pen
to paper and made their plans official for continuing their education and
baseball careers.

"We're really proud of and excited for these three young men," said West Bladen
baseball coach and athletics director Kim Cain. "They've all worked very hard
and made a lot of sacrifices to be able to take this next step."

Lesane, a four-year centerfielder with the Knights, will play his collegiate
baseball for Wake Tech Community College in Raleigh. The Eagles were nationally
ranked in the Top 10 among NJCAA Div. II teams and Wake Tech baseball coach
Chris Kiec was named the Region X Coach of the Year.

"Trevor is real athletic with good speed, a strong arm and can hit for power and
average," Cain said. "I think this will be a good fit for him."

Lesane said he also considered Florence (S.C.) Tech, Prince George in Maryland,
Methodist University and Chowan University in Murfreesboro.

"I liked the program at Wake Tech, the coaches and the campus," he said. "I'm
hoping I can play quickly."

Lesane plans to play summer ball before getting into fall and spring baseball at
Wake Tech.

McLean, a four-year member of the Knights baseball program as a catcher, will
take his baseball talents to Lenoir Community College in Kinston. The Lancers, a
NJCAA Div. II program, is coached by Stony Wine.

"Colby is a very good defensive catcher with an above-average arm," Cain said.
"I expect he'll be seeing some playing time very soon."

McLean said he looked into Southeastern Community College in Whiteville, Wake
Tech and Greensboro College before choosing Lenoir.

"I liked the campus and the program there," he said. "Plus, I have family in the
area, which makes it even better."

McLean plans to play travel ball this summer with the G-Hawks out of
Fayetteville before moving on to Lenoir.

Pastore, a three-year member of the Knights baseball program who anchored second
base for West Bladen this past season, selected Averett University in Danville,
Va., to continue his baseball career.

"Michael is a very good Div. III player," Cain said. "He has a good glove at
second and he can handle a bat well. Plus, he's very knowledgeable about the
game."

Pastore considered Corning (N.Y.) Community College and Greensboro College
before choosing Averett. The Cougars play out of the USA South Conference, where
they finished third this past season.

"It's a nice area and I liked the coaches," he said. "They have a good team and
a solid program."

Pastore plans to play summer ball with the G-Hawks travel team before heading to
college in the fall.

"I think something like this really shows how much our program is improving
here," said Cain. "All three of these young men have put in the hard work, which
should show the younger guys what it will take to get to the next level.

"All three colleges will be getting fine students and athletes," he added.

-- W. Curt Vincent can be reached by calling 910-862-4163.

___ (c)2015 the Bladen Journal (Elizabethtown, N.C.) Visit the Bladen Journal
(Elizabethtown, N.C.) at www.bladenjournal.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150521-1BL-Three-Knights-sign-to-play-college-baseball-0521-20150521

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1BL


               Copyright 2015 Bladen Journal, Elizabethtown, N.C.


                              740 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              June 14, 2010 Monday

STUDENTS ARE FORCED TO STUDY WHILE THEY WORK

BYLINE: TIM ROSS EDUCATION CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 477 words


GROWING numbers of students are choosing part-time courses so they can work
while they study amid signs that the traditional three-year degree is on the
wane.

Government funding cuts that have limited the number of degree places available
have fuelled demand for alternative courses.

Young people in their early twenties now make up a quarter of all new Open
University undergraduates on distance learning degrees.

For the first time Birkbeck College in London is offering three-year degrees
aimed at school-leavers who want to work during the day and study at night.

But both Birkbeck and the OU warn that a lack of government loans for part-time
undergraduates means thousands of potential students are being put off by the
cost. There are fears that unprecedented demand for university places this year
Ñ combined with cuts to the number of places funded by the state Ñ will see more
than 200,000 candidates turned away. More than £1.1 billion of government
funding reductions have been announced for universities, with the number of
extra places available this year slashed by half to just 10,000.

Martin Bean, OU vice-chancellor, said growing numbers of students were choosing
to work and study part-time.

"We have seen an increase in demand for our flexible provision as a result of
constrained funding for places," he said.

"This is a natural evolution. The student demand moved on some time ago to
demand part-time study because of the lives that we now lead. I just don't think
that the system has kept up."

Professor David Latchman, master of Birkbeck, part of the University of London,
said the college was offering undergraduate degrees through the national
admissions service UCAS for the first time this year.

Three-year "accelerated" evening degrees in law, philosophy and psychology are
already receiving hundreds of applications, he said.

If the programme is a success, all undergraduate courses will be available over
three-years, he said.

Both universities called for part-time students to receive the same loans to
cover the cost of tuition fees as full-time undergraduates claim from the
government.

Professor Latchman added that many Birkbeck College students wanted to retrain
to find better jobs while many more were not able to afford courses because they
were not entitled to the loans.

"We are wasting talent now because people can't afford it and say 'I'm just
going to have to carry on in my dead- end job'," he said.

PRIMARY school pupils should be given lessons in Latin, a think-tank said today.
The ancient language should be granted the same status as modern languages such
as French, German and Spanish, according to a pamphlet produced by Politeia.
From September next year all primary schools will be required to teach pupils a
modern foreign language from the age of seven. The Department of Education said
Latin is "important and valuable".

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright  2010   Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              741 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         Somerset Standard and Guardian

                             June 11, 2015 Thursday

Every dog has its day at carnival fete fun for whole family

SECTION: ENTS:CHILDREN/FAMILY; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 150  words


Families flocked to Victoria Park for the Frome Carnival fete on Saturday.

The annual event raised a record £1,000.

Visitors got to enjoy a disco, live music performances, Morris dancing, a
trampoline, swing boats and stalls.

The dog show, organised by Kelly Pleasants, attracted more than ten entries in
most classes. It raised £228 for the carnival.

Best in show pedigree was won by  Jo Beckett with her dog  Beckshound Under My
Spell. First in best in show novelty was  Maggie Foster and her dog Gwyn.

Carnival fun continues this weekend with the choosing of the adult carnival
queen and Miss Teenager on Friday night, at Frome Football Club. Doors open at
7pm. On Saturday the children's carnival queen and granny choosing  is at G
Block of Frome Community College at 1.15pm.

Entry forms are available from Hunting Raven Books, Ellenbray Press and the
newsagents in Christchurch Street West and Badcox.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Maggie Foster and her dog Gwyn won best in show novelty section. They
are pictured with judge Vicky
Bathampton Morris Men, from left, Kevin Eames, John Salmon and Richard Stevens
From left, Lilly Amor, Torrin Amor and Poppy Wood, aged five, eight and five
Rhian Watkins, 11, with her dog Diva, that won Prettiest Bitch
Grace Woodham, 10, with her dog Barny, that won Best Veteran
Kiera Ladd with Frankie and Logan, aged three and one
Jackie Wood with Dora the snake
Owner Jo Beckett with her dog Beckshound Under My Spell which was declared best
in show pedigree

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              742 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The West Australian (Perth)

                          February 10, 2016 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Home away from home

SECTION: SP1; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 433  words


A  sense of community and affinity are as important as the quality of facilities
when choosing a boarding school, according to those working in the field.

Methodist Ladies' College director of boarding Elaine Riley said choosing a
boarding school was a personal journey for families.

"There is certainly an expectation from boarders and their parents that the
facilities should be first class," Mrs Riley said.

Recently refurbished MLC boarding facilities include bespoke bedrooms, custom-
built TV rooms, craft rooms and family rooms with commercial-grade kitchens.

The college attracts boarders from isolated areas, international students and an
increasing number of local weekday boarders.

"We have girls from China, Hong Kong, Malaysia and the Middle East. Our
heartland is still the Wheatbelt and we have a longstanding relationship with
families from these areas," she said.

Guildford Grammar School head of boarding Brad Evans agreed the culture,
environment, staffing model and sense of community were primary concerns.

When asked why they chose Guildford Grammar, most parents told him it just felt
right.

Mr Evans, a former boarder from a small country town, said boarding schools gave
children from rural and remote areas access to a level of education and
facilities unlikely to be available in their home town.

"Boarders develop independence, resilience and the ability to live in a
community close to a lot of people," he said.

These qualities helped boarders grow into capable adults and good workers, able
to get along with a diverse range of people.

Historically, Guildford Grammar was popular with Wheatbelt families but boarders
now included students from WA mining communities, plus some international
students.

Regional residential colleges offer country kids a clean, safe and welcoming
option closer to home than boarding in Perth, according to Northam Residential
College manager Steven Lally.

From a regional base, children could go home on weekends, maintain contact with
family and friends, and continue to play in country sport teams, he said.

Student rooms have moved from the long "army- barrack" accommodation to a
combination of modern private rooms and small shared rooms, with modern and
private shared shower areas and recreation lounges kitted out with TVs, games
tables, beanbags and kitchenettes, Mr Lally said.

Boarders had the chance to develop independent-living and problem-solving
skills, resilience, co-operation and character, and to participate in
recreation, community activities and sport.

They could also access services, hobbies and interests not available from home.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 West Australian NewsPapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              743 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             October 4, 2013 Friday

Field Hockey Named Top Program in APCA 2012 Field Hockey Rankings

LENGTH: 415  words

DATELINE: Boston


Merrimack College has issued the following news release:

The Merrimack College field hockey team reeled in a historic team honor on
Thursday after ranking first in the Association for the Protection of Collegiate
Athletes' (APCA) 2012 School Ranking Report for Field Hockey, as announced
today.

Merrimack scored at the top of the 27-team Division II field with a score of
0.3665. Three Northeast-10 Conference schools occupied the top-five of the
rankings, with Stonehill and Assumption slotted in second and third place,
respectively.

"We're thrilled to be receiving this honor for the first time," head coach Anne
Rounce noted. "It obviously is an enormous honor and we'd like to thank the
committee for electing us as the top-rankd team in these rankings.

"Our program has worked very hard for the past six years, and to be where we are
now from where we've come during that overhaul, it speaks volume to our
student-athletes, our administration and the College. We're excited to continue
to grow, and I believe we have a great foundation to build off of for further
success. We pride ourselves in recruiting good student-athletes and citizens, on
and off the field."

The goal of APCA Rankings Reports are:

To provide current and prospective student athletes interested in playing field
hockey at the collegiate level with the athletic and academic information that
student athletes believe should be considered when choosing a school
    To encourage schools to adopt and emphasize policies that benefit and
protect their student-athletes both on the field and in the classroom.

The APCA Ranking Report provides the most comprehensive, commercially
independent comparison of collegiate athletic programs. It emphasizes factors
that collegiate student athletes have identified as the most important: a strong
academic program, a successful team record, diverse academic opportunities,
university commitment to the athletic program, the ability to play in front of a
crowd and during the postseason, and a sufficient athletic scholarship (when a
scholarship is applicable).

The formula rewards programs that do not discriminate against student athletes.
A program will receive a higher score if it allows student-athletes to take any
academic major of their choosing, operates in accordance with NCAA policy, and
does not impose additional restrictions on student-athletes who may want to
transfer to another college or university.

For more information please visit: http://www.merrimack.edu.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              744 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Northern Daily Leader

                           September 13, 2013 Friday

CHOOSING a university is one of the first major decisions

SECTION: FEATURE NO 1; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 228 words


CHOOSING a university is one of the first major decisions many young people have
to make.

It's also a confronting time for parents with all the normal concerns for their
children.

Where will they live? Who will look out for them? Will they be happy?

St Albert's College offers more than just board and lodging. Living and learning
at St Alberts provides plenty of opportunities to participate in college life
and to form lifelong friendships.

The Christian college spirit is based on teamwork and a supporting atmosphere so
it can nurture the academic, spiritual, physical, cultural and social
development of the individual.

The college welcome all faiths although no religious affiliation is required to
join. St Albert's College prides itself on its residents traditionally
maintaining a high level of academic excellence with support from a dedicated
team of seven academic advisors.

The college is also well known for its strong sporting teams particularly in
rugby, netball and hockey while also fielding competitive teams in waterpolo,
basketball, soccer, touch and league.

To discover the Albies' advantage parents and prospective students are welcome
to tour the college and discuss enrolment with the master or dean at any time.

Online residential applications are open now, visit
www.une.edu.au/campus/st-alberts or contact the St Albert's College office on
6773 6004.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              745 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

                             June 4, 2016 Saturday

Job satisfaction most important

SECTION: CLASSIFIEDS; Pg. C12

LENGTH: 586 words


DR. WALLACE: I will be a freshman at Northern Illinois University in September.
My problem is that I'm not sure what kind of work I want to do after I earn my
degree. Is this unusual? I would hate to wind up with a degree in education and
then decide I don't want to be a teacher.

Will you please give me a bit of advice regarding choosing a major? And can you
tell me how your college degree helped you to reach your goals? - Unsure,
Sycamore, Ill.

UNSURE: Your situation is not the least bit unusual. An important facet of your
college education is sheer discovery of who you are and what you want to do in
life. By no means is it necessary, or even desirable, that you enter college
certain of your career path. Most schools don't even require you to declare a
major until you've finished your second year.

In a survey of over 3,000 12th graders by Careers and College magazine, 80 per
cent said they did not have clear career goals. Most said their prime interest
was to find meaningful work. Some 65 per cent said job satisfaction was the most
important factor influencing career choice; another 10 per cent cited making a
contribution to society. The remaining 25 per cent said their chief motivation
was salary.

What were the most popular career goals among high school students? The field of
science and health was tops, at 38 per cent, followed by communications (14 per
cent), finance (7 per cent), government (5 per cent), and professional athletics
(4 per cent).

All that's necessary right now, Unsure, is that you begin thinking about
possible career interests. An open mind and willingness to explore will serve
you far better in college than rigid certainty. Self-discovery is the key. When
you know yourself, you're far less likely to embark on a career you lack the
heart to pursue.

You are a wise young lady for choosing to further your education at NIU. It's a
very special university offering a myriad of programs to help all students reach
their goals. I was fortunate to have chosen NIU as a graduate student when
teaching and coaching basketball became my passion. My undergraduate liberal
arts degree at Knox College, with a major in sociology, provided a solid
foundation for writing a syndicated column for teens although I had no plans at
the time to become a writer.

When I entered Knox College, I had no thoughts of what form of employment would
provide enjoyment, self-satisfaction and the desire to help others to become
good citizens. Knox and NIU both provided the formal background. It was then up
to me to use what innate skills I possessed to reach my goal.

So, Unsure, it will take time, but eventually experience will stimulate your
interests in the direction of an exciting, enjoyable, and full-filling vocation.
Trust me!

GOOD DENTAL ADVICE

DR. WALLACE: I'm a faithful reader of your column and would enjoy sharing some
good advice I received from my dentist.

On my recent dental check-up a cavity was discovered, and so I had it taken care
of immediately and felt relieved! My dentist told me to drink liquids from a
straw rather than from a glass or can. That way the liquid has less chance of
coming into contact with the teeth and this helps prevent cavities! - La Fawn,
Gary, Ind.

LA FAWN: Thanks for sharing your health tip with our teen readers. Even moms,
dads, and grandparents can benefit from this advice.

Dr. Robert Wallace rwallace@thegreatestgift.com Dr. Wallace welcomes questions
from his readers. Email him at the address above. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Times &;
Transcript (Moncton)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The Times & Transcript.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              746 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                            April 24, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Celebrating STEM in style;
Education & Training ; Sponsor's message

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 522 words


STUDENTS at Stockton Sixth Form College celebrated National Science and
Engineering Week with a visit from one of the region's highest profile sector
figures. As part of an interactive week which saw students in all science
subjects take part in exciting practical and laboratory work, Jane Atkinson,
senior vice president of the Wilton-based Sembcorp Utilities visited students to
give a talk on her day-to-day role and careers available in the engineering
sector.

Jane is the UK's lead ambassador for women in engineering, Brought up in
Middlesbrough, she studied maths, physics and chemistry at A-level before taking
a chemical engineering degree at Loughborough University. Her talk was part of
the college's focus on inviting inspirational, local figures to speak to
students about where achieving their full potential at college can take them,
and was arranged in conjunction with national charity Speakers for Schools.

Named Britain's top female engineer in 2007, Jane was the first woman in the
world to manage the casthouse of a blast furnace, overseeing 9,200 tonnes at
liquid iron at almost 1,700 degrees. Jane said: "Engineering has offered me some
fascinating experiences and if you want to travel the world like I did when I
was younger, it gives you those opportunities.

"A lot of young people don't realise the varied careers that different types of
engineering can lead to and also the fact that all engineering disciplines are
in the top ten of graduate starting salaries. If you come into engineering with
a degree, the world is your oyster."

Students heard about Jane's time working in American engineering and the scale
of opportunities available to them upon completing their A-level courses.

Rachel Angus, acting principal of Stockton Sixth Form College, said: "Last year
Stockton Sixth Form College saw almost a quarter of second year students go on
to study engineering and its related subjects at university. It's an extremely
popular subject and it was fantastic to be able to offer our potential STEM
students the chance to hear first-hand about Jane's journey to being one of the
most recognised engineering figures in the region." The college's guest speaker
initiative also saw Middlesbrough-born BBC Breakfast business correspondent
Steph McGovern discuss the UK economy and life working as a business broadcast
journalist with college business, economics and media students in February.

April's talk will be led by Stockton Sixth Form College alumni Dave Robson, race
engineer to McLaren F1 racing driver Jenson Button, who will be on-hand to speak
to students about what it's like working for one of the most exciting sports in
the world. Stockton Sixth Form College has seen a dramatic increase in the
number of students choosing to study science, technological and maths subjects
in the past three years and recently invested over £2m in new facilities for
students choosing STEM options.

? For more information on the college's course offerings, and for advice on the
best A-level programme of study for access into engineering, please visit
www.stocktonsfc.ac.uk or contact the college on 01642 612611.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AMBASSADOR: Students Jodie Harkin, Mario Saad and Matthew Cass meet
Sembcorp senior vice president Jane Atkinson
STUDYING STEM: Numbers of students applying to study STEM subjects at Stockton
Sixth Form have increased significantly since the college's recent investment in
new facilities.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EGM


                    Copyright 2013 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              747 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                            July 15, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

How to choose a higher education course;
By Ruth Thomas, Independent Careers and Higher Education Advisor

BYLINE: Ruth Thomas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 696 words


If you've got to the stage of choosing a higher education course, you will
probably already have thought about the pros and cons of taking higher education
qualifications. For example, you may have thought about what it will cost, but
in the long run it will be worth it as you will have better job prospects and
the potential to earn more money. There are two key decisions you will have to
make when choosing your higher education options: o What do you want to study? o
Where do you want to study?

You can apply for up to five courses through the UCAS application service and
with over 37,000 courses and 370 institutions to choose from, it's good to ask
yourself some questions such as: o What is my main motivation? o What do I want
to achieve? o What is realistic? o What are my personal circumstances? Choosing
what to study You may want to consider some of these things to help you decide:
o Do I have any career aspirations? If the answer is yes and you want to study
something that will lead to a specific career such as law, human resources,
medicine, architecture or teaching, you may want to narrow your search to
courses that are approved by professional organisations. For example, to become
a psychologist you will need to study a course that is recognised by the British
Psychological Society. o Is there a subject I love? You may want to choose
something you enjoy and want to gain an in-depth knowledge of. This could be
something you are already studying, such as English, or something linked to it
such as creative writing. o What type of HE qualification shall I do? Some
courses are more closely related to practical application in the workplace, such
as two-year foundation degrees, sponsored degrees, HNDs and three or four-year
honours degrees which include work experience. Others are more academic and
research based. The course you choose will also depend on entry requirements and
what is realistic for you. o What course will get me a job? Your motivation
might be to do a course that is most likely to lead to a job, so you might want
to find out what industries are forecast to grow. The UK Commission for
Employment and Skills predicts a growth in several areas including engineering,
business and finance, education, healthcare, agriculture, construction,
information technology and transport and logistics. Tip: If you aren't sure what
career you are aiming for but you've got your heart set on gaining a degree
level qualification, choose a subject you are likely to enjoy the most and be
successful in. On graduation there are many jobs you will be able to apply for
that don't require a particular degree subject. Choosing where to study To a
large extent, what you choose to study will help determine where you go. This is
because institutions offer their own range of courses and not all will do the
courses you are interested in. It also depends on your own set of priorities and
if the institution offers what you are looking for such as: o Location - you may
want to stay near to where you live due to personal circumstances or you may
want to be in a city or near the coast. o Facilities - are you looking for great
sports facilities or student accommodation? o Reputation - do you want to go to
a prestigious university that is well known for academic achievement and
research such as those belonging to the 'Russell Group'? o Workexperience - do
you want to go somewhere that has strong links with employers and good
opportunities for work experience such as some of the newer universities? What
can you do to narrow down your choices? o Do an online questionnaire to help
choose a course: www.ukcoursefinder.com o Do a course search online using
www.ucas.com or www.which.co.uk/university o Compare courses using Unistats:
www.unistats.com o Look at the course information on university and college
websites. o Choose some open days to go to and when you are there, listen to
subject talks and look at the facilities. Whichever course you decide to choose,
the Advice and Guidance Team at Gloucestershire College is here to help. You can
book an appointment to talk about your options by calling Student Services on
0345 155 2020.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLE


                      Copyright 2015 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved


                              748 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 24, 2015 Tuesday

Ohio: Kent State President Warren Launches Season of Philanthropy on Giving
Tuesday

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Columbus: Kent State University has issued the following news release:



  Kent State has participated in Giving Tuesday the last two years, but this
year, donations will have more impact with Warren's matching gift. Kent State
alumni, friends, faculty and staff are encouraged to take a moment to
&ldquo;give thanks by giving back&rdquo; and support a university program of
their choosing. A matching gift will be made by the university president. Her
donation will go to the Distinctive Kent State Fund. This fund will support the
programs, people and opportunities that make the university unique. For example,
it will support students through initiatives that encourage academic success and
career exploration.





 &ldquo;I have witnessed an abundance of heartfelt generosity here at Kent
State,&rdquo; Warren said. &ldquo;It's in this spirit that I have chosen to make
a personal pledge this holiday season. I hope to inspire a tradition of giving
that will advance a distinctive Kent State for years to come.&rdquo;

 online gifts



 Donors may make gifts to Kent State by visiting www.kent.edu/givingtuesday,
clicking the &ldquo;GIVE" button and choosing a fund that matches their
interests. To help spread the word about Kent State's Giving Tuesday campaign,
donors are also asked to use the hashtag #IGiveBevGives to share on social media
why they chose to give and which area of Kent State they supported.



 In addition to Warren's matching gift, there are three special opportunities
for supporters of:

 Intercollegiate Athletics



 An anonymous pledge of $20,000 has been made to double the impact of any
donations to Intercollegiate Athletics on Giving Tuesday, with an extra $5,000
match by head men's basketball coach Rob Senderoff for any men's basketball
gifts.

 College of Architecture and Environmental Design



 A total of $13,500 in matching gifts has been pledged by College of
Architecture and Environmental Design faculty and staff to inspire alumni to
give back.

 Porthouse Theatre



 Gifts to Kent State's outdoor summer theatre will have double impact because of
a gift from the Hackett Family Foundation.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              749 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    Jacksonville Journal-Courier (Illinois)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           November 2, 2017 Thursday

Survey seeks sense of working, commuting

BYLINE: Nick Draper, Jacksonville Journal-Courier, Ill.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 438 words


Nov. 02--A new survey being done in a partnership between MacMurray College and
the Jacksonville Regional Economic Development Corp. is helping to determine why
people choose to work in Jacksonville, but not to live within the city.

Last year, the college had partnered with the city's Commission on Disabilities
and Human Relations to determine deficiencies the city might have when
addressing the disabled or minorities. Joe Squillace, director of the social
work program at MacMurray, explained that this new venture sprang from that
study after former Jacksonville Regional Economic Development Corp. Director
Paul Ellis reached out.

"What Ellis was seeing was local companies hiring for positions but folks
choosing to not live in the Jacksonville community but choosing to commute from
elsewhere," Squillace said. "So we played around with the idea of maybe we could
conduct a survey and compare the differences between people who work in
Jacksonville and commute to people who work in Jacksonville and live in
Jacksonville."

Squillace said that Ellis' recent departure from the Jacksonville Regional
Economic Development Corp. will not affect the progress of the project.

The student research group working to collect and analyze the survey results
will be looking at the factors that contribute to the decision to commute, be it
a preference for larger cities, a desire for more entertainment or business
locations, or whatever reason the commuter may have.

Over the course of the school year, the students have been collecting data with
the intention of presenting the findings toward the end of the year at the
college and to representatives from the Jacksonville Regional Economic
Development Corp.

Ultimately, it's up to the Jacksonville Regional Economic Development Corp. what
is done with the data, although the hope is it will eventually help businesses
with job postings.

"I think it will help businesses target advertising for open positions,"
Squillace said. "People may give information about what they perceive as
attractive in a city. They'll give their perception on what is attractive about
living in Jacksonville and that might help frame employee recruitment."

Nick Draper can be reached at 217-245-6121, ext. 1223, or on Twitter
@nick_draper.

RECOMMENDED FOR YOU

4:35 pm       |

Woman found dead by White Hall railroad tracks

4:45 am       |

Schools face shortchanging again by state

4:36 am       |

Dancers training dancers

___ (c)2017 the Jacksonville Journal-Courier (Jacksonville, Ill.) Visit the
Jacksonville Journal-Courier (Jacksonville, Ill.) at www.myjournalcourier.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20171102-JJ-Survey-seeks-sense-of-working-commuting-1102-20171102

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JJ


                  Copyright 2017 Jacksonville Journal-Courier


                              750 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                            July 28, 2010 Wednesday

Colleges calling

LENGTH: 500  words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, July 28 -- Admission open", "Come join us!" "Best college in town!" These
are just some of the headings on print ads covering a significant portion of
newspapers these days. After the SLC results were published, it seems that every
medium of communication has been flooded (just like the monsoon rain has flooded
Kathmandu's streets) with advertisements from numerous colleges to attract
students. Colleges of all sizes and qualities have made sure that they've made
their presence known to the new flock of potential students. A cousin of mine
who just completed her SLC was confused amidst all the chaos of where to study
and what course to follow amongst the clutter of various educational institutes.

As happens to everyone right after having crossed the so-called Iron Gate, I
knew that she needed help in sorting through the confusion. Like every other
concerned student, she was also trying to decide on choosing the right course
and college for a successful career. With an exhausted look on her face she
asked me, "Brother, I am not sure what to study and where as there are so many
choices available, please help me out." As always, I was determined to wipe the
confusion and chaos out of her face and see her smile. First, I told her to calm
down and take a deep breath. After she settled down, I told her that she was
already on the right track as being concerned about her career was the first
step in making a sound decision about her future. Then I told her to identify
her area of interests that she feels can excel in instead of worrying about
where to study. First and foremost, she needed to know what area she is good in,
which will automatically make other decisions easier. With her interest in
literature, I advised her to join the field of liberal arts or creative writing
as it would be the most suitable course for her to pursue her dreams

of becoming a popular writer.

One common belief is that students should choose their course based on the score
attained on the SLC. That is absolutely wrong. Someone scoring high marks might
opt for a course in the humanities or arts instead of science if they are more
interested in those fields. If some courses are not available in Nepal, opting
for studying abroad can also be explored. There might be some parents who force
their children to opt for certain courses despite their child's resistance. If
they truly love their children though, it would be a shame to do such a thing

As for choosing the right educational institution, don't just go for the size of
the print ad or the beauty of the building. Instead, explore your options and
find a place that cares about your future as much as you do. I hope many
confused students just like my cousin will be benefited by this and make the
right decision for a prosperous future. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from EKantipur.com. For any query with respect to this article or any
other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                 Copyright 2010 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              751 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 8, 2009 Wednesday

Schools face funding cuts crisis;
* Sixth-form surge was forecast six months ago, say Tories

BYLINE: James Kirkup and Graeme Paton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 655  words


MINISTERS are facing mounting questions about a financial crisis that is
threatening the education of tens of thousands of teenagers.

Schools and colleges said sixth-formers could be turned away from courses in the
autumn after Ed Balls, the Schools Secretary, forced a last-minute cut in
funding.

The Daily Telegraph established that the funding gap was nearly  pounds 200
million, more than three times the original estimate. It came about despite
rising demand for places at schools and colleges from teenagers, who found that
the recession reduced the number of jobs available.

At the same time, millions of pounds was spent on Gordon Brown's flagship
apprenticeship scheme.

Ministers said the funding gap arose because of a surprise jump in the number of
children being allocated places in schools and colleges for the next school
year. Yet the Tories said government documents showed that officials knew six
months ago that applications were surging well above the expected level.

Michael Gove, the Conservative education spokesman, said Mr Balls had "some
serious explaining to do'' over his account of how the crisis developed. Mr
Balls accused Mr Gove of talking "utter nonsense'' and misleading people.

Hundreds of schools and colleges were facing financial hardship after the
Learning and Skills tCouncil (LSC) told them last week that funds allocated
weeks previously were reduced, some by hundreds of thousands of pounds.

On March 2, the LSC told heads it was able to fund an extra 30,000 school and
college places because it had won "nearly  pounds 200 million of new money''.
But after that letter was sent, the Department for Children, Schools and
Families (DCSF) informed the LSC that the extra money would not be forthcoming.
As a result, the quango wrote back to heads last week telling them that their
allocations had been cut.

Details of the letter were released last Thursday, the day that attention was
focused on the G20 summit in London.

Jim Knight, the Schools Minister, said last week that the squeeze arose because
"we are now seeing an even greater surge in demand for places than we have
budgeted for.''

But documents seen by the Tories appeared to show that senior LSC officials knew
as long ago as last autumn that many more children than they had expected were
choosing to attend schools and colleges.

Minutes of a meeting of its National Council on Nov 5, which was attended by a
DCSF official, recorded a "strong growth in young people's participation, which
stood at several percentage points above the plan''.

"It was evident from the figures that young people were choosing the school and
college route, which could have an impact on apprenticeships,'' it added.

The document also recorded that the LSC was already overspending its budget.

Mr Balls conceded that some children would be denied places in September unless
ministers could find  pounds 200 million. He was under pressure to explain what
role his department played in the LSC's decision to award "final'' allocations
on March 2 before cutting those allocations on March 31.

Government sources suggested that ministers were not aware of the LSC's first
letter until the second note was sent but the LSC said Mr Balls's department was
kept aware of what the quango was doing throughout. The letters sent to head
teachers warning them of cuts included a note saying that the DCSF was "involved
throughout and approved the changes''.

A department spokesman claimed last night that the discussion in November
referred to children starting courses last September. He said they were "working
across government on the extra financial support we need to provide for the new
learners that are coming forward''.

Alan Gray is head teacher of Sandringham School, a top-performing comprehensive
in Hertfordshire, which stands to lose  pounds 83,000. "We were promised this
money, we've recruited the students and now it has just been stripped away,'' he
said.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              752 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           November 6, 2014 Thursday
                                Chennai Edition

IITians weigh chance and choice

BYLINE: Ramya.M@timesgroup.com

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 458 words


They expressed no regret at choosing engineering and later becoming academics
who taught budding engineers at one of the country's premier technical
institutions. But, professors at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras said
they couldn't shake off the feeling that many were perhaps destined to do
something else.

R Nagarajan, dean, international and alumni relations at the institute, said he
had had a good run at the institute as student, teacher and mentor, but writing
was his first love, and there had been a time when he wished that he would not
be able to qualify for admission to the IITs. "I used to call myself a reluctant
IITian," he said.

Parental and peer pressure convince students to choose a particular career,
professor Nagarajan said. "It's very important to give children tools and
weapons to resist these other kinds of influences."

Former IIT-M director M S Ananth agreed that too much attention was paid to the
opinions of elders in choosing a career. "Experience is valuable

but you have to take it with a pinch of salt," he said. He criticized the
education system in the country for compounding the problem. "We must adopt an
idea factory approach - look at ideas that can spill over from one area to
another," he said.

They were speaking at an event organized recently to launch 'My choice, my
future', a self-assessment form designed

by the department of management studies of IIT-Madras and BodhBridge, an
educational services company, to help students and professionals make informed
decisions while choosing a career.

On many occassions, parents also put restrictions on their children and insist
that youngsters spend every waking hour either in school or at tuition. "This is
very unhealthy and distresses me," professor Nagarajan said. He said that it was
at times like these that he felt that the Indian tradition of teaching children
to respect elders and believe they know best backfires.

"Our children don't really know what their skills are or where their interests
lie, so they are malleable and offer the path

of least resistance," he added.

L S Ganesh, professor of management studies at IIT-Madras, said many a time he
had come across a pre-final year student wondering why he was pursuing
engineering. "The self-assessment form will also help parents find out how much
they understand their children," professor Ganesh said.

K Balaraju, co-founder and CEO of BodhBridge, said that the idea of coming out
with such a test came to him when he tried to find out why students in
engineering colleges were not interested in taking up his technical e-learning
courses.

"When I visited engineering colleges, 99% of students there would tell me that
they were pursuing the course by chance, not by choice," Balaraju said.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              753 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                              April 6, 2012 Friday

Age is just a number

BYLINE: TAMAR CASPI SHNALL

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 725 words


Upon signing up for an online dating account such as JDate, you'll be asked to
choose an age range for your matches. Choosing your age range doesn't sound like
it should be a complicated matter but, alas, age isn't just a number. By
choosing an age range you're systematically eliminating thousands of prospects
based solely on their age.

Like is attracted to like, so someone just out of college is often drawn to
someone in the same phase of life - someone who is trying to figure out what
they want to do with their life, someone who probably doesn't have a corporate
job or own a house. While someone in their late 20s who is working really hard
to get to the top of their field is attracted to other people in that phase -
people who are setting up the stage for the rest of their lives. The same goes
for people in their early 30s who are beginning to think about starting a family
- they're looking for someone who's on the same page regarding getting married,
settling down and having children. That's why many people end up dating and
marrying people close to their own age.

Selecting a narrow age range on JDate or any other Internet dating service is
not in your favor. If you are a 28-year-old and are selecting a maximum age of
32, imagine how many 33-year-olds you're excluding. Now imagine how many
34-year-olds you're excluding. And it's only an age difference of a few years!
There's really no reason why a 28-year-old couldn't connect with a 34-year-old -
six years isn't that much of an age gap.

When you meet someone at a bar, you can only attempt to measure his or her age
based on looks and possibly career and maturity. But think about it: you were
attracted to that person and started getting to know him or her before asking
his or her age, right? So when it turns out that he or she is a few years
younger than your minimum or a little bit older than your maximum, are you going
to turn your back? Probably not. So attach that philosophy to your JDate account
and broaden your options.

Unfortunately when you do know someone's age straight out, you make assumptions
on their maturity level and life experience. These are things I thought about
when a friend's younger brother asked me out many years ago. I decided to give
him a chance and found out that he was a mature, respectful, funny and
successful man who preferred "older" women. Basically he had all the things I
was looking for, but my mind-set was stuck on his age and I couldn't get past
it. (And yes, I admit, the older woman/younger man thing threw me off as well.)

Then I reminisced about when I was in high school and dated college guys and I
thought I was so cool. Or when I was in college and dated young businessmen and
I thought there was something substantial there. Now I can't remember what it
was we had to talk about. We were in such different stages in our lives. It's
not impossible to have commonalities when there's an age gap, but it does make
seeing eye-to-eye on things more difficult. As we get older, age differences
seem to matter less.

My friend Kevin is a 32-year-old doctor who just got engaged to a 22-year-old
senior in college. All of our friends were hesitant when they began dating, but
his admitted immaturities combined with her self-described "old soul" make them
a perfect match. There are, of course, things she can't connect to, but he's
patient with her and makes sure she's not out of the loop. And she keeps him
young. When he wants to stay home night after night, she makes sure he gets out
and stays active.

Interestingly, as we get older our preferred age ranges tend to change. They
start out narrower and then become broader. When you're approaching your 30s you
tend to only add a few years on each end (for women it tends to be older men and
for men it tends to be younger women) because for some inexplicable reason age
matters. In your mid-30s, the age range widens a bit as other, more important
traits take precedence such as independence, success and wanting a family. And
as 40 looms in the not-too-distant future, you're more than willing to add 10
years on each end because you become pickier about other qualities - a sense of
humor, commonalities and loyalty, for instance.

The last approach really is best: make the age range as broad as possible and
use other, more important, traits to narrow down your search.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Like is attracted to like, so choosing a partner based on his or her life
stage means you'll have more in common. Dating Games

GRAPHIC: Cartoon:  (Credit: Pepe Fainberg)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              754 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Sunday (Queensland)

                                 August 5, 2012

Uni aims at 12,000 students

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 231  words


THE University of the Sunshine Coast is on track to having 12,000 students by
2015 after 1600 new enrolments this semester.

The newest students to join up for semester two have boosted the campus's
numbers to about 8300 students.

Vice chancellor Professor Greg Hill said of those about 720 were international
students.

"The university is becoming increasingly busy," he said.

"Our numbers have gone up every semester. They have grown at about 10% a year on
average for the last six to seven years."

Prof Hill said the goal was to have 12,000 students by 2015.

"It won't be easily achieved, but we're confident we can do it," he said.

"We're getting a higher proportion of local high school students choosing us
instead of going to Brisbane, and there are plenty more people on the Coast
choosing to do university-level study."

Prof Hill said semester two had mostly mature-age students joining up or former
high school students who took a six-month break.

"Coast kids are taking gap years at double the rate of Brisbane kids," he said.
"We don't know why. The best guess is they want a rest from study and others
just want to make money.

"About 20% of high school students made an offer at university will defer. That
number has increased over the past 10 years from about 5% to 20%."

Prof Hill said the university was about to start building a $25 million learning
hub at the Sippy Downs campus.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SSS


                    Copyright 2012 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              755 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   The Times-Tribune (Scranton, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 23, 2008 Wednesday

Preparation key in choosing school

BYLINE: Brian Tenazas, The Times-Tribune, Scranton, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 749 words


Apr. 23--The prepared college seeker will be declared the victor at this year's
Northeastern College Fair.

The fair, hosted by the Pennsylvania Association of College Admission
Counseling, is scheduled April 28 from 9 a.m. to noon and 6 to 8 p.m. at
Wachovia Arena in Wilkes-Barre Township. Designed to provide an opportunity for
parents and students to meet with representatives of colleges and universities
and gather informative literature to help in the college search process, the
fair anticipates attendance by more than 190 representatives from colleges and
universities throughout the Eastern United States and parts of the Midwest.

Several financial lending institutions also will be on hand to offer information
on financial aid and borrowing.

"It is the largest event of its kind in Pennsylvania," said Linda Roerig, inside
advertising manager for The Times-Tribune in Scranton.

The Times-Tribune and its sister newspaper, The Citizens Voice in Wilkes-Barre,
are the media sponsors. Co-sponsoring is CampusDoor, a company that offers
student loans. Only colleges and companies that provide financial aid are
invited, Ms. Roerig said.

In 2007, the fair attracted 173 colleges, including Villanova University, Drexel
University, Lehigh University, Penn State and Catholic University. This year,
191 colleges will be participating, including the University of Scranton,
Marywood University, Keystone College, King's College, Wilkes University,
Misericordia University, Johnson College, Lackawanna College, Luzerne County
Community College and the local Penn State campuses. McCann School of Business,
Empire Beauty School and ITT Technical Institute also are sending
representatives.

"The fair is designed to get initial information on a university," said Glenn
Bozinski, director of admissions at Misericordia University in Dallas.

"The large majority of attendees will be high school juniors who want to take
that first step in a long, detailed process."

Prospective college students should do a bit of research on schools they are
interested in before coming to the fair.

Mr. Bozinski and Sarah Keating, director of admissions at Keystone College in La
Plume, recommend researching at least 10 to 15 colleges.

"There will be over 100 colleges present," Ms. Keating said.

"It doesn't hurt to do a little homework so you don't get overwhelmed."

Attendees should also come prepared with a list of questions to ask the
admissions representative of their chosen college.

"Students will have the opportunity to meet with an admissions counselor," she
said, "A prepared student with questions is more engaging and I get a better
impression of that student as an admission director."

"This is especially important at a small school like Keystone, because I will be
more likely to remember that person when I see their application." she said.

Questions about available majors, size, location and the admissions process
should be asked at the booth, according to Ms. Keating.

Mr. Bozinski said that students should ask about the next step.

"Students should ask about the next open house or when they can visit campus,"
he said.

Christian DiGregorio, associate director of undergraduate admissions at Marywood
University, prefers a different approach.

"Students need to ask specific, directed questions in order to get the important
answers they seek," Mr. DiGregorio said, "If they ask a general question like,
'How's your nursing program?' the admissions representative will likely give a
general answer."

He suggests asking questions like the outcomes of graduates, student-faculty
ratios and available internships through the school.

The Northeastern College Fair will open at 9 a.m. on April 28. College
admissions counselors will be available during the day and in the evening, and
financial aid officers and representatives of financial institutions will be
available to answer questions.

The event is free and open to the public. No advanced registration is required.
For directions to the fair, visit PACAC's Web site at www.pacac.org.

Contact the writer: btenazas@timesshamrock.com

To see more of The Times-Tribune or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.thetimes-tribune.com/. Copyright (c) 2008, The Times-Tribune,
Scranton, Pa. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080423-YT-Preparation-key-in-choosing-school-0423

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YT


                                 Copyright 2008


                              756 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     December 9, 2014 Tuesday 12:01 AM GMT

At long last, teachers are set to become high-status professionals;
An independent college of teaching backed by government will give teachers
professional equality with doctors and lawyers Ministers answer calls for a
College of Teaching

BYLINE: Nicky Morgan and David Laws

SECTION: COMMENT IS FREE

LENGTH: 600 words


Ask people what they think of their child's teacher and you will generally hear
nothing but praise. Ask them what they think of teaching as a profession and
opinions can become more diverse.

In a recent international study, only a quarter of people in Britain said they
would encourage their child to become a teacher. The equivalent figure in China
was 50%. There may be many reasons for this, but it is telling that in China the
majority said they think of teachers as being most closely comparable with
doctors. Fewer than 5% of people in the UK said the same.

We want this to change. More of our brightest and our best are now choosing to
go into teaching and to pass on their passion to the next generation. We have
more graduates from top universities choosing teaching than ever before.

But we must do more. We are currently analysing the results of one of the
largest-ever consultations of teachers, the Workload Challenge, to develop a
plan to reduce burdens on teachers still further and allow them to focus more on
what really matters. Now we want to help teachers shape the future of their
profession, too.

Many in the profession have talked of the need for a college of teaching over
the years. Yet such a professional body still does not exist. Teaching is almost
unique among professions in lacking such an organisation. This is an idea whose
time has come.

Government must not seek to control such a body. But we can do more to make the
vision a reality.

So on Tuesday we are announcing our support for the creation of a new,
independent college of teaching that can drive the profession forwards, helping
to put it on an equal footing with other high-status professions such as
medicine and law.

This new body will allow teachers, like other professionals, to set their own
high standards for their members; to take a lead in improving the profession's
skills and abilities, and to champion higher standards for children.

It is crucial that this body should be created and led by teachers, but
government can help things along, and we will do all we can to ensure a new
college of teaching can open its doors within the next couple of years.

But to take the profession to the level it deserves, we must also see a
revolution in the scale and quality of development opportunities available to
teachers. So, alongside this new body, we are establishing a fund to provide
more high-quality, evidence-based professional development, led by a network of
more than 600 outstanding teaching schools.

We want more teachers to be able to access the kind of first-class training and
opportunities offered to teachers in other high-performing schools systems
around the world.

In recent years, we've seen the start of a culture change, transforming teaching
into a more evidence-led profession - something we wholeheartedly support. But
too often teachers tell us that, despite pockets of excellent practice in
schools, the professional development they receive is poor quality and does
little to help them improve their practice.

Excellent professional development for teachers should not be the exception, but
the rule. Teaching should itself be a learning profession where teachers are
supported to keep their knowledge and practice fully up-to-date.

Delivering the best schools and skills is vital to the success of this
government's long-term economic plan. It is also the key to creating a fairer
society. Teachers have a crucial role to play in this, and we're pleased to be
able to back them.

· Nicky Morgan is education secretary and minister for women and equalities.
David Laws is minister for schools.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              757 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Moultrie Observer (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday

ABAC opens campus for high school students at Stallion Day Saturday

BYLINE: The Moultrie Observer, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 462 words


April 12--TIFTON -- High school juniors and seniors will have an opportunity to
explore the campus of Abraham Baldwin Agricultural College on April 16 at the
Spring Stallion Day. Registration begins at 9 a.m. in the Donaldson Dining Hall.

Director of Enrollment Management Donna Webb said choosing a college is a
difficult decision. ABAC is committed to making the decision process easier for
students and their families by hosting the annual spring open campus day event.

From 10-10:30 a.m., visiting parents will hear from ABAC students and their
parents in the Donaldson Dining Hall. Visiting students will have their own
sessions from 10:10-10:45 a.m., one geared to juniors in high school and another
focused on high school seniors.

"We have fantastic Conversation Corners for parents and students," said
Enrollment Counselor Brooke Jernigan. "Information regarding the application
process, financial aid, choosing a major, and making the transition to college a
little easier for both students and parents are just a few of the topics that
will be covered."

Conversation Corners will take place from 11-11:50 a.m. in the Health Sciences
building. Separate sessions for junior and senior students will be available, as
well as information on the athletics and honors programs and a session on
GACollege411.

A free lunch in the Donaldson Dining Hall will be provided for the visiting
students. Meals are available for parents at a cost of $6 per person. Two
application fee waivers will be given away during the lunch. Seniors will also
have the opportunity to apply for admission to ABAC during the Stallion Day
event.

Information sessions will begin at 1 p.m. in the Agricultural Sciences building.
Students can attend sessions on admissions and financial aid and another on
student life as both a resident and commuter student.

The day ends with an in-depth tour of the ABAC Lakeside freshman housing complex
on the north shore of Lake Baldwin. For students who would like to see what the
college offers in athletics, there will be a baseball game against Darton
College at 2 p.m. at the ABAC baseball field.

"We hope to confirm those decisions for seniors who have chosen ABAC and excite
those juniors who are getting ready to apply for college," said Jernigan. "It's
going to be a great day for all."

Prospective students should sign up ahead of time for the Stallion Day event at
www.abac.edu/stalliondays or call (229) 391-5004.

To see more of The Moultrie Observer or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.moultrieobserver.com. Copyright (c) 2011, The Moultrie Observer, Ga.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110412-GJ-ABAC-opens-campus-for-high-school-students-at-Stallion-Day-Saturday-
0412-20110412

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GJ


                      Copyright 2011 The Moultrie Observer


                              758 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 14, 2016 Wednesday

Washington: Choose a College More Easily with the College Scorecard

LENGTH: 602  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: U.S. Department of Education has issued the following news release:




 Even though my father was a guidance counselor, choosing a college was still an
overwhelming process. There were few independent reviews of colleges and no real
way of knowing if the information I found was accurate. Unearthing lesser known,
high quality colleges outside of my region was tough. It was even tougher to
figure out if a college's students found jobs after graduating or even graduated
at all. In short, I didn't know what I didn't know.





 The College Scorecard, called for by President Obama, solves this challenge by
giving everyone - students, families, guidance counselors and non-profits -
access to a whole host of data verified by the U.S. Department of Education on
thousands of institutions across the nation in an easy-to-use online tool.
College is still the best investment a person can make in them self--bachelor's
degree-holders earn roughly $1 million more over their lifetimes than high
school graduates. The College Scorecard makes choosing between thousands of
institutions easier by providing simple to understand information on
institutions' incoming students and the graduating students' outcomes. Along
with 1.5 million other folks, I'm using the Scorecard as I help my daughter in
her college search.



 Today, we updated the Scorecard as a part of our first annual data refresh. It
includes updates to our data on college completion, debt and repayment
statistics, and post-college earnings. This refresh now brings the College
Scorecard to 19 years of higher education data that is made available,
encompassing over 1,700 data points across 7,000 institutions. Also, we
highlighted key efforts to measure accurate completion rates and other student
outcomes, including the Student Achievement Measure and the Voluntary Framework
of Accountability.



 Since its redesign in September 2015, the Department has improved the Scorecard
to make it better for you. For example:



     In December 2015, we held a Technical Review Panel with representatives of
institutions, researchers, web developers, higher education associations, and
other experts, where we talked about improvements to the College Scorecard
website, data, and Application Programming Interface (API) - a tool to make our
data more easily accessible for the development of new applications and tools by
outside developers (to date, over 600 developers have accessed the Scorecard
API).

     In January 2016, we added nearly 700 additional institutions that
predominately grant certificates to the Scorecard for users to have even more
options when searching the website.

     In March 2016, through an interim data update, we removed closed
institutions and updated our "caution flags" for schools facing financial or
federal compliance issues. Providing information about institutions under review
by the Department helps ensure accountability for schools and protect the
interests of students.



 And we're not done yet. The higher education landscape is changing, and this
tool will itself change over time. We're working to integrate the College
Scorecard into the FAFSA; considering other cautionary indicators that students
should be aware of before enrolling in an institution, and continuously
improving the quality of our data, particularly around completion rates.



 We're working hard to make sure the Scorecard keeps up with students' needs.
Check out the updated College Scorecard and stay tuned for more!



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              759 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 14, 2016 Wednesday

Washington: Choose a College More Easily with the College Scorecard

LENGTH: 602  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: U.S. Department of Education has issued the following news release:




 Even though my father was a guidance counselor, choosing a college was still an
overwhelming process. There were few independent reviews of colleges and no real
way of knowing if the information I found was accurate. Unearthing lesser known,
high quality colleges outside of my region was tough. It was even tougher to
figure out if a college's students found jobs after graduating or even graduated
at all. In short, I didn't know what I didn't know.





 The College Scorecard, called for by President Obama, solves this challenge by
giving everyone - students, families, guidance counselors and non-profits -
access to a whole host of data verified by the U.S. Department of Education on
thousands of institutions across the nation in an easy-to-use online tool.
College is still the best investment a person can make in them self--bachelor's
degree-holders earn roughly $1 million more over their lifetimes than high
school graduates. The College Scorecard makes choosing between thousands of
institutions easier by providing simple to understand information on
institutions' incoming students and the graduating students' outcomes. Along
with 1.5 million other folks, I'm using the Scorecard as I help my daughter in
her college search.



 Today, we updated the Scorecard as a part of our first annual data refresh. It
includes updates to our data on college completion, debt and repayment
statistics, and post-college earnings. This refresh now brings the College
Scorecard to 19 years of higher education data that is made available,
encompassing over 1,700 data points across 7,000 institutions. Also, we
highlighted key efforts to measure accurate completion rates and other student
outcomes, including the Student Achievement Measure and the Voluntary Framework
of Accountability.



 Since its redesign in September 2015, the Department has improved the Scorecard
to make it better for you. For example:



     In December 2015, we held a Technical Review Panel with representatives of
institutions, researchers, web developers, higher education associations, and
other experts, where we talked about improvements to the College Scorecard
website, data, and Application Programming Interface (API) - a tool to make our
data more easily accessible for the development of new applications and tools by
outside developers (to date, over 600 developers have accessed the Scorecard
API).

     In January 2016, we added nearly 700 additional institutions that
predominately grant certificates to the Scorecard for users to have even more
options when searching the website.

     In March 2016, through an interim data update, we removed closed
institutions and updated our "caution flags" for schools facing financial or
federal compliance issues. Providing information about institutions under review
by the Department helps ensure accountability for schools and protect the
interests of students.



 And we're not done yet. The higher education landscape is changing, and this
tool will itself change over time. We're working to integrate the College
Scorecard into the FAFSA; considering other cautionary indicators that students
should be aware of before enrolling in an institution, and continuously
improving the quality of our data, particularly around completion rates.



 We're working hard to make sure the Scorecard keeps up with students' needs.
Check out the updated College Scorecard and stay tuned for more!



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              760 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               October 26, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

HOW DO WE MAKE IT WORK?

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. B6

LENGTH: 504 words



WORKING MOTHERS

ON Mother's Day this year, a commencement speaker at a leading women's college
told the graduates to wake up and smell the diapers.

You can't have it all, artist and erstwhile feminist Judy Chicago told the Smith
College graduates, warning that women who raise children will never fully
achieve their career ambitions. If they do, the kids will surely suffer, and so
will the working mother from profound guilt over the compromises she will make
in raising her family.

Ms. Chicago's mind-set -- and the amount of press she got for it -- should
concern the millions of American women who went back to work before their babies
turned 1 year old. On Tuesday, the Census Bureau announced that in 1998, 59
percent of the 3.7 million new mothers re-entered the work force. It was the
largest number ever recorded and a 31 percent increase since 1976.

For the first time ever, families in which both parents work also became the
majority in this country. The bureau said the trends have not peaked and aren't
expected to reverse.

Even with such a striking change in our country's labor force, it's not so much
a shocker that Ms. Chicago's made the remarks -- women's "selfishness" and
ambition have been blamed for everything from original sin to rape. But it is
surprising that there wasn't a louder outcry from the legions of working moms,
calling for the support they need.

It may be, as some sociologists have suggested, that our nation's working
mothers are just too tired to fight for what they and their families deserve:
Better, more affordable child care, more imaginative company benefits, more
tolerance and more flexible work schedules.

But it's also likely that their voices are silenced by their guilt -- guilt
fueled by the unfair and quaint notion that mothers are being selfish when they
choose to work. And that in choosing a career, they must choose to neglect their
kids.

One look at the new Census data shows that choosing to work may not be a matter
of economic necessity, but of a desire for equal access to prosperity. Many of
the women in the work force today are women with higher education, higher
incomes and higher expectations for their children. After all, if a woman
"chooses" not to work, isn't she possibly choosing not to be able to afford to
send her child to a prestigious college like Smith?

Ellen Galinsky, president of the Families and Work Institute, told The New York
Times that there's still a widely held -- but completely false -- belief that
the trend is reversing and more moms are opting to stay home to raise their
kids. She said it's time for America to accept the reality of working moms:
"It's time to move beyond, 'Is it good, is it bad?' and get to 'How do we make
it work?' "

Ms. Galinsky is absolutely right. If we continue to view working moms as a
problem that needs to be reversed, we're kidding ourselves and hurting families.
What really needs reversing are attitudes that don't make child care a top
priority for everyone.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              761 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Saudi Gazette

                            December 4, 2017 Monday

Vision 2030 'perfect timing for personal development'

BYLINE: Hanan Alnufaie

LENGTH: 510  words


Masters Legacy's forum at King Abdulaziz Center for National Dialogue

Hanan Alnufaie




Saudi Gazette

RIYADH -- "It is the perfect timing for personal development," Masters Legacy, a
Saudi company that is specialized in training HR consultants, said at the
opening of its forum entitled "Empowerment and leading - Birkman" at King
Abdulaziz Center for National Dialogue on Dec. 3-5. The gathering provides
sessions and workshops on self-awareness, productivity and success stories from
Birkman consultants who have been gaining successes in helping individuals and
enriching their lives.



"We said it is the perfect time for personal development, because a crucial part
of the Kingdom's Vision 2030 is to have highly productive society armed with the
right qualifications and skill set.

"This is what we do with Birkman, an American assessment tool used in many
areas, including family counseling, coaching, personal developments, advising
students to help them chose their majors, and at a professional level such as
hiring the right candidates in the right positions which helps companies save
money and effort, reduce turnover, and raising productivity of the employees,
promoting, training analysis, and redeploying," Mohanad Magid, Managing Partner
of Masters Legacy, told Saudi Gazette.

Since they started in the Kingdom in 2014, there were challenges in encouraging
people and employees to undergo the Birkman assessment and in certifying
consultants as well. "However, now we have over 250 Saudis who are certified as
consultants, some of them in family counseling and coaching while others are in
education and HR. They are helping people in analyzing their reports. There are
demands on a daily basis," Majid commented.

"We had cooperation with one of the big Saudi private schools which asked us to
certify consultants there, then after we trained and certified coaches, they
have helped more than 500 female students in choosing their university majors.
We got awesome feedback from their families," he added.

Self awareness can help individuals a lot in choosing their right major who can
save effort and raise one joy of what she-he studies, choosing the right job,
having a clear vision, choosing the right partner and understanding others.

"Birkman assessment and then having sessions with our consultants can also help
married couple to understand themselves and each other, we can conduct it on a
husband and a wife, then we generate a report. Lots of divorced couples got back
after Birkman. Once someone takes the Birkaman, consultants can generate more
than 60 reports," he clarified.


Speaking of the clients' experience, Majid said: "One mother called me once to
ask "where were you three years ago?", because her son kept transferring from
one college to another thinking that he was a loser. But when he conducted the
Birkman and we gave him recommendations of the majors that suit him, then he
chose law and graduated from the college.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/75/151248790056.jpg

Vision 2030 'perfect timing for personal development'

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1526


                       Copyright 2017 The Saudi Gazette.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              762 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            January 30, 2017 Monday
                                   Edition 1;

City university leads the way in speed of growth

BYLINE: ENDA MULLEN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 467 words


COVENTRY University has been revealed as one of the fastest growing universities
in the country - helping fuel the surge in demand for more accommodation in the
city.

The university saw student numbers shoot up by eight per cent in 2016, as 8,130
people accepted places on full-time undergraduate degree courses across the
university, which also has campuses in London and Scarborough.

Its continued success made it the second-fastest growing university and third
largest in the UK for annual full time acceptances.

Student numbers have increased by 50 per cent since 2011, according to UCAS
figures, as the campus casts its net far and wide to attract students.

Coventry is currently seeing a boom in the construction of student accommodation
across the city centre. A number of large-scale projects are underway and plans
have been approved for more.

It has been argued that more student flats are needed to get students out of
homes in the city that could be used for families.

The soaring number of students are bringing extra spending power to the city
centre, which has been struggling but is set for a £300million revamp thanks to
the City Centre South project which took a major step forward last week.

The number of EU students choosing undergraduate courses at the university
through UCAS grew by 36 per cent - to 1,220 accepted applicants last year. The
UCAS data also demonstrated Coventry is drawing students from across the
country, with London the second biggest feeder area, supplying more than one in
five of the university's student intake last year. More West Midlands students
than ever before are also choosing Coventry, with the number of applicants from
the region increasing by six per cent.

Welcoming the news Professor John Latham, Vice-Chancellor of Coventry
University, said: "I'm proud we've become one of the most successful and
attractive universities in the UK, without losing our special character and
reputation for excellent teaching, preparing students for careers and offering
international experiences across all of our courses."

Coventry University's growth has seen demand for student accommodation in the
city soar.

Crosslane Group, which recently submitted a planning application for a 19-storey
student accommodation block on Friar's Road near the city centre, said its
interest in Coventry was in part due to the fact Coventry University is one of
the fastest-growing in the UK.

Crosslane said the university has announced major investment in its facilities
and buildings over the next five years, something which is expected to further
increase student applications.

A spokesman for the company said demand for "welllocated, premium purposebuilt
student accommodation in the city continues to increase" and that there was
currently a "significant supplydemand imbalance".

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CVT


                   Copyright 2017 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              763 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 13, 2012 Sunday

Application sales push college earnings

BYLINE: Jui Mukherjee

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 619 words


HYDERABAD: City colleges seem to be laughing their way to the bank this
admissions season and have their application forms to thank for the windfall
with the hike in the price of forms serving to fill their coffers. The cost of
application forms has steadily increased over the past four to five years,
making applying to two or more courses an expensive affair.

Students finishing their Intermediate or Class XII exams are encouraged to
explore all options when it comes to choosing a college and selecting a course
but may have to end up spending between Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000 on the cost of
application forms.

Till five years back, the combined cost of a college application form along with
the prospectus and additional registration ranged between Rs 100 and Rs 150.
But, now, the cost of a form may range between Rs 300 and Rs 550 with college
authorities blaming rising printing costs for the price escalation.

At Loyola Degree College, students seeking admission are being asked to shell
out Rs 550 for the application form, college prospectus and registration fee for
all courses. Badruka College of Commerce and Arts charges Rs 350 for the same.

Institutions like Kasturba Gandhi College, St Francis College and Bhavan's
Vivekananda College are charging Rs 300 while Nizam College and Villa Marie
College are charging Rs 200 to Rs 250 per form.

When TOI enquired among the various degree colleges in the city about the prices
of their admission forms and prospectus, several officials conveniently omitted
the registration fee from the figures.

It was only upon probing deeper that the total cost was revealed. While Villa
Marie College and Kasturba Gandhi College, respectively, charge Rs 50 and Rs 60
towards registration fees, Bhavan's Vivekananda College and Badruka College
charge Rs 100 and St Francis College, Rs 150.

Some officials of colleges affiliated to Osmania University have even claimed
that the amount collected trhough sale application forms goes to the university.
However, Pratap Reddy, director of Academics and the Audit Cell at OU, denied
any such practice.

"No such amount comes to OU. The colleges are only allowed to charge an amount
which will allow them to recover expenditure on the admission process," he
revealed.

Many colleges in the city are cashing in on the tendency of students to try
their luck in more than one course by making it compulsory to purchase a
separate form for each course. Hema Yashaswini, who recently completed her
Intermediate, said: "I went to just two colleges and yet have already spent
nearly Rs 1,000 towards application forms alone as I wanted to apply for both
BCom and BBA courses."

J Vani Sri, whose daughter is seeking admission in a city college, said: "There
are very few colleges in the city which offer the convenience of applying for
more than one course in the same form or charge only half the amount for an
additional form. The amount spent in simply purchasing applications now is at
least Rs 2,000."

Applicants looking to explore all possible alternatives are now considering a
change in the current practice in order to minimize costs. Dheeraj Sai Sunder,
another student applying to city colleges, said: "Students definitely want to
keep open as many options as possible. Although parents don't mind spending big
amounts when it comes to choosing the right college and the right course, I am
sure they definitely feel the pinch.

"Very often, as a second option, we buy the application form for a particular
college which we never get around to filling up as our focus shifts away from
that college. Maybe, from now on, we will have to be more careful about such
things as it is getting just too expensive."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              764 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 13, 2012 Sunday

Application sales push college earnings

BYLINE: Jui Mukherjee

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 619 words


HYDERABAD: City colleges seem to be laughing their way to the bank this
admissions season and have their application forms to thank for the windfall
with the hike in the price of forms serving to fill their coffers. The cost of
application forms has steadily increased over the past four to five years,
making applying to two or more courses an expensive affair.

Students finishing their Intermediate or Class XII exams are encouraged to
explore all options when it comes to choosing a college and selecting a course
but may have to end up spending between Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000 on the cost of
application forms.

Till five years back, the combined cost of a college application form along with
the prospectus and additional registration ranged between Rs 100 and Rs 150.
But, now, the cost of a form may range between Rs 300 and Rs 550 with college
authorities blaming rising printing costs for the price escalation.

At Loyola Degree College, students seeking admission are being asked to shell
out Rs 550 for the application form, college prospectus and registration fee for
all courses. Badruka College of Commerce and Arts charges Rs 350 for the same.

Institutions like Kasturba Gandhi College, St Francis College and Bhavan's
Vivekananda College are charging Rs 300 while Nizam College and Villa Marie
College are charging Rs 200 to Rs 250 per form.

When TOI enquired among the various degree colleges in the city about the prices
of their admission forms and prospectus, several officials conveniently omitted
the registration fee from the figures.

It was only upon probing deeper that the total cost was revealed. While Villa
Marie College and Kasturba Gandhi College, respectively, charge Rs 50 and Rs 60
towards registration fees, Bhavan's Vivekananda College and Badruka College
charge Rs 100 and St Francis College, Rs 150.

Some officials of colleges affiliated to Osmania University have even claimed
that the amount collected trhough sale application forms goes to the university.
However, Pratap Reddy, director of Academics and the Audit Cell at OU, denied
any such practice.

"No such amount comes to OU. The colleges are only allowed to charge an amount
which will allow them to recover expenditure on the admission process," he
revealed.

Many colleges in the city are cashing in on the tendency of students to try
their luck in more than one course by making it compulsory to purchase a
separate form for each course. Hema Yashaswini, who recently completed her
Intermediate, said: "I went to just two colleges and yet have already spent
nearly Rs 1,000 towards application forms alone as I wanted to apply for both
BCom and BBA courses."

J Vani Sri, whose daughter is seeking admission in a city college, said: "There
are very few colleges in the city which offer the convenience of applying for
more than one course in the same form or charge only half the amount for an
additional form. The amount spent in simply purchasing applications now is at
least Rs 2,000."

Applicants looking to explore all possible alternatives are now considering a
change in the current practice in order to minimize costs. Dheeraj Sai Sunder,
another student applying to city colleges, said: "Students definitely want to
keep open as many options as possible. Although parents don't mind spending big
amounts when it comes to choosing the right college and the right course, I am
sure they definitely feel the pinch.

"Very often, as a second option, we buy the application form for a particular
college which we never get around to filling up as our focus shifts away from
that college. Maybe, from now on, we will have to be more careful about such
things as it is getting just too expensive."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              765 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Halifax Daily News (Nova Scotia)

                             May 11, 2005 Wednesday

Change approach to racism, author says

BYLINE: Jones, Lindsay

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 274  words


Author and university professor Cecil Foster spoke optimistically about obvious
changes people need to make at the Nova Scotia Human Rights Commission public
forum yesterday. The topic of his speech was the challenge of becoming Canadian.

"There is one thing that I do not want to do; that is, what I call having a
lament, and dwell on the despair of our lives," Foster said at the World Trade
and Convention Centre. "Yes, race and racism are very serious problems. They
leave each and every one of us diminished, whether we are the victims or the
perpetrators.

"What I want to reflect on is what we can do. I want us to reclaim the hope that
things can and must get better."

Foster is the author of the book Where Race Doesn't Matter, which argues Canada
is becoming a country without racism. He is also an anthropology professor at
University of Guelph.

'Identity of our choosing'

"We should advocate for the identity of our choosing, and not what some more
dominant group would want us to internalize," he said.

Foster asked why the province and the country are reluctant to bring in more
immigrants.

"Could it be that the dominant groups in Canada are afraid of the significant
demographic changes such a move would mean?" he asked.

Because of this, and various attitudes regarding superiority, inferiority and
equality, there's a need for obvious change, Foster said. "We must start by
imagining ourselves as equal."

"Here is where I raise the idealism of my book - rather than laws, we need a
good spirit. We need to believe that all of us are equal. But more than that, we
have to start acting like this equality is the only option."

ljones@hfxnews.ca

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cecil Foster: "We have to start acting like this equality is the only
option."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              766 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                            March 15, 2017 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ditching a language will restrict college choices

BYLINE: Aoife Walsh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1015 words


CHOOSING subjects for the Leaving Cert can be a difficult task for students and
their parents. Concern stems from a need to ensure students do not rule
themselves out of college courses they may wish to be considered for in the
future. Although third level institutions have fewer requirements than one might
think, one very important consideration is whether or not students should
continue with a language.

This week, we look at some questions transition year and third year students may
have as they begin to make the decisions that may influence their future
choices. Many people wrongly believe that if a foreign language is not chosen by
students, they will not be able to attend third level.

Some schools allow students not to take a language at Leaving Cert and many
students who do not enjoy languages or find them difficult are happy to drop it.
However, the decision to drop a language should not be taken lightly. Not having
a modern language in your Leaving Certificate can greatly impact on choices in
the future.

@For most third level institutions, it is not necessary to have a foreign
language in order to meet the matriculation requirement. For Trinity College
Dublin, students are required to 'pass' English, another language and maths or
Latin. The matriculation requirements for Dublin City University are maths and
English or Irish. University of Limerick requires students to present English,
maths and Irish or another language. Therefore, if a student does not take a
foreign language at Leaving Cert, they should still meet the requirements for
these universities as long as they take Irish or have an Irish exemption.

Institutes of technology generally expect students to have passes in English and
maths for matriculation, so not choosing a language should have no impact on a
candidate's ability to attend one of these institutions. Neither do PLC colleges
require students to have taken a language.

However, students may find not taking a language a major problem when it comes
to accessing the four NUI universities (UCC, NUI Galway, UCD and MU). All these
colleges require students to hold an O6 or H7 in English and Irish in order to
matriculate. Students must also hold an O6 or H7 in a third language to take
courses in the arts, human sciences, law, social sciences, commerce, medicine
and health sciences, and some other degrees. Students are not required to pass a
language for entry to engineering or agricultural science. Maynooth University
recently announced that it will no longer require students to have a modern
European language for entry to some business courses.

A modern European language will also be required for application to cadetships
in the Defence www.Forces.ie The impact of all of the above for a student's
course choices is that, while not choosing a language will not affect entry to
the majority of third level institutions, it will restrict choice as they will
be excluded from the majority of courses in NUI universities.

A student with an Irish exemption may apply for an exemption from the
requirement to present Irish as a matriculation subject from their chosen
institution. They may also apply to NUI for an exemption from the requirement to
take a third language. All Level 8 (honours degree) courses require students to
achieve two H5 grades and four O6 grades. Trinity requires students to achieve
three H5s and three O6s for entry to Level 8 courses.

Aoife Walsh is a guidance counsellor at Malahide Community School, Co Dublin
IMPORTANT DATES TODAY ? Spring Open Day - Teagasc Gurteen Agricultural College ?
Interview day - Rathmines College of Further Education ? Information day -
Sallynoggin College of Further Education ? Women in Engineering & Computers
event - Dublin City University MARCH 23 ? Spring Open Day - Pallaskenry
Agricultural College MARCH 24 ? Deadline for some art and design courses - UCAS
QMY DAUGHTER wishes to drop out of her degree. She is a first year student and
says she likes about one third of her course. She has a good Leaving Cert and
high enough points. She has submitted a late application to the CAO, but we're
wondering if she should leave now or is it possible to transfer to another
course. What should she do? AIT IS not uncommon for students to have moments
like this where they feel overwhelmed by work, unable to compete in the very
different academic environment third level presents, or unclear about how this
course can fit into their future. This is especially common in first year.

I would not rush into making any decision just yet. I think her first port of
call is to explore why she wants to leave in a deep and meaningful way. This can
be difficult to do with a parent, and perhaps a counsellor in college or locally
would help. There may be something more to this, of which even she is not aware.

Next, find someone in the college to speak to about her www.concerns.No college
wants students to drop out and it can be a matter of finding the right person.
This may take a little persistence, something that can be difficult for a
student who is already feeling a little inadequate in relation to college.
Depending on the structure of the college, this may be a tutor, the careers
department, a counsellor, head of course, etc. There may be opportunities to
transfer within the college and these should be fully explored before making a
decision.

It is possible to transfer college at the end of first year. In order to avail
of this option, your daughter should complete first year and will be considered
for other courses based on her end of first year results. Further information is
available from the CAO or the college to which she wishes to transfer.

I would encourage her to finish first year, but you may wish to check if this
will affect her liability for fees if she does wish to retake first year. She
should aiming for the best results possible: this will help her if she does wish
to transfer and she may also settle by the end of year, especially if she does
better in her exams that she expects.

Contact Aoife at aoifewalsh@independent.Twitter: @edguidance  ;

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              767 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                         January 13, 1993, CITY EDITION

It is the degree, not the college, that matters

BYLINE: Christina Murphy

SECTION: HOME NEWS; COUNTDOWN TO COLLEGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1084 words


IS ONE university better than another? Are degrees from the older universities
more prestigious than those from the newer ones? What is the status of an RTC
degree? These are some of the questions facing applicants; even those who may
have decided exactly what discipline they wish to study find themselves
dithering as to which college to choose.

The first point to be made about choosing a college is that there is no single
college which is better at everything than any other college: UCD has a high
reputation for engineering, ,Trinity has it for psychology; Kevin Street is very
highly regarded in applied science, as is the RTC Cork for chemical engineering.

It does not make sense as an applicant, therefore, to decide to go all-out for
one college, regardless of discipline. It is simply not true that employers will
always go for a Trinity degree or a UCD degree, regardless of discipline.

You get applicants who want to do, say, a business degree and decide to opt for
Trinity. But when they come to their second or third preferences, instead of
entering commerce or business studies degrees in other colleges, they put in
maybe Trinity arts, on the assumption that employers will always prefer a
Trinity degree no matter what.

This is simply not the case. If employers want someone with a business degree,
then they are not going to opt for an arts graduate simply because he or she
went to Trinity - or UCD. If that were the case, Trinity or UCD would have 100
per cent success for job placement of their graduates and, of course, they don't
- and neither does any other college.

So, it makes sense to choose by preferred discipline rather than by college.

What about the old versus the new? The newer universities to a considerable
extent offer different types of courses and a different orientation to the  old.
DCU  for example, specialises in communication s/journalism and  applied  la
nguages; the University of Limerick has a very extensive specialisation in
engineering/ technological courses.

The main difference is that the courses tend to be more p ractical and applied
than in the older universities. Some can find this intellectually stultifying
but it has considerable advantages from the point of view of employment. UL, in
particular, with its strong component of work placement in each course, enjoys a
very high level of success in the jobs market for its graduates.

As far as the status of the degrees is concerned, there is no problem. Both
universities are well-regarded and their degrees are well-recognised by
employers. The degrees from DIT colleges such as Kevin Street and Bolton Street
have a long tradition behind them and all are well regarded. They are all
awarded by Trinity College, so the DIT graduates end up with a Trinity degree.

In the case of the RTCs, the degrees are awarded by the National Council for
Educational Awards (NCEA). This is a Government-sponsored body whose job it is
to ensure that all RTC degrees are of the proper standard. As with the
universities, some RTCs have established reputations for themselves in
particular areas and they offer some degree courses not available at
universities at all.

Thus, the RTC in Galway

has a very highly regarded degree in hotel management and Athlone RTC offers a
degree in polymer technology, an area in which it has built up a very
considerable specialisation. Quantity surveying, for example, is only on offer
as a degree in the DIT's Bolton Street (construction economics) and in CoACT in
Limerick (its title is to be changed to that of RTC under new legislation).

RTC Cork is highly regarded for engineering (with full chartered status) and
Waterford RTC offers the only de gree available in construction management. So,
RTC degrees 'do have a lot to offer.

The main point to remember in relation to choosing a college is that, when it
comes to finding a job, the focus is on you. When it comes to choosing between
someone with a first- class honours degree from UL and a third-class honours
from UCD, there is no contest.

It is the calibre of your degree that matters much more than the college you
attended. A first or a two-one (second- class honours, grade 1) will always
attract a potential employer more than a bad degree from a prestigious
university.

The other point to remember in relation to "marketability" of degrees is that a
lot depends on the personality and character of the graduate. Every applicant
for a particular job will have a degree; what an 'employer is often looking for
is what the graduate has to offer over and above the degree; how you can impress
an interview oar , the extent to which you can show initiative, confidence and
leadership potential are just as important as your degree.

A timid, inarticulate, unenterprising graduate from a "top" university is
unlikely to get the job in competition with a bright, confident graduate from a,
much less well-known institution .

There is one final point to consider in relation to choosing a college and that
is geographic location. Many Dublin families are still reluctant to consider
colleges outside the capital. De- spite the existence of so many excellent
colleges in Dublin, including the  three universities, the six DIT colleges, the
colleges of education, the colleges of art and design and Tallaght RTC - and
indeed Maynooth can be considered part of the greater Dublin catchment area - it
is more difficult to get a college place in Dublin than outside.

This comes about mainly because of the huge numbers of applicants living in the
Dublin area.

Statistics compiled for the Higher Education Authority (HEA) show that, while up
to 33 per cent of the relevant age group get,into higher education in counties
such as Galway, Mayo, Cork and Kerry, it is only 20 per cent in Dublin. And thi
s is almost  c ertainly "related, to  a certain extent,  to the ease with which
students from rural counties  are  prepared to travel to many locations for a
college place, while many Dubliners are not.

It is a very shortsighted approach for a Dublin applicant to consider only
colleges in the greater Dublin area - and many do so.  By failing to consider
courses outside Dublin, you are again substantially reducing your range of
options and your chances of getting a place.

It is also true that there are options on offer outside Dublin which are not
available in the capital - like law as an arts degree subject in UCG, for
example.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 1993 The Irish Times


                              768 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                            April 12, 2003 Saturday

Adelaide's Bangkok connection

SECTION: EMPLOYMENT; Pg. E44

LENGTH: 363 words


ADELAIDE business college Trison wants to spread its educational word around the
globe.

It is not just local students who are taking advantage of the wide range of
courses but also overseas students, says college manager Cheryl Whittenbury.

With new markets opening fast, Ms Whittenbury says many overseas students are
increasingly choosing Adelaide to further their education.

The college is trying to entice more overseas students into the college, in
particularly from Thailand and China, she says.

These students not only hone their English skills here, they also bring lots of
valuable dollars into the South Australian economy, Ms Whittenbury says.

She points out that the Iraq war is an ongoing consideration. More students are
choosing to study in Australia, rather than the United States or Britain.

"We tell the students that Adelaide has a lower cost of living, it is friendly,
relaxed and a safe environment to live in," Ms Whittenbury says. "For students
in Thailand especially, they have much better job prospects if they can speak
English as well. As we have no provisions for translation in our classes, we
find that their English gets so much better because we encourage them to mix
with English speakers."

For student Pornthep Prasertsan, studying Certificate Four in Small Business
Management while he is over here from Bangkok, Thailand, living in Adelaide is
"very good".

"It is cheap and it has a lower cost of living compared to Sydney and
Melbourne," says Mr Prasertsan, 30.

He has not found learning English very difficult as he had the "fundamental"
skills from Thailand.

"In Thailand, I only learnt in English," says Mr Prasertsan, who returns to
Thailand in July.

Conducting business classes since 1997, Ms Whittenbury says courses such as
business administration, human resources and workplace training are taught with
flexibility in mind.

These ways include online via the Internet, attending class, distance education
or a combination of methods, she says.

The Trison's qualifications are recognised by other registered training centres,
TAFE and universities throughout Australia.

  *  Inquiries: 8326 0148.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 2003 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              769 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                             April 10, 2012 Tuesday

Dropout rate linked to wrong academic choice

BYLINE: Rayeesa AbsalStaff Reporter

LENGTH: 750 words


Dubai Choosing the wrong academic path without properly researching available
options is one of the most common reasons for students dropping out of
university or college, education officials have said.

At a forum titled âEUR~Making Higher Education Choices in Dubai' organised by
the Dubai School of Government in partnership with the Knowledge and Human
Development Authority (KHDA) yesterday, officials said that the most important
decision a secondary school graduate has to make is the choice of a higher
education course.

Hence high school students and parents must make well-informed choices by
seeking out information using available resources while choosing higher
education institutions, taking into consideration the wide range of programmes
and career options available, the KHDA recommended.

The authority's recommendations to improve the students' decision-making process
were presented at the forum as a policy brief, authored by Fatima Bel Rehif,
Head of Dubai Schools Inspection Bureau at KHDA, and Hanan Al Fardan,
coordinator at the higher education department at KHDA.

Pressure groups

The paper identifies family, friends and peers, teachers, career counsellors and
mentors as the key groups that influence decisions related to higher education
institutions in Dubai.

It urges pupils leaving secondary school, particularly Emiratis, to seek advice
from multiple sources.

It also calls for the need to encourage awareness within schools of the
differing roles of career counsellors and guidance counsellors and the
importance of providing access to both.

"Integrate a systematic approach across the school to nurture a broader
awareness of career opportunities within society and particularly amongst
Emiratis," the paper recommends.

"Another important factor that also needs be taken into account is the entry
requirements for a particular course and the likely grades the student will be
required to achieve. In making these choices, it is important to be realistic,"
the paper says.

It called on higher education institutions to more actively engage with
employers and the wider community to ensure that programmes offered and graduate
skills are relevant to the job market.

Coordination

It also highlights the need for schools and universities to work more
effectively with each other, including encouragement of participation in open
days, career fairs, university fairs, etc.

It urged the Dubai Government to use its resources to increase awareness about
the courses offered, their employment potential and costs besides campuses.

"Over the last 10 years, Dubai has witnessed a significant growth in the number
of institutions and the variety of higher education courses offered, especially
at free zone-based institutions. School leavers can now access a wide range of
courses and qualifications that are recognised by the private sector and
government organisations," said Dr Abdullah Al Karam, director-general of KHDA.

"Our research and policy brief identifies the main factors affecting student
choice. It additionally highlights the importance of providing accurate
information and counselling to students and their families to help them make the
right decision," he added.

The paper points out that private universities have seen a considerable increase
in their Emirati enrolment in recent years, despite the fact that enrolment in
federal institutions is free for them. The wide number of programme offered here
tend to be concentrated within a few fields, mainly in business, law, religion,
IT and engineering, while there are fewer opportunities to specialise in natural
and physical sciences, mathematics, education, agriculture, transport and health
care.

statistics

variety of programmes

Dubai's higher education landscape boasts 52 institutions offering a variety of
programmes. These institutions include federal institutions, branch campuses of
international universities which are located in the free zones and private UAE
universities.

Federal institutions cater mainly to Emiratis, while the others cater mainly to
the expatriate population.

Nearly 43,000 students enrolled last year in Dubai campuses. In all, there were
281 bachelor's programmes on offer with a further 151 programmes also available
for post-graduate study.

Bachelor's programmes accounted for 69 per cent of students.

Post-graduate programmes attracted 19 per cent of students.

The most popular fields of study were Business (40 per cent of students) and
Society, Law and Religion (19 per cent of students).

- R.A.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2012 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              770 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                            February 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Students experiment at university;
SCHOOLS

BYLINE: BENJAMIN LONG

SECTION: IQ; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 573 words


During the summer holidays, while their classmates were kicking back at the
beach or practising their manoeuvres at skate parks, a group of enthusiastic
students donned lab coats and conducted experiments at the University of
Wollongong. From January 19-21, 41 school students took part in UOW's Science
Experience - a fun and informative hands-on science education program for
students entering Year 10 in 2011. The budding young scientists came from
western NSW, Sydney, the South Coast and the Illawarra and participated in a
range of hands-on workshops hosted by UOW's Faculty of Science and the Faculties
of Engineering and Informatics. For the students it was a chance to work with
academic staff in UOW labs and use equipment normally only accessible to UOW
students. It also gave them the opportunity to talk to university students about
their own experiences at high school and university, and to meet students their
own age who shared an enthusiasm for science.

UOW Science Experience director Melissa Thompson said the event was an
opportunity to introduce the students to as many aspects of science studies at
UOW as possible with the hope that students will continue these studies at high
school and eventually at university. "Later this year the students will be
choosing subjects for Year 11 and 12, so it is an opportunity for them to work
out what sciences they might be interested in," Ms Thompson said. "It is also an
opportunity for us to emphasise the importance of them choosing two HSC science
subjects and mathematics. It is not a prerequisite for studying science at
university, but we find that it is much better for them if they have that
background knowledge before they start at university." This year's program
included a few new events, including a field trip to Futureworld Eco-technology
Centre and a science show presented by Young Scientists of Australia, an
organisation of university and high school students dedicated to the promotion
and awareness of science. "Each year we try to improve the program, and two of
the highlights this year were the visit to Futureworld and the Young Scientists
of Australia who put on an entertaining show involving dry ice and liquid
nitrogen," Ms Thompson said. "We also ran a new session on earth and
environmental science that focused on volcanoes - examining the effect of lava
flow on volcanic eruption styles. They played around with honey to work out how
different eruption styles behaved." Other workshops involved the science of
computer hacking, creating crazy chemical concoctions, measuring the temperature
of absolute zero and DNA investigations. "It's a really wonderful program and
the students were all very enthusiastic - they gave up some of their holidays to
participate," Ms Thompson said. "We survey the students each year to get their
feedback on the program and the responses this year were very positive. "They
really enjoyed being exposed to the University of Wollongong labs, which are
bigger, shinier and better equipped than the school labs they are used to.
"Another comment that we get every year is how much they enjoy meeting
like-minded students and student volunteers." The Science Experience is managed
nationally by the Science Schools Foundation and co-ordinated locally by the the
UOW Faculty of Science. To find out more about the Science Experience go to
www.uow.edu.au/science/experience/index.html or www.scienceexperience.com.au

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Making copper compounds during one of the workshops at the
Science Experience are students Eileen Wallace from Wollongong and Terence
Wiseham from Gerringong. They are being assisted by Dr Glennys O'Brien and PhD
student Helen Price from the School of Chemistry.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2011 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              771 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                        The News of the World (England)

                             April 20, 2008 Sunday

'I'll never have babies - I'm too scared to give birth'

BYLINE: Beverley Kemp

SECTION: FABULOUS REPORTS...; THE BIRTH PHOBICS; INTERVIEW; ELEONORA BAILEY

LENGTH: 1114 words


THERE'S NO DISPUTING THAT CHILDBIRTH IS PAINFUL - BUT MORE AND MORE WOMEN ARE
NOW SO TERRIFIED OF IT, THEY'RE CHOOSING TO REMAIN CHILDLESS

Whenever Eleonora Bailey is stressed, she has a recurring nightmare. She wakes
up drenched in sweat with an ache in her pelvis and visions of pools of blood.
The emotions feel so real, it takes her a while to realise it was only a dream
and the event she dreads most isn't actually happening - she isn't giving birth.

"I only have to read about a woman going through labour for my hands to shake
and my face to become hot and clammy," says Eleonora, 35, from Hampshire.
"During my teens my mother would tell me that giving birth to my sister and I
was torture for her. The agony she described terrified me and I thought: 'I
don't ever want to experience that.'"

Ironically, Eleonora is a nurse, which has only made things worse.

"At college we learnt all about what can go wrong during birth," she explains.
"The horrific accounts of ruptures, torn muscles, stitches and bladder damage
made me feel sick. It seemed to be that your body is never the same again."

Eleonora is one of an increasing number of women who admit to suffering from
tokophobia - an extreme and morbid fear of childbirth. The condition affects up
to one in six women, and is the unacknowledged cause of many choosing to remain
childless.

Birth phobia can strike even the most grounded of women. Actress Helen Mirren -
who's 62 and has never had children - confessed in a recent interview that
watching a harrowing video of childbirth at 13 put her off having babies for
life. "It traumatised me to this day," she revealed. "I haven't had children and
I can't look at anything to do with childbirth. It absolutely disgusts me."

Her experience is not uncommon. Tokophobia often develops in adolescence as a
result of hearing horror stories about giving birth, or other past traumas.

Eleonora's fears grew worse when her younger sister had a baby and told her how
excruciating childbirth was.

"She seemed to sense that birth would be something I couldn't endure," says
Eleonora. "For me, the idea of giving birth is not just something scary I know
I'll get through when the time comes, it's something I have an abject horror of.
I've never been pregnant, but I know for certain that if I had been, I'd have
had a termination."

The first study of tokophobia took place in 2000 by psychiatrists Dr Kristina
Hofberg and Professor Ian Brockington of South Staffordshire NHS Trust. They
interviewed 370 childless women and discovered one in seven of them had
postponed or avoided pregnancy because of a dread of childbirth.

"This is more than just a fear of pregnancy," said Dr Hofberg. "It's a
pathological terror that, in its most extreme form, can result in women taking
steps to abort by behaving recklessly, abusing alcohol or drugs, or even
punching their abdomens.

"Some women get sterilised, while others avoid pregnancy altogether. This is
especially sad for women who want babies, but just can't face the realities of
pregnancy."

Since marrying engineer Paul 18 months ago, Eleonora's fear of pregnancy has
reached fever pitch. She told him about her phobia of childbirth early in their
relationship, but suspects he believes she'll just get over it.

"He tried to be sympathetic, but I guess he thinks I'm just being silly," she
says. "Paul is desperate to be a dad and I think he hopes it's just a matter of
time. When our families ask us when we're going to have children, I laugh it
off. I say I'm not ready to start a family until we're financially secure, but
the truth is this has become an overwhelming phobia."

In fact, Eleonora is so terrified of giving birth that in spite of being on the
pill, she finds herself making excuses not to have sex. "I feel guilty because I
love Paul and don't want to hurt him. But at weekends I'll get up early and plan
a manic day of activity so we're too exhausted to make love," she says.

For some birth phobics, there is a happy outcome. In 2006, Nichola Cooke, 24,
from Plymouth, won her battle to have her baby delivered by Caesarean after
complaining her consultant hadn't taken her fear of giving birth seriously. "I
can't imagine anything freakier than a natural birth," she revealed.

Many women are opting for the same solution to their terror. A Swedish study of
mothers-to-be, published in February, found that of those who were planning an
elective Caesarean, 43 per cent were doing so because of a fear of natural
childbirth.

Gillian Fletcher, who has been teaching birthing classes for 35 years, advises:
"Find a midwife or obstetrician who can empathise with you and talk through the
birthing process. Discover just how your body works to accommodate the baby."

Counselling can also help, and some doctors may offer you a planned Caesarean.

The real tragedy is the women who long for children but, because of their fears,
leave it too late - then regret it. Eleonora realises that this is a very real
risk for her.

"There's only so long I can avoid this," she admits. "But I know I would have to
change something buried deep in my psyche before I could even consider
pregnancy."

'MY MUM ALMOST DIED IN CHILDBIRTH, now I'm terrified'

Actress Amy Barnes, 23, lives in London and has been with her partner Vik, 23,
for two and a half years

The thought of giving birth is so terrifying that I can't imagine myself ever
doing it. Anything can happen during the birth process, things can go horribly
wrong. I want a family but there are other options.

My mum nearly died when she had my little sister. She haemorrhaged five pints of
blood during the birth. I was six years old and sitting outside the delivery
suite with my grandparents. The sight of my dad when he came out has haunted me
ever since. He was white and crying, and it was very frightening. 'Your mother
is very poorly,' he said. I thought she was going to die.

During my gap year I worked in the medical records department of a hospital and
didn't go anywhere near the labour ward unless I absolutely had to. The screams
would ring in my ears for hours afterwards.

When my sister Laura, who's a single mum, had her two kids, it was important to
her that me and our sister Cathy were her birth partners. We went to antenatal
classes together, but when it came to the crunch, I couldn't even bring myself
to go into the delivery room. Luckily, Laura understood.

Vik and I see our future together, and he knows I couldn't give birth naturally.
We haven't discussed it in detail, but his attitude is: 'We'll cross that bridge
when we come to it.' He would be disappointed if we didn't have our own
children, but adopting wouldn't be a deal-breaker for him. And that's good
enough for me."

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              772 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             May 9, 2012 Wednesday
                               Hyderabad Edition

Application sales push college earnings

BYLINE: Jui Mukherjee TNN

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 607 words


Hyderabad: City colleges seem to be laughing their way to the bank this
admissions season and have their application forms to thank for the windfall
with the hike in the price of forms serving to fill their coffers.The cost of
application forms has steadily increased over the past four to five years,making
applying to two or more courses an expensive affair.Students finishing their
Intermediate or Class XII exams are encouraged to explore all options when it
comes to choosing a college and selecting a course but may have to end up
spending between Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000 on the cost of application forms.Till five
years back,the combined cost of a college application form along with the
prospectus and additional registration ranged between Rs 100 and Rs
150.But,now,the cost of a form may range between Rs 300 and Rs 550 with college
authorities blaming rising printing costs for the price escalation.At Loyola
Degree College,students seeking admission are being asked to shell out Rs 550
for the application form,college prospectus and registration fee for all
courses.Badruka College of Commerce and Arts charges Rs 350 for the
same.Institutions like Kasturba Gandhi College,St Francis College and Bhavan's
Vivekananda College are charging Rs 300 while Nizam College and Villa Marie
College are charging Rs 200 to Rs 250 per form.When TOI enquired among the
various degree colleges in the city about the prices of their admission forms
and prospectus,several officials conveniently omitted the registration fee from
the figures.It was only upon probing deeper that the total cost was
revealed.While Villa Marie College and Kasturba Gandhi College,
respectively,charge Rs 50 and Rs 60 towards registration fees,Bhavan's
Vivekananda College and Badruka College charge Rs 100 and St Francis College,Rs
150.Some officials of colleges affiliated to Osmania University have even
claimed that the amount collected trhough sale application forms goes to the
university.However,Pratap Reddy,director of Academics and the Audit Cell at
OU,denied any such practice."No such amount comes to OU.The colleges are only
allowed to charge an amount which will allow them to recover expenditure on the
admission process," he revealed.Many colleges in the city are cashing in on the
tendency of students to try their luck in more than one course by making it
compulsory to purchase a separate form for each course.Hema Yashaswini,who
recently completed her Intermediate,said: "I went to just two colleges and yet
have already spent nearly Rs 1,000 towards application forms alone as I wanted
to apply for both BCom and BBA courses." J Vani Sri,whose daughter is seeking
admission in a city college,said: "There are very few colleges in the city which
offer the convenience of applying for more than one course in the same form or
charge only half the amount for an additional form.The amount spent in simply
purchasing applications now is at least Rs 2,000." Applicants looking to explore
all possible alternatives are now considering a change in the current practice
in order to minimize costs.Dheeraj Sai Sunder,another student applying to city
colleges,said: "Students definitely want to keep open as many options as
possible.Although parents don't mind spending big amounts when it comes to
choosing the right college and the right course,I am sure they definitely feel
the pinch."Very often,as a second option,we buy the application form for a
particular college which we never get around to filling up as our focus shifts
away from that college.Maybe,from now on,we will have to be more careful about
such things as it is getting just too expensive."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              773 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             January 9, 2015 Friday

Choosing an Area of Specialization After Your Associate's Degree

LENGTH: 567  words

DATELINE: Schaumburg


American InterContinental University has issued the following news release:

You've got your associate's degree hanging in a frame on your wall.
Congratulations on your achievement! You know what jobs you can get with an
associate's degree, and now you feel ready to move forward with a bachelor's
degree. Great! But how do you go about choosing a degree specialization?

Choosing a degree specialization after an associate's degree can be difficult.
Choosing a college major is a big decision given that the classes you take will
focus on that topic, your career path will likely be guided by your choice, and
even your salary can be affected by your determination. Choosing a
specialization inside the major you choose - like marketing for a business
degree or information security for an IT degree - can be an even more
challenging decision.

Here are five things to think about before you decide where you want to focus:

What does your heart tell you? If you choose a major and a specialization not
because you are interested in the topic but just because you think it might make
you a lot of money, then you are less likely to succeed. You need to have
passion, interest and curiosity about your degree and your specialization to
succeed both in school and in the chosen career field after graduation.
    Don't let your heart make all the decisions, though. You might dream of
being a full-time novelist, but you have groceries to buy, a mortgage to pay,
and your child's dance class to pay for. That doesn't mean you should give up
the dream of writing full-time. Instead, think about all career choices that
could involve writing for a regular paycheck. You could major in business, with
a specialization in marketing, for instance. Choosing a specialization in a
field that you love can put you a rung above your competition.
    Draw on your experience. Think about the classes you took in your
associate's degree program. Did a particular topic stand out as something you
enjoyed? What about your current responsibilities and future goals at your
current job? Think about what specialization matches up well with the tasks you
prefer spending your time on and the direction you'd like your career path to
take.
    Talk to professionals in your field of interest. Don't be afraid of making
cold calls. Professionals who are passionate about their jobs and careers are
more often than not willing to take the time to talk to those new in the
industry about the rewards - and pitfalls - of the major and specialization you
are considering. If you can, visit his or her place of work to get an even
better feel for the business.
    Look to the future. Is the industry you are interested in specializing in
growing? Are there certain specializations that aren't growing at the same rate
as others? (The Bureau of Labor Statistics' Occupational Outlook Handbook is a
good resource for these questions and others.) What happens if the economy
falters? Will your specialization still make you a valuable commodity to a
business? What kinds of entry-level jobs are there in the specialization you're
considering? What are the top-level positions? Taking the time to answer these
questions can make you more assured the decision you are making about a college
specialization is the right choice.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              774 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Pueblo Chieftain (Colorado)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           November 13, 2012 Tuesday

Choosing a different, but similar, city

BYLINE: Peter Roper, The Pueblo Chieftain, Colo.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 679 words


Nov. 13--GREELEY -- On a chilly but sunny afternoon, a group of Pueblo women
gathered at a Greeley coffee shop to talk about why they attend the University
of Northern Colorado and the differences between life there and home.

It was a postcard afternoon. Leaves were starting to turn yellow and the
sidewalks were dotted with young adults walking uphill toward the pretty UNC
campus.

The four young women are South High School graduates who became friends in
Greeley. Several young Pueblo men had said they would join the interview but
didn't show. College guys.

Enedina Olvera, 21, is a junior studying elementary education. She transferred
from the University of Kansas because she missed Colorado and chose UNC because
of its long tradition of teacher education.

The school was founded in 1889 to train teachers for Colorado's public schools
and it was named Colorado State Teachers College in 1911. Perhaps its most
famous alumnus is the late novelist, James A. Michener, who immortalized Greeley
in his best-selling novel, "Centennial." The UNC library is named for him.

"One obvious difference is Greeley has more of a college-town atmosphere, which
I really like," said Olvera. That UNC is located in Greeley's older
neighborhoods of small houses along U.S. 85 and near downtown certainly helps.

UNC has 11,000 students while Colorado State University-Pueblo has 4,800.

"I know UNC is a bigger school, but the town still feels smaller," she added and
then laughed. "One thing I've discovered is that a lot of people up here don't
know much if anything about Pueblo."

"Not even where it is," agreed Sammi Weiler, 22, and a senior in the education
program. "I tell them to drive south to Colorado Springs and then keep going.
But Greeley reminds me of home because there is a lot of diversity here.

Hispanics. Africans. I like that. It's what I'm used to." Does she notice a
difference in the cities?

"I think Greeley is probably cleaner," Weiler hinted, clearly not comfortable
criticizing her hometown.

"I think they take better care of things."

"But it really smells here. All the time," said Olvera, meaning the
slaughterhouse odors from the JBS Swift meat-packing plant several miles away.

Danielle O'Dorisio, 21, and a junior, is studying speech pathology. Her father
went to UNC and she clearly likes that sense of connection to the campus, but
she said it was her career goal that brought her.

"My mother went to (Colorado State University) in Fort Collins, which I also
considered, but the program I wanted was here," she said.

One similarity to Pueblo is how many Greeley young people choose to attend UNC,
she added.

"This campus gets empty on weekends."

All the young women nodded in agreement when one said that UNC seems to be on
the "wrong side of the railroad tracks" to some locals.

"I know girls who won't go to the Walmart on this side of town," O'Dorisio said.
"They drive all the way across town to a newer one."

Greeley is greener, set amid farm country and has a different look than Pueblo's
prairie environment, they agreed. Do they get any grief from friends at home for
not choosing CSU-Pueblo?

"No," said Erica Christie, 21, and a senior in behavior management.

"But I probably wouldn't notice. I'm so focused on school."

Asked about crime and personal safety, they said Greeley felt safe -- and local
crime statistics indicate it has about half the crime of Pueblo generally,
although the number of rapes was very close at more than 40 in each city in
2011.

Sometimes they get teased about going to school in Greeley's smelly environment,
said Weiler.

But she knew several Pueblo students, a group of friends, who came to Greeley,
only to transfer back to CSU-Pueblo over a few years.

"It was like gravity pulled them back a few at a time," she said.

All four of the women said their immediate goal was to find a good job in their
field. None saw themselves moving back to Pueblo in the near future.

proper@chieftain.com

___ (c)2012 The Pueblo Chieftain (Pueblo, Colo.) Visit The Pueblo Chieftain
(Pueblo, Colo.) at www.chieftain.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121113-PB-Choosing-a-different-but-similar-city-1113-20121113

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PB


                      Copyright 2012 The Pueblo Chieftain


                              775 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                            November 26, 2006 Sunday

One small step for KYUEM, one big step for students

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 606 words


KOLEJ Yayasan UEM (KYUEM) places importance on helping students gain entry into
the university of their first choice.

Deciding on a university in a foreign country where students will spend at least
three years of their lives is important.

At KYUEM, 95 per cent or more will pursue their studies overseas upon completion
of their A levels in June every year.

They start thinking about universities and courses at least a year in advance.

While a majority of students go to top varsities in the United Kingdom and
Ireland, KYUEM also has a small number going to top-notch universities in
Australia, New Zealand and US.

Some varsities are small and have a strong corporate or brand identity; others
are large with complete facilities and offer a different experience.

Oxford and Cambridge consist of individual colleges and each has a different
feel.

A student can choose from hundreds of courses, which differ in content, style
and teaching method.

It is tempting to apply to top varsities, but you should consider practical
issues.

London, for example, is exciting but also expensive.

Most universities, however, provide accommodation for international students for
the first year

Without guidance, choosing a university overseas can be stressful.

At KYUEM, students are guided from choosing university options to completing the
application

Presentations, workshops and mock interviews are organised to get students to
start their research work, choose universities and write their personal
statement.

A team comprising counsellors, house staff, tutors and teachers counsel
students.

Professional advice (Malaysian British Educational Co-operation Services, or
MABECS) is also sought from organisations that have experience in university
applications, and placement.

Attention is given to interview techniques for those applying to read medicine
and for universities like Oxford and Cambridge, where the interview is a
compulsory part of selection.

Over seventy students applied for places in medical schools in the UK last
September.

For preparation, students make presentations and discuss in small groups medical
issues from the ethical, legal and religious perspectives.

Doctors and academics are invited to these forums. Students gain by discussing
and reading materials beyond the textbook.

Securing a place to do medicine in a British or Australian university is
challenging and requires more than good grades.

Students are encouraged to undertake work attachments during breaks and
participate in sports clubs and societies at the college.

As a result, a large proportion of KYUEM's graduates move on to its university
of choice.

This is illustrated by the college's successful Cambridge and Oxford entries.

Eight students were admitted into Oxbridge colleges in September, one more than
last year.

Since its establishment in 1998, the college has had a 90 per cent success rate
in placing its students in the top 10 British universities and the Irish
Universities Medical Consortium.

The popular universities among students are Imperial College, London School of
Economics, University College, London, King's College, University of Newcastle,
University of Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Southampton, Warwick,
Manchester, Sheffield, Nottingham, Irish Universities of Medical Consortium

The current senior batch has made its applications through the UCAS scheme.

University applications to Ireland, Australia, New Zealand and US are all in the
process.

From this year, students can choose between enrolling in an 18-month programme
in January, 24- month programme in July or 18-month also in July.

For details, call 03-64601234 or visit www.kyuem.edu.my

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hallmark of quality

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


                              776 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                            April 6, 2005 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

THERE'S NO EXCUSE FOR PAYING WOMEN LESS

BYLINE: Mary Conroy

SECTION: BUSINESS; WORKING; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 669 words


Lots of newspapers got the story wrong last week.

"Good news and hope, for black women," cried Newsday.

"White women lag in pay among college graduates," blared the Chicago Tribune.

"Census: College-educated white women earning less," USA Today screamed.

The story, in case you missed it, reported on a Census Bureau survey of workers
with a bachelor's degree. Many newspapers nationwide emphasized one small piece
of data from the survey - that white women with college degrees earn less than
Asian and African-American women with 4-year degrees.

The figures? For women with bachelor's degrees, Hispanics earned $37,600 a year;
whites earned $37,800; African-Americans earned $41,000; Asians earned $43,700.

The way this story was reported didn't surprise women. In addition, most
newspapers simply reprinted the initial story from a male Associated Press
reporter, and used their own headlines as space permitted.

Here's what the men with bachelor's degrees make: (As above, figures do not
include those with advanced or professional degrees): white, $66,390;
African-American, $45,635; Asian, $52,508; Hispanic, $49,298.

As my women friends talked about the story, they agreed that the media missed
the main message. One of them said, "The headline should read 'College-educated
men make more than women do.' "

But another looked at the data and said, "No, it should say, 'White men make
more than anybody else.' "

Neither of these friends was happy when she reinterpreted the data. One was
clearly glad her husband wasn't coming home for dinner that night.

While the Census Bureau didn't explain the disparity, the Associated Press
reporter, Genaro C. Armas, alluded to unnamed economists' and sociologists'
suggestions: First, minority women, especially African-Americans, are more
likely to hold more than one job or work more than 40 hours a week. Second,
black professional women who take time off to have a child return to the
workforce sooner than other professional women do.

But these excuses, if anything, only explain why some women college graduates
make more than other women college graduates. There is no way white men with
4-year degrees can excuse a disparity of $28,590 between them and white women
with the same education.

Taking time off for children wouldn't create that big a gap. Some experts
speculated that the income differentials reflected the career fields men and
women chose. Perhaps men were choosing business and science, while women were
choosing nursing and education.

Yet most nurses and teachers are unionized these days. Although most teachers
are female, elementary and secondary teachers have banded together in unions,
thus assuring equality in salaries, as compared to the old days when elementary
teachers (most of whom were female) negotiated contracts separately from
secondary teachers (more of whom were male). The main exception to this is at
the college level, where women faculty members lag far behind men in salaries
and promotions.

Besides, what makes businessmen worth more than teachers? We entrust our
children to teachers; in fact, teachers see more of our children during waking
hours than most parents do.

The simple fact is that men don't respect women's work. When most secretaries
were male, they made good salaries. When most public relations workers were
male, they made good salaries, too. But as soon as women flocked to those
professions, salaries dropped.

While men at the upper echelons of their companies are depressing women's
salaries, they never stop to consider it on a personal level. If their wives
were working for the same companies, would they want their wives to earn less?
After all, most men do care about their total family income.

So, guys, it's up to you. If you want your family to continue struggling, keep
giving women lower salaries than men. If you'd prefer a higher family income
because your wife is worth more than she's being paid, now's the time to speak
out, no matter what color you are.

Mary Conroy is a Madison-based free-lance writer.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Madison Newspapers, Inc.


                              777 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                     April 1, 2001 Sunday Marshall Edition

Students choosing alternatives to going to college

BYLINE: By TONYA WEGER; Tribune Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. D6

LENGTH: 971 words


MISHAWAKA -- About half of Mishawaka High School graduates will not further
their education at a university or college.

In 1999, 42 percent of MHS graduates said they would not pursue higher education
upon conclusion of their senior year, according to data compiled from the
Indiana Department of Education and being used in the current St. Joseph County
Career and Vocational Center Feasibility Study.

While the number of MHS students choosing no higher education went down to 27
percent in 2000, less than half -- 42 percent -- of the students surveyed said
they planned to enroll in a four-year college.

The figures were considerably different at other area schools.

For instance, at Washington High School, about 31 percent of the 1999 graduates
said they would not pursue higher education.

By comparison, Clay High School had the lowest percentage -- 12 percent -- of
students who believed they would not go on to college or other educational
options. Penn High School reported 17 percent in that category.

Plans for after graduation

 Mishawaka High School administrators and academic advisers insist that even if
their students are not choosing college, they aren't leaving the school without
a plan.

In fact, many are electing to go straight to work after high school.

"I think there's a better economy and a good job market," the school's counselor
director, Donald Cronk, said. "A lot of these high school seniors are seeing
that they can get good training right out of school and maybe even get their
education paid for."

But the emphasis for the high school -- as well as the school system -- is
post-secondary education.

A high school diploma alone isn't the answer, said John Ferrettie, executive
director of curricular and instructional programs.

"And we are stressing the need for some sort of specialty," he said. "With this
economy and work force, there are jobs out there for those who have training."

There are several options out there, said Cronk, who encourages students to take
advantage of the high school's many technical and vocational courses.

Student interest in vocational jobs is showing up in the surveys too. In 1999, 6
percent of the MHS students surveyed said they would pursue vocational/technical
career options. In 2000, the number rose to 16 percent.

Also, in 2000, 6 percent said they planned to enlist in the military.

"I feel myself really pulling away from the four-year college track," Cronk
said. "There are a lot of people with bachelor's degrees out there waiting
tables."

Costly higher education

 MHS Principal Joe Trimboli realizes there are factors contributing to the
number of students saying they won't be going on to a two-year or four-year
college -- many of which are financial.

"It's always a concern when you hear your numbers could be better," Trimboli
said.

Taking some time off to work, he said, is often the answer for Mishawaka
students.

"It isn't that they don't have the intellect; they don't have the means,"
Trimboli said.

"We have 35 percent of our students receiving free or reduced lunches," he
explained. "There are a lot of kids out there that need monetary help."

Slight corrections

 MHS administrators also have found discrepancies with the post-graduation
survey statistics, which the school itself had reported to the Indiana
Department of Education.

"The numbers are wrong," Cronk said.

Still, the variance is slight.

"The way it plays out, we're talking about what would be only about a 5 percent
difference," he said.

In 1999, Cronk said, 37 percent of Mishawaka's students said they were not
seeking a higher education. (The figure was 42 percent in the report to the
state.)

"That's still high," Cronk said, referring to the 37 percent figure. "But we had
a total of 16 percent (in 1999) say they were going to trade or business
schools.

"And that's what the roots of this town are," he said.

The variance is not unusual, according to the Indiana Department of Education.

"It's important to remember that these numbers are self-reported by the students
and can change over the summer," said Mary Tiede Wilhelmus, spokeswoman for the
education department.

Guidance offices are responsible for turning in these statistics, based on what
high school seniors say they plan to do following graduation.

The errors, Cronk believes, occurred because the percentages were based on
feedback from the entire class, while not every graduating senior provided the
guidance office with their intentions.

"There are a lot of people here -- mostly secretaries -- turning in the
numbers," he explained. "We have non-statisticians turning in our statistics."

Cronk said he intends to fax the Department of Education the correct totals.

"There's not a lot of difference, but I'm going to have them corrected," he
said.

More numbers clashing

 And Mishawaka High School is caught up in another number mix-up.

According to the Indiana Department of Education, only 72 percent of MHS seniors
graduated in 2000.

Administrators dispute those numbers, too.

"We had 90 students who completed their studies through night school,
alternative school or the system's GED program that were not included in the
2000 graduation rate," Ferrettie said.

Instead, Ferrettie said, the 90 students were marked as dropouts when they
should have been included as graduates.

Mishawaka High School reported in 1999 that 94 percent of its students
graduated. Although Ferrettie was unable to supply a revised percentage of 2000
graduates, he expects the graduation rate to be closer to that of the previous
year.

"Our numbers were much higher in our annual report for that year," he said.
"We're in the process of having what we submitted to the state revised."

Staff writer Tonya Weger:

tweger@sbtinfo.com

(219) 235-6556


LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2001 South Bend Tribune Corporation


                              778 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Leader Messenger (Australia)

                           February 4, 2009 Wednesday
                               1 - FIRST Edition

Choosing to care for kids

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 250 words


WITH child care colleges opening up on every corner, now more than ever it is
time to look closely at what is being offered by colleges delivering training in
children's services.

When choosing your place to study, consider a few aspects, including:

* Is the college national accredited and courses approved in all states?

* Can you study at a pace convenient to you?

* Do the trainers have appropriate qualification and experience?

* Are payment plans available to suit your needs?

Australian Childcare Career Options (ACCCO) has been delivering training to
students all over Australia for 14 years.

It conducts face-to-face or external study options and students have their own
personal trainer to assess their work.

It also offers its students fast-tracking, Certificate III in children's
services, which takes 20 weeks and the diploma of children's services can be
obtained in another 23 weeks.

This compares favourably with the two years it takes at some other institutions.

At the end of 2007 ACCCO opened the Adelaide office and started its first class
with Tina Gladigau.

``We have students who are working in the field who are studying externally with
monthly support visits," she says. Not only has the class provided the students
with the relevant theory work but also a lot of practical and hands on
experiences.

``The students are developing their own resource files to use at the centres",
says Tina.

LMApplications can be made to Tina Gladigau on 0400 226 637 or visit www.accco

.com.au for information.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MLD


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              779 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Southern-Times Messenger (Australia)

                           February 4, 2009 Wednesday
                               1 - FIRST Edition

Choosing to care for kids

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 250 words


WITH child care colleges opening up on every corner, now more than ever it is
time to look closely at what is being offered by colleges delivering training in
children's services.

When choosing your place to study, consider a few aspects, including:

* Is the college national accredited and courses approved in all states?

* Can you study at a pace convenient to you?

* Do the trainers have appropriate qualification and experience?

* Are payment plans available to suit your needs?

Australian Childcare Career Options (ACCCO) has been delivering training to
students all over Australia for 14 years.

It conducts face-to-face or external study options and students have their own
personal trainer to assess their work.

It also offers its students fast-tracking, Certificate III in children's
services, which takes 20 weeks and the diploma of children's services can be
obtained in another 23 weeks.

This compares favourably with the two years it takes at some other institutions.

At the end of 2007 ACCCO opened the Adelaide office and started its first class
with Tina Gladigau.

``We have students who are working in the field who are studying externally with
monthly support visits," she says. Not only has the class provided the students
with the relevant theory work but also a lot of practical and hands on
experiences.

``The students are developing their own resource files to use at the centres",
says Tina.

stMApplications can be made to Tina Gladigau on 0400 226 637 or visit
www.accco.com.au for information.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MST


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              780 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Mail Tribune (Medford, Oregon)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 11, 2012 Wednesday

Wyden bill would set up U.S. higher education database

BYLINE: Teresa Ristow, Mail Tribune, Medford, Ore.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 661 words


April 11--U.S. Sen. Ron Wyden told students at South Medford High School Tuesday
they should do their homework before choosing which college to attend.

"This is the biggest investment you're going to make in your future other than
buying a house," said Wyden, D-Ore., who visited the campus to talk with
students about The Student Right to Know Before You Go Act, introduced in
Congress in February.

Wyden is proposing the legislation, which would require federally funded
colleges and universities to submit data to a national database detailing
student debt, graduation likelihood and other factors for their students.

The information would help students make more informed decisions when choosing a
field of study and a college to attend.

"There is no Carfax for college education," said Wyden. "There is no simple
place to go."

Wyden said much of the information that would be included in his proposed
database already is available in numerous locations, but an online site would
bring everything together and make things easier for students.

"The data is sort of strewn all over the countryside," said Wyden. "I want you
to have the information that ought to be easily available."

The database would include the potential salaries students would make based on
their major and which school they attend, and students could compare the results
to the debt they might accrue while pursuing their degree. A salary estimate
based on a student's education could be generated though public labor and wage
records, Wyden said.

Wyden said he expects the legislation to pass this session, or early next year.
The bill has bipartisan support, with Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-Calif., introducing
the measure in the House.

Because federally funded schools already are required to submit much of the data
to the government, Wyden says, no additional burden would be put on taxpayers or
the government to make the database a reality.

During an open forum Tuesday, one South Medford student asked Wyden whether his
legislation would help with the high cost of attending college.

Wyden said that once the information in the database becomes readily available
to students, they can make informed decisions and seek the education with the
most value.

"I think this will be a force for holding costs down," said Wyden, who said the
database could create a marketplace atmosphere for students selecting a school
and field of study.

"It's the ABCs of financing as it relates to a particular school," said Wyden.

Wyden told the students at South Medford that student loan debt in the United
States has reached almost $1 trillion dollars, far surpassing the nation's
credit card debt.

"We have students and families up to their eyeballs in debt," said Wyden. "The
amount of student debt continues to climb through the stratosphere."

Some students at South were impressed with Wyden's idea, though others saw
shortcomings.

"I think it's a good idea," said Taylor Patti, a South Medford senior, "but I
think it runs the risk of characterizing an education's value as only the amount
of money you put into it."

Patti, 18, plans to attend Chapman University in Orange, Calif., next year, and
while her decision is already made, she said a database like the one Wyden is
proposing could have helped earlier in the process.

"It would have had an impact, but at this point it wouldn't sway me," said
Patti, who plans to pursue a double major in biology and economics.

Senior Jordan Gilman said he believed a database would have been useful while he
was deciding where to attend school.

"It's hard enough to get information about schools," said Gilman, who plans to
attend Oregon State University in the fall and major in electrical engineering.
"I think it's a great idea."

Gilman, 17, said the database could still be helpful for him when choosing a
graduate school later on.

___ (c)2012 the Mail Tribune (Medford, Ore.) Visit the Mail Tribune (Medford,
Ore.) at www.mailtribune.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20120411-ME-Wyden-bill-would-set-up-U-S-higher-education-database-0411-20120411

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ME


                          Copyright 2012 Mail Tribune


                              781 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                            August 17, 2003, Sunday

Explore host of learning opportunities in UK

SECTION: Higher education; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 585 words


ARE you confused with the myriad of course options and study destinations?
Wondering how best to make your decision about what to study and where to
go?

Unsure about the factors you should be looking at - should it be cost,
choice of courses available, quality of student life, healthcare or all of
the above? You should take into consideration that having a degree in one
of the more traditional fields of study may not be enough to make you
stand out when it comes to getting a job.

You also need to ensure the quality of your qualification - which will
help you stand out in a crowded job market.

Many employers look at the reputation, standing and track-record of your
institution of choice and the country in which you study.

So if you want excellent career prospects and a good salary once you
graduate, then a degree from the UK is a good start; due to the prestige
and premium that a UK education has.

A major advantage of choosing to study in the UK is that you will be
surrounded by native speakers of the international language of business
and commerce.

The UK is also at the forefront of scientific and creative innovation,
so you could be learning alongside some of the world's top intellects
which provides an excellent environment for study.

In the UK you will be trained to think for yourself through lectures in
large groups followed by seminars and tutorials all led by a lecturer or
professor - during all of these students are expected to contribute
extensively.

You will have a course tutor who will advise individually on your course
work and a personal tutor will give further advice and support.

You will be expected to read extensively around your chosen field and to
conduct research which will involve analysing all the relevant material.

Once you have made up your mind about studying in the UK, the
possibilities of where and how you study are endless.

You can choose from more than 230,000 courses in England, Wales,
Scotland or Northern Ireland and you can be assured of their quality.

When choosing a degree course, some of the things to consider are
whether it is the right subject for you, whether it is recognised by
employers in Malaysia, what options are offered with the subject, and what
are the teaching and assessment methods.

The types of degree courses available include Honours degrees and
Sandwich courses which include up to one year of invaluable, integrated
work experience.

When choosing where to get your degree from, you will need to consider
the facilities offered by the institution of higher learning; whether it
is in the city or countryside, accommodation, and whether you can afford
the fees.

A university is not the only place you can obtain a degree. You can also
go to a higher education college or a college of further education.

The degrees will be of the same standard, as they are externally
validated.

Colleges of higher and further education offer degree courses validated
by universities, as they do not usually have their own degree awarding
powers. This means that you have a huge choice of institutions, locations,
subjects, costs and learning environments to choose from.

You could visit the Education UK 2003 August Exhibition to be held at
the Shangri-La Hotel in Penang on Aug 20 and PWTC in Kuala Lumpur on Aug
23-24.

For further information, visit www.educationuk.org.my or contact
Francine Dawson at 03-2723 7965 or e-mail
francine.dawson@britishcouncil.org.my


LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Creative innovation: Malaysian research student Hau Lai examines a
newmotor made at the University of Southampton for use on
remotely-operatedunderwater vehicles.

            Copyright 2003 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


                              782 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                             Sowetan (South Africa)

                             May 21, 2015 Thursday

Maimane sees ' wind of change'

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 355 words


Maimane sees 'wind of change'
 "THERE is a wind of change sweeping across the country. And it has been felt
right here  on this campus  in the beautiful Eastern Cape " Democratic Alliance
leader Mmusi Maimane told Fort Hare University students yesterday.


 He was visiting the campus that saw his party's student wing  Daso  win the
recent students representative council (SRC) polls in an upset for the ruling
ANC-aligned incumbents.
 "When Daso swept to victory in the SRC elections here three weeks ago  the
newspaper headlines made it sound like this was unexpected " Maimane said.
 "But in reality  many saw this coming. We in the DA certainly saw it coming.
 "And make no mistake  the ANC saw this coming too. If they weren't really
nervous about the possibility of defeat  they would never have sent their big
guns to come and campaign here.
 "When is the last time you saw ANC heavyweights like Cyril Ramaphosa  Malusi
Gigaba and Fikile Mbalula deployed to a university campus to campaign for SRC
elections? It has never happened.
 "The ANC saw the blue wave coming. And they were scared."
 Maimane's speech marked the launch of his Freedom  Fairness & Opportunity Tour
which will involve town halls  street meetings and house meetings "to start a
conversation about the DA's new values charter that we adopted at our federal
congress two weeks ago  and that now serves as the preamble to the party's
constitution".
 He went on to explain the name of the tour  saying the three words are the core
values "that guide us in all we do as we work together with you to build a
better tomorrow for all South Africans".
  "Young South Africans are choosing freedom that they can use.
 "They are choosing fairness instead of a system of economic insiders and
outsiders.
 "They are choosing opportunity instead of hopelessness and unemployment."
 The tour will culminate with the launch of the DA's vision for South Africa on
June 13.

 Maimane said Fort Hare University was a "symbolic" choice to launch this tour
exclaiming that it "is good to be here on the campus of (Nelson) Mandela
(Oliver) Tambo and (Robert) Sobukwe". - RDM News Wire

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Sowetan


                    Copyright 2015 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              783 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                             Sowetan (South Africa)

                             May 21, 2015 Thursday

Maimane sees ' wind of change'

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 355 words


Maimane sees 'wind of change'
 "THERE is a wind of change sweeping across the country. And it has been felt
right here  on this campus  in the beautiful Eastern Cape " Democratic Alliance
leader Mmusi Maimane told Fort Hare University students yesterday.


 He was visiting the campus that saw his party's student wing  Daso  win the
recent students representative council (SRC) polls in an upset for the ruling
ANC-aligned incumbents.
 "When Daso swept to victory in the SRC elections here three weeks ago  the
newspaper headlines made it sound like this was unexpected " Maimane said.
 "But in reality  many saw this coming. We in the DA certainly saw it coming.
 "And make no mistake  the ANC saw this coming too. If they weren't really
nervous about the possibility of defeat  they would never have sent their big
guns to come and campaign here.
 "When is the last time you saw ANC heavyweights like Cyril Ramaphosa  Malusi
Gigaba and Fikile Mbalula deployed to a university campus to campaign for SRC
elections? It has never happened.
 "The ANC saw the blue wave coming. And they were scared."
 Maimane's speech marked the launch of his Freedom  Fairness & Opportunity Tour
which will involve town halls  street meetings and house meetings "to start a
conversation about the DA's new values charter that we adopted at our federal
congress two weeks ago  and that now serves as the preamble to the party's
constitution".
 He went on to explain the name of the tour  saying the three words are the core
values "that guide us in all we do as we work together with you to build a
better tomorrow for all South Africans".
  "Young South Africans are choosing freedom that they can use.
 "They are choosing fairness instead of a system of economic insiders and
outsiders.
 "They are choosing opportunity instead of hopelessness and unemployment."
 The tour will culminate with the launch of the DA's vision for South Africa on
June 13.

 Maimane said Fort Hare University was a "symbolic" choice to launch this tour
exclaiming that it "is good to be here on the campus of (Nelson) Mandela
(Oliver) Tambo and (Robert) Sobukwe". - RDM News Wire

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Sowetan


                    Copyright 2015 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              784 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                             June 10, 2017 Saturday

Expanding Cultural Horizons

LENGTH: 438 words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, June 10 -- Although I loved visiting the United States with my family,
choosing to go there to finish my undergraduate degree was a decision I made
after a few months of toilsome thinking. Being one of the youngest members of an
extended family, growing up was a blessing. I was pampered a lot and did not
know what independence felt like. However, I had a preconceived idea that
college would not be the same. Keeping this in mind, I headed to Earlham
College, Richmond, Indiana in 2016.

It was overwhelming to see thousands of new faces from all around the world.
Fortunately, due to the exposure I received in school and home, I was able to
make conversation with ease. However, it required a lot of patience for me to
adapt to the culturally diverse environment at Earlham, which has a student-body
consisting of students from 77 countries. Within a year, I learned about many
people, their respective countries, and their cultural backgrounds. Withal, I
expanded my knowledge regarding current affairs by learning about topics such as
the Israel-Palestine conflict, the Black Lives Matter movement and the Free
Tibet movement.

Moreover, Earlham College is located where most liberal arts colleges are
located in the United States-a small town. As there aren't a lot of things to do
in Richmond, my freshman year was mostly spent on campus with a few trips around
the country. Regardless of how monotonous it would get in Richmond, I developed
a liking towards the city because there were fewer distractions compared to big
cities; which gave the student body an opportunity to grow closer to each other.

Before coming to Earlham, the idea of studying abroad was unsettling. I was
anxious about whether I would receive an education that would fit my needs,
whether I would be able to make new friends in a surrounding alien to me, and
whether I would be able to handle independence.

With time, however, I realized that I had made a wise decision by choosing to
study in the United States. Despite some bumps, studying in a country abroad has
succored me in ways I would have never imagined. I have learned to have an
open-mind and appreciate the different cultures our world constitutes of. I have
learned to prioritize my goals but most importantly; I have grown to like
independence as I now strongly believe that independence is a key element that
leads to success.

The writer is a student at Earlham College, Richmond.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Republica. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2017 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              785 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            June 25, 2014 Wednesday

Washington: Important Insights on College Choice and the Burden of Student-Loan
Debt

LENGTH: 639  words

DATELINE: Washington


Center for American Progress has issued the following news release:

Completing higher education after high school continues to be the most reliable
way for Americans to expand their economic opportunity. Students gain skills
that not only let them achieve a secure economic future, but also allow them to
experience fulfilling professional opportunities. For many students and
families, this means taking on debt to pay for a degree at a college,
university, or technical training center.

During the 2011-12 school year, higher-education institutions collected $154
billion in tuition and fees; families and students financed these costs with
$106 billion in loans from federal student-aid programs. Given this level of
borrowing, it is important that the United States reform its financial aid
system so that students can make the best educational choices to ensure their
financial success. The country must also provide loan repayment options that
allow people to manage the debt they take on in order to get their degrees.

Late last year, the Center for American Progress highlighted the importance of
understanding the role that student debt plays in the college selection process.
In particular, the CAP column discussed the fact that many people choose a
college without a clear sense of how student-loan debt will affect their lives
after they leave school.

The people most suited to provide insight into a discussion about the impact of
student-loan debt are those who are working hard to pay off student loans.
Therefore, this analysis describes results from a survey of the indebted
individuals that CAP first wrote about in December 2013. This brief outlines the
perspectives of student borrowers in the ongoing conversation about student debt
and college success and presents some important policies that can help minimize
student-loan borrowing and make repayment more affordable.
Survey of borrower perspectives on student-loan debt and college choice

As members of the Higher Ed, Not Debt campaign, the Center for American Progress
and its youth-advocacy team, Generation Progress, conducted a survey of former
students with loans and asked them questions about whether they thought about
debt when choosing a college. The survey asked these students how likely they
would be now, after experiencing loan repayment, to consider debt important to
their college choice. A total of 27,686 former students answered the four survey
questions examined for this analysis. By its design and definition, it included
the perspectives of people who are concerned about student-loan debt; students
who did not borrow to finance their education are less likely to respond to a
survey that covers these topics. The survey sought information about how
borrowers evaluated the impact of debt after leaving the postsecondary education
system in order to see if it is possible to better direct the choices of
incoming students so they can minimize their student-loan debt.

This issue brief examines the survey results across four key topics: level of
education, the amount of debt owed, the factors considered upon college
enrollment, and the factors most important after leaving school and entering
loan repayment. It organizes this information based on the amount of debt
students had when they left school and the level of degree they attained. The
brief also compares this information to the respondents' answers about their top
factors for choosing a school at the time of enrollment versus their top factors
now. In particular, it examines if borrowers included net price as one of their
top five factors for selecting a college at either point. Net price is defined
as the amount paid for tuition and fees after discounting scholarships and
grants that do not need to be repaid.

For more information please visit: http://americanprogress.org

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              786 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                              May 11, 2010 Tuesday

Where to go from here

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 791 words


This time of year is a time for graduations - from high schools, community
colleges and universities. As Orrin Hatch said, "There is a good reason they
call these ceremonies 'commencement exercises.' Graduation is not the end; it's
the beginning."

Speeches at graduation ceremonies are full of encouraging words to graduates who
will be embarking on either new experiences in higher education or going into
the work world. No matter which route is chosen, changes are inevitable, and
they are big. The key to handling these changes is planning.

Dr. Suess says it best in "Oh, the Places You'll Go." "You have brains in your
head. You have feet in your shoes. You can steer yourself in any direction you
choose. You're on your own. And you know what you know. You are the guy who'll
decide where to go."

Deciding whether to go to college can be a big decision. Many employers require
a college degree today in order to even be considered for employment. The
competition for first-rate jobs is higher than ever before in the current global
marketplace. Research shows that a college degree can lead to a better salary.

College is an excellent time for students to mature, to become independent, to
develop communication skills and other skills necessary on the job, to learn
about the variety of possibilities for careers, to develop higher-level thinking
and reasoning skills and to meet people from different walks of life.

Once a student decides to go on for higher education, the next decision will be
choosing a college or university. This choice depends on finances, the major
field of study, opportunities for internships and scholarships, the school's
reputation, living accommodations, transportation, location, etc. There is a
great deal of information available on the Internet from potential schools.

When students move from high school to college, there are big changes in store.
The biggest change is a growth in independence. Suddenly students have control
over their own schedule and have to make a multitude of choices. This new
independence can be a wonderful experience if they are ready for it. If not,
they can wind up wasting time and never really accomplishing anything.

In college, each day the students decide what to do. There is no one watching
over them to make sure they complete the necessary tasks. In high school, many
of these decisions were made by teachers and parents. They have to become expert
time managers and organizers virtually overnight.

Now more than ever, it is important for students to set goals for the future.
Where do they want to be in five years, 10 years and 20 years from now? Then
they can map out the small steps necessary to reach those goals.

Another important strategy for college students is to have a daily planner and
to use it. Every activity should be written down on a schedule, including
deadlines for assignments, test dates, doctor's appointments, and even time for
sleep, relaxation and entertainment. When something comes up that is not on the
schedule, students have to decide if it is something that will help them
accomplish their goals. If not, it will become easier to say no.

An important step for those heading to college is to see their academic adviser
early, even if they have not chosen a major area of study. Advisers are the ones
to help them choose the right courses to complete a degree and get into the
career of their dreams.

The best advice to students when choosing a career is to find what they love to
do. In addition, they should look into where jobs will be in the future. In the
book "200 Best Jobs for College Graduates" by Michael Farr and Laurence Shatkin,
the authors provide a large amount of information on current careers, including
starting salaries, job descriptions and predictions of the number of openings in
the future.

Recently, U.S. News examined the Labor Department's job growth projections for
2008 to 2018. It looked at jobs that will have an above-average growth rate, and
above-average median salaries. The complete list of high potential jobs can be
found at
www.usnews.com/money/careers/articles/2009/12/28/the-50-best-careers-of-2010.htm
l.

For those heading into the job market, experts suggest that students begin
looking for a job right away since it may take longer than expected to find a
job.

In "Oh, the Places You'll Go," Dr. Suess begins with, "Congratulations! Today is
your day. You're off to Great Places! You're off and away!" Whether going for
further education or into the world of work, there are exciting opportunities
and changes in store for students today.

(Pam Krueger, M.Ed., is a freelance writer, academic language therapist and
owner of Every 1 Reading tutoring in Bismarck. She can be reached at
pam@every1reading.com.)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2010 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                              787 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                       April 1, 2001 Sunday Metro Edition

Mishawaka students choosing alternatives to attending college

BYLINE: By TONYA WEGER; Tribune Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 968 words


MISHAWAKA -- About half of Mishawaka High School graduates will not further
their education at a university or college.

In 1999, 42 percent of MHS graduates said they would not pursue higher education
upon conclusion of their senior year, according to data compiled from the
Indiana Department of Education and being used in the current St. Joseph County
Career and Vocational Center Feasibility Study.

While the number of MHS students choosing no higher education went down to 27
percent in 2000, fewer than half -- 42 percent -- of the students surveyed said
they planned to enroll in a four-year college.

The figures were considerably different at other area schools.

For instance, at Washington High School, about 31 percent of the 1999 graduates
said they would not pursue higher education.

By comparison, Clay High School had the lowest percentage -- 12 percent -- of
students who believed they would not go on to college or other educational
options. Penn High School reported 17 percent in that category.

Plans for after graduation

 Mishawaka High School administrators and academic advisers assure that even if
their students are not choosing college, they aren't leaving the school without
a plan.

In fact, many are electing to go straight to work after high school.

"I think there's a better economy and a good job market," the school's counselor
director, Donald Cronk, said. "A lot of these high school seniors are seeing
that they can get good training right out of school and maybe even get their
education paid for."

But the emphasis for the high school -- as well as the school system -- is
post-secondary education.

A high school diploma alone isn't the answer, said John Ferrettie, executive
director of curricular and instructional programs.

"And we are stressing the need for some sort of specialty," he said. "With this
economy and work force, there are jobs out there for those who have training."

There are several options out there, said Cronk, who encourages students to
partake in the high school's many technical and vocational courses.

Students' interests in vocational jobs are showing up in the surveys too. In
1999, 6 percent of the MHS students surveyed said they would pursue
vocational/technical career options. In 2000, the number rose to 16 percent.

Also, in 2000, 6 percent said they planned to enlist in the military.

"I feel myself really pulling away from the four-year college track," Cronk
said. "There are a lot of people with bachelor's degrees out there waiting
tables."

Costly higher education

 MHS Principal Joe Trimboli realizes there are factors contributing to amount of
students saying they won't be going on to a two-year or four-year college --
many of which are financial.

"It's always a concern when you hear your numbers could be better," Trimboli
said.

Taking some time off to work, he said, is often the answer for Mishawaka
students.

"It isn't that they don't have the intellect; they don't have the means,"
Trimboli said.

"We have 35 percent of our students receiving free or reduced lunches," he
explained. "There are a lot of kids out there that need monetary help."

Slight corrections

 MHS administrators also have found discrepancies with the post-graduation
survey statistics, which the school itself had reported to the Indiana
Department of Education.

"The numbers are wrong," said Cronk.

Still, the variance is slight.

"The way it plays out, we're talking about what would be only about a 5 percent
difference," he said.

In 1999, Cronk said, 37 percent of Mishawaka's students said they were not
seeking a higher education. (The figure was 42 percent in the report to the
state.)

"That's still high," Cronk said, referring to the 37 percent figure. "But we had
a total of 16 percent (in 1999) say they were going to trade or business
schools.

"And that's what the roots of this town are."

The variance is not unusual, according to the Indiana Department of Education.

"It's important to remember that these numbers are self-reported by the students
and can change over the summer," said Mary Tiede Wilhelmus, spokeswoman for the
education department.

Guidance offices are responsible for turning in these statistics, based on what
high school seniors say they plan to do following graduation.

The errors, Cronk believes, occurred because the percentages were based on
feedback from the entire class, while not every graduating senior provided the
guidance office with their intentions.

"There are a lot of people here -- mostly secretaries -- turning in the
numbers," he explained. "We have non-statisticians turning in our statistics."

Cronk said he intends to fax the Department of Education the correct totals.

"There's not a lot of difference, but I'm going to have them corrected," he
said.

More numbers clashing

 And Mishawaka High School is caught up in another number debacle.

According to Indiana Department of Education, only 72 percent of MHS seniors
graduated in 2000.

Administrators dispute those numbers too.

"We had 90 students who completed their studies through night school,
alternative school or the system's GED program that were not included in the
2000 graduation rate," Ferrettie said.

Instead, Ferrettie said, the 90 students were marked as dropouts when they
should have been included as graduates.

Mishawaka High School reported in 1999 that it graduated 94 percent of its
students. Although Ferrettie was unable to supply a revised percentage of 2000
graduates, he expects the graduation rate to be closer to that of the previous
year.

"Our numbers were much higher in our annual report for that year," he said.
"We're in the process of having what we submitted to the state revised."

Staff writer Tonya Weger:

tweger@sbtinfo.com

(219) 235-6556


LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ; Mike Gieracz, a student at Mishawaka High School, moves some unused
insulation into an equipment trailer outside of a house he is helping to build.
  Tribune Photo/Brian Pierro

                 Copyright 2001 South Bend Tribune Corporation


                              788 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            March 12, 2005, Saturday

SCHOOLS SHAKER HANS ACROSS THE SEA;
 NUT FURY AS HEADS DEMAND SELECTION

BYLINE: TONY COLLINS CONTROVERSIAL: Cockshut Hill College and headmaster Richard
Sloan, who wants to select one-tenth of his pupils; CHANGES WANTED: Perry
Beeches School and head Ingrid Gallagher

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 489 words


TWO Birmingham sec-ondary schools are threatening a major shake-up of pupil
movement across the city by launching controversial selection tests. Perry
Beeches, in Great Barr, and Cockshut Hill, in Yardley, want to take advantage of
their specialist school status, which allows them to choose ten per cent of
pupils based on their aptitude.

But the move was condemned today by the country's biggest teaching union, which
fears it could set a dangerous precedentBill Anderson, spokesman for the city's
National Union of Teachers branch, called on Perry Beeches and Cockshut Hill to
think again.

'It's back to the old days of opting out and means the school will be choosing
the children, not the children choosing the school.

'This is a very worrying trend for the city, but the fundamental issue is, how
can anyone at the age of 11 have an aptitude for anything?'

Birmingham City Council's cabinet meets on Monday to discuss the selection bid.

Sixty-one of Birmingham's 77 comprehensive secondary schools nowhave special
school status, which attracts £100,000 plus £129 per pupil for four years from
the Government. Only Ninestiles Technology College, in Acocks Green, has
introduced selection of ten per cent of its pupils.

Cockshut Hill became a technology college in 1999, and Perry Beeches in 2004. A
report to the cabinet said both schools now wished to introduce ten per cent
selection by aptitude in technology.

'This would mean fewer places being available to children on the basis of
distance from home to school, so making it more difficult for local children to
be admittedFailure to meet their requests could see them 'opt out' of direct
control and seek foundation status, councillors were warned.

The head of Perry Beeches school, Ingrid Gallagher, said: 'It's a lot more
difficult to retain our emphasis on technology if you don't have a certain
amount of students with an aptitude in that subject'It helps us to retain our
technology targets and the aims of the school because, at the end of the day,
our students will be measured on technology when they leave in four years'
time.' The head of Cockshut Hill, Richard Sloan, declined to comment until after
Monday's meetingPOLICE in the Midlands will be stretching the long arm of the
law to welcome colleagues from the Netherlands on a fact-finding mission.

Chief Constable Leon Kuijs and Chief Supt Hans Van Berkel, of Holland's Politie
Brabant Zuid-Oostforce, were visiting Bromsgrove and Kidderminster police
stations.

Chief Supt Mark Howard, of West Mercia Police, said the visit was due to the
close links forged by the two forces over the last decade.

He said the Dutch divisionhad plans to reorganise their force from 18 units to
seven and the two officers were on a mission to see how successfully the North
Worcestershire Division had emerged in April 2003 from combining Kidderminster,
Redditch and Bromsgrove

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


This document could not be formatted for delivery. If your delivery request
included other documents, they completed successfully.

                              790 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             June 21, 2014 Saturday

Kentucky: Choosing the Right College

LENGTH: 59  words

DATELINE: Frankfort


Louisville Free Public Library, The State of Kentucky has issued the following
news release:

Choosing the Right College
Monday, June 23, 2014 - 04:00 PM - 05:00 PM

Learn about what to look for when deciding what college or university to go to.
Location:
Shawnee
3912 W. Broadway
Louisville, KY USA 40211

For further information please visit: http://www.lfpl.org/

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              791 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Charleston Daily Mail (West Virginia)

                          December 17, 2009, Thursday

Books make excellent Christmas gifts;
Herewith, some personal selections

BYLINE: Thomas Sowell

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P4A

LENGTH: 740 words


ONE way to reduce the wear and tear of Christmas shopping is to give books as
presents. Books can be matched to the person who receives them without having to
know that person's measurements.

-Dick Morris' new book - "Catastrophe"- is an education in itself, on politics,
on economics and on foreign policy. It is a strong antidote to the pious
rhetoric and spin that come out of Washington and the media.

Partly this is because Dick Morris was once a Beltway insider - an adviser to
President Bill Clinton - who knows first-hand the ugly realities behind the
pretty words that politicians use and that much of the media repeat.

Morris' argument in "Catastrophe" - whose title tells us where he sees us headed
- is backed up by numerous hard facts and supported by an understanding of
history and economics.

Most of all, it is supported by an understanding of politics as it is, rather
than the way it is depicted by politicians and the media.

Morris can also cut through a blizzard of political spin with a few plain words.
In describing Barack Obama's economic policies, Morris says simply: "Curing the
recession was not his end; it was his means to the end. The end was bigger
government."

Obama's actions often make no sense if you believe Obama's words, but they do
make sense if you follow Dick Morris' analysis.

-A revised edition of Angelo Codevilla's classic book, "The Character of
Nations," has been published this year, and it, too, is an education in itself.

"The Character of Nations" is less focused on immediate domestic political
issues, though it does analyze the contrasting responses of the intelligentsia
to Sarah Palin and Barack Obama, and more on the underlying cultural
developments that affect how nations work - or don't work.

The very title of Codevilla's book is a challenge to the prevailing ideology
that denies or downplays underlying differences among individuals, groups and
nations.

There are many examples of these differences. For example, Professor Codevilla
says: "While it is unimaginable to do business in China without paying bribes,
to offer one in Japan is the greatest faux pas."

He sees the things that are valued differently in different cultures as the key
to everything from economic progress to personal freedom.

But these values are not set in stone, which means countries that currently
benefit from a given set of values can lose those benefits when those values get
lost.

Codevilla says: "The reason why inhabitants of the First World should keep the
Third world in mind is that habits prevalent in the countries that became known
as the Third World are a set of human possibilities that any people anywhere can
adopt at any time. As Argentina showed in the twentieth Century, falling from
the First World to the Third can be easy and quick."

-Another revised and very valuable book is "Choosing the Right College,"
published by the Intercollegiate Studies Institute.

This latest edition is once again by far the best college guide in America. Like
many of us, it has put on weight over the years and is now 1,084 pages long, but
its weight is all muscle.

First of all, "Choosing the Right College" asks the right question: What is the
right college for you, as opposed to what is the "best" college by some formula
for ranking colleges and universities?

In addition to a very thorough examination of the academic realities at these
institutions, it goes into the social atmosphere, which can make or break the
whole college experience in terms of what is right for a particular student.

College is, after all, not just a school but a home, for four long years -
usually for people who are living away from home for the first time in their
lives.

Being in the wrong place, in terms of neighbors and atmosphere, can ruin the
academic advantages of even the best institution. This book helps match
particular students with particular places, which is what is crucial.

-My own books published this year include "The Housing Boom and Bust," which
made the New York Times best-seller list.

Another book of mine this year was the revised and enlarged edition of "Applied
Economics," which has a long chapter on the economics of medical care, including
the experience of other countries that have gone down the road to government
control of medicine.

Their experience should be a warning to us all.

Sowell is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University in
California. His Web site is www.tsowell.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Charleston Newspapers

                              792 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Geelong Advertiser (Australia)

                          December 19, 2012 Wednesday
                           1 - First Edition Edition

Time to follow your heart VCE 40+ SCORES recognition of excellence and
commitment

BYLINE: MIRANDA LUBY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 436 words


FINISHING the VCE and making decisions about the next stage of life can be an
intimidating process for school leavers.

There are non-stop choices to make about what uni to go to, what course to do,
living arrangements, gap years and all the other factors that go along with
graduating from high school.

Insight from past students can go a long way towards helping to choose the right
path and being prepared for what lies ahead.

Kardinia International College past student Tahlia Sugrue got a perfect score in
her last year of school but said final marks were not the be-all and end-all.

Her best piece of advice for students is to follow your heart when choosing what
you want to do, rather than your score.

``I had my heart set on doing medicine at Melbourne University and even though
my score meant I could have done more, I didn't change my mind,'' Ms Sugrue
said. ``If you know what you want to do then just go for that.''

Ms Sugrue, who finished school in 2011, decided against taking a gap year
because of the length of her course.

``I just wanted to get stuck in,'' she said. ``I can always travel after I
finish my studies.''

Despite how well she did in high school, Ms Sugrue said she quickly realised
that study at university was a more difficult challenge.

``You have to make sure you're really organised and speak up if you don't
understand something,'' she said. ``You tend to pick up new study tactics pretty
fast.''

One great piece of advice for all new university students is to get involved in
orientation week, especially if you're living out of home or don't know many
people in your course.

Former Clonard college student Claire Findlay said only four other girls from
her school went to Monash University like her, so orientation week was a great
way to meet people.

``Now the law faculty is really tight-knit and we can be a part of the study
groups together,'' she said.

For Ms Findlay, choosing between study and travel was tricky but she had
discovered the best of both worlds.

``I've applied to do a semester in Tuscany in 2014,'' she said. ``This way I can
keep studying but also get to experience a bit of Europe.''

Former Geelong College student Nelson Wang is studying medicine at Monash
University. He said life after school could be daunting but also a lot of fun.

``That VCE year is definitely a difficult hump in life, after which life seems
to improve and become easier,'' he said.

``Yes, uni can be a lot of work, but generally you get more free time, more
freedom and everything seems to be a lot more fun.

``You are doing what you want to do instead of what you need to do as a part of
school.''

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GAT


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              793 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                            February 19, 2007 Monday

Undergraduates give city a vote of confidence

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 681 words


Exeter is home to one of the most popular universities in the country, according
to new figures. We take an in-depth look at why more and more young people are
choosing to study there - and the multitude of benefits the students bring to
the city

It's been a bumper year for Exeter University.

Academics have signed a £35m deal to build a new centre for international
students, undergraduates have voted it among the best universities in the UK
and now official figures show it as one of the most popular centres with those
starting a degree course this September.

The university has seen a increase in applications of almost 24 per cent this
year, up from a fall of around eight per cent in 2006.

The rise is among the highest in the country and some  subjects like biosciences
and philosophy have seen even bigger leaps in applications of around 60 per
cent.

University chiefs say that is also good news for Exeter and the figures should
be seen as a vote of confidence in the city from young people.

They also point to the economic benefits that a good university bring to Exeter.

They say students and staff spend around £246m in the city each year and that is
set to rise.

Numbers of students have jumped by about 2,000 to just under 14,000 since 2001
and that will rise again by 30 per cent before 2015.

Last year, the university appointed 100 new academic staff, including 23
professors.

In total, it now employs 3,300 people.

The admissions statistics, released last week by university admissions
organisation UCAS, show a national rise of 6.8 per cent in the number of people
choosing to start university this September.

Exeter has the biggest increase in applications in the South West.

Similar universities seeing a leap in figures are  Bath Spa  with a 25 per cent
increase and Warwick with an 11 per cent rise. Eight per cent more people
applied to Plymouth, while Bristol saw a rise of 16 per cent.

Exeter's admissions staff are still trying to understand what has contributed to
the jump, because it comes only a year after top-up fees of £3,000 a year were
introduced.

Head of admissions Pamela Hoad said changes to courses and improvements to open
days might be responsible.

"We are very pleased the rise is across all subjects. Last year was an unusual
year," Mrs Hoad said.

There was a rise of 122 per cent in the number of students applying to Exeter's
Cornwall campus near Penryn and the new Peninsula Dental School in the city also
proved popular.

The deadline for international students doesn't close until June, but 30 per
cent more have applied to Exeter so far this year.

The university is particularly popular among young people from Hong Kong and
India.

Exeter vice-chancellor Steve Smith said the figures were superb.

"This is an excellent level of growth, and shows that we have a winning
combination of high academic standards on attractive programmes and an excellent
campus experience, along with the growing popularity of the South West," he
said.

"The surge in applications also reflects our efforts in improving our open days
and services to applicants, as well as our strong reputation for student
satisfaction."

The UCAS data comes from applications received before January 15.

Last year, students voted Exeter 10th overall in the National Student Survey for
a second year.

Exeter was listed in the top 20 by The Times newspaper for the first time this
year.

UNIVERSITY FACTS

This year around 22,000 people applied to Exeter for 3,200 places.

Applications for politics are up 41 per cent, business and economics by 35 per
cent and numbers for sports and health sciences  by 31 per cent.

While the study of modern languages has been expected to dip nationwide, there
is a nine per cent rise in applications at Exeter, including a 39 per cent
increase in Russian.

There has been a 60 per cent rise in potential philosophy undergraduates and 58
per cent in biosciences.

Most of Exeter's students are from the South West, London and the South East.

Most international students are from the South East and East Asia but people
also arrive from Europe, including Russia, and the Americas.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              794 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Joplin Globe (Missouri)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            April 13, 2017 Thursday

Joplin's Shelby Beaver, Blaine Jimerson sign college track and field letters

BYLINE: Jim Henry, The Joplin Globe, Mo.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 455 words


April 13--Joplin High School seniors Shelby Beaver and Blaine Jimerson are track
and field teammates through the end of May, but starting next year they become
MIAA foes.

They signed college letters of intent on Wednesday afternoon inside Kaminsky
Gymnasium -- Beaver as a thrower with Missouri Southern and Jimerson as a
distance runner with Southwest Baptist.

Beaver, a three-time state medalist in the shot put, will add the hammer throw
and weight throw to her duties in college.

"I've never tried (the hammer or weight throw)," Beaver said. "I'm super nervous
to see what it's like. I'm afraid of falling, but I'm excited. I like
challenges."

Beaver also considered PIttsburg State before choosing the Lions.

"It's super close to home, and they showed a lot of interest," she said. "It's
just a place where I felt like I could fit in.

"(Signing with MSSU) means a lot. It shows all my hard work paid off."

Beaver's track career began as a runner in the seventh grade, but that didn't
last long.

"They saw that I was pretty strong I guess, so they said I should start
throwing," she said. "I didn't want to throw because I thought they looked
funny.

"But, here I am. And they still look funny."

Jimerson expects to run anything from 800 through 10,000 meters at Southwest
Baptist.

"Probably the mile is my favorite," said Jimerson, who will also run cross
country for the Bearcats. "It's not too long. You don't kill yourself for too
long. And it's also kind of fast. Everybody gets excited for it. No one gets
bored watching it. It's always a fun race to watch."

Jimerson received interest from two more MIAA schools -- Northwest Missouri and
Missouri Western -- before choosing SBU.

"It's a really welcoming community," Jimerson said. "It's a Baptist school, so
that's something that's good. I was so blown away by the welcoming. The coach
there is everything you look for in a coach. He's really humble, gets along with
the athletes. When I went up there, I knew that this is where I want to go."

Jimerson didn't immediately fall in love with running.

"It takes a certain will power to be able to get there," he said. "The coaches
and everything and the friends, it's really my friends who helped me get there.
Didn't fall in love with it immediately, it's a process."

That process developed into a college scholarship agreement.

"It's so exciting," he said. "It's something you wait on your entire life. Ever
since I started running in the sixth grade, it's something that I've looked
forward to. It's been in the back of my mind. Now that it's here, you've put in
the work, it's real exciting."

___ (c)2017 The Joplin Globe (Joplin, Mo.) Visit The Joplin Globe (Joplin, Mo.)
at www.joplinglobe.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170413-JL-Joplin-s-Shelby-Beaver-Blaine-Jimerson-sign-college
-track-and-field-letters-0413-20170413

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JL


                        Copyright 2017 The Joplin Globe

                              795 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 4, 2016 Thursday

New research reveals how structure increases careful thought about decisions

LENGTH: 822  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 Think about it - What factors contribute to making informed, responsible,
thoughtful decisions? New research out of the University of Cincinnati uses a
story about trees to examine how environmental structure plays a key role in
making thoughtful decisions. The research also points to implications as to why
people living in more chaotic environments, such as poverty, are less prone to
use careful deliberation in decision making. The study is published online in
the Journal of Experimental Social Psychology.





 In three different experiments, the researchers explored how structure in one's
environment can impact informed, thoughtful decisions.



 "The basic idea we were examining is that there are causal relationships in our
environment," says lead researcher Ryan Rahinel, an assistant professor of
marketing in UC's Carl H. Lindner College of Business. "When we make people
aware of this, it makes people think more about their decisions."



 In the first study, 94 college students performed a 15-minute sentence
completion task. They were given 16 sets of 5 words to make sentences out of
each set, using four of the words. In the unstructured group, words included
"chaotic, random, chance and haphazard." In the structure group, the words
included "systematic, pattern and order." After that, they were asked to choose
something they would like to do in the next few minutes, such as check e-mail or
do some work. The researchers found that people who were reminded of structure
reported thinking more about their decision.



 In the second experiment, 92 college student participants read a story about
trees before completing their task. One group's article reported that trees grow
in a very patterned and orderly way. The other group read an article suggesting
lack of structure that implied that trees grow very randomly, and that there's
no underlying pattern or relationship to determine how they grow.



 "In both cases, we tell them that this type of growth is very beautiful," adds
Rahinel, "so neither presentation was less flattering than the other."



 After reading the article in the second exercise, the students were assigned a
task of hypothetically choosing among six small gifts, such as an LED keychain
with voice recorder, FM tuner pen, quick-release LED keychain, voice recorder
pen, super-bright LED chip light or an LED multi-tool kit. After the
participants chose their gift, they were asked how much thought they put into
their choice. Rahinel says the group that read the story about trees growing in
very patterned and systematic ways reported putting more thought into choosing
their gift than the students who read the article about trees growing in a
haphazard pattern.



 "So why does this happen? The idea is that when a world is structured according
to relationships, we can exploit these relationships through careful thought to
make better decisions, almost in the same way that one tries to strategize in
games based on its rules," says Rahinel. "When the world is random, there's no
point in thinking about things because random things are going to happen - it's
not like what you do is going to make any difference toward better or worse
outcomes."



 In the third experiment, the researchers created two ads for popcorn. One brand
had strong attributes to support the brand but had an unfamiliar endorser,
Andrew from Oklahoma. The other ad featured a brand that had weaker attributes
but a famous endorser, actor George Clooney.



 This exercise also involved reading the tree article. The majority of students
who had read the article that trees grow in a random pattern chose the popcorn
with weaker attributes but with the famous endorser, while the majority of the
group that read the article about trees growing in a structured way chose the ad
with the lesser-known endorser, but stronger attributes. "We know from prior
research that stronger attributes tend to be more effective than celebrity
pitches if the person thinks carefully about their decision," says Rahinel. "And
we can leverage that fact to demonstrate that this incidental story about trees
leads to different choices."



 The researchers add that the findings support previous research on social class
and decision making, in that chaotic, unstructured environments may contribute
to investing less thought toward making decisions, which ultimately perpetuates
individuals' problems. The authors suggest that future research should consider
other ways in which structure might enable critical aspects of daily life.



 "Overall, these findings point to the importance of structure, and the broader
environment more generally, in shaping elaboration and its downstream outcomes"
report the researchers.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              796 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Southland Times (New Zealand)

                           October 21, 2015 Wednesday

Savvy parents weigh options for kids' schools

BYLINE: EVAN HARDING

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 659 words


Questions about safety, academic achievement, connectedness and culture swirl
around parents and children's minds when it comes to choosing a secondary
school, school principals and parents say.

Southland parents looking for the best education for their children sometimes
also send each of their children to different high schools, school principals
say.

Southland Girls' High School principal Yvonne Browning said parents were savvy
about choosing what schools their kids went to, and it was not uncommon for
siblings to go to different schools based on the needs of each child.

"We have seen parents with four children and they might be at four different
high schools. That's what I mean about parents being savvy. They look at what's
best for their child."

Browning and other school principals spoken to said NCEA results were just one
of numerous factors parents took into account when deciding what high schools
their kids should attend.

Browning said parents wanted to know there was a curriculum in place that would
allow their children to excel; they wanted to know their child was going to a
high- quality and safe learning community where achievement and learning were
the main focus.

Parents wanted quality teachers for their kids and they wanted to know there
were really good relationships between staff, parents and students.

And when parents went to school open days they wanted to see modern schools with
an emphasis on 21st-century learning.

About 20 years ago most parents decided what school their children would go to
but nowadays more children were helping to make the decision, she said.

"The parents would say it's their child's [choice] but I believe the children
pick up on what their parents think."

Some parents sat down with their children to discuss the options.

Southland Boys' High School rector Ian Baldwin said some boys at his school had
brothers at other high schools.

Parents sometimes chose to send one boy to Boys' High because he had strengths
in a particular area, such as sport, and his sibling may go to another school
for other reasons, Baldwin said.

Once parents made the choice they very rarely changed the school.

A survey of Boys' High parents revealed the most important things they
considered when choosing schools were the quality of teaching, the balance of
the curriculum and the safety and sense of belonging at the school, Baldwin
said.

Parents placed "paramount importance" on finding out what schools were doing to
ensure their kids would be kept safe.

"And they want to know what we do to make students feel like they belong and
what we do to make it a fun place."

James Hargest College principal Andy Wood said the school's own parent research
showed academic results were important but just as important was a culture of
strong and positive relationships; a sense of belonging and having a strong set
of values.

When James Hargest promoted itself to potential students it highlighted safety
and values, the encouragement of participation and connectedness and the
provision of excellent teaching, Wood said.

Verdon College principal Jarlath Kelly said NCEA results played an important but
not critical role in its marketing of the college. The college's key marketing
tools were its Catholic character, smaller class and overall school size and its
model of holistic education, Kelly said.

Parents commenting on The Southland Times' Facebook page cited an array of
factors they considered when deciding what school their children should attend.

These included school zoning, school bus availability, class size, location, the
"overall feeling" of the school, religious beliefs, morals, fees, curriculum,
teachers' history, sporting achievements, attendance records, safety,
extracurricular activities on offer, academic achievements, reputation and
word-of-mouth.

Several parents said their children had a say in what school they went to. "With
some gentle guidance it was her decision at the end of the day," one said.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved

                              797 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                            October 28, 2011 Friday
                                Nuneaton Edition

CALL FOR STUDENTS TO CHOOSE ENGINEERING;
Potential is being lost as talented teens chose other subjects

BYLINE: Lucy Lynch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 329  words


BOSSES at Warwick University believe that half of the people with the talent and
ability to become engineers are choosing other careers.

The university is leading a campaign to spot these people when they are in their
early teens and persuade them to set their sights on working as a graduate
engineer.

The university is leading the way on the Talent 2030 campaign aimed at school
pupils with the potential to get top grades in physics, maths and chemist r y.

S

University staff will be targeting as many of them as possible with a focus on
girls from schools in deprived areas.

Vice chancellor at Warwick University Professor Nigel Thrift said: "If the
country is to emerge from the recession and remain internationally competitive
we have to maximise our talent base.

"We need to encourage more women to pursue careers in engineering and
manufacturing.

"If we continue to fail to make use of the talent of more than half population
we will fall behind our international competitors.

"This campaign will reach out to school pupils particularly bright 13-year-olds
in year nine with a concentration on girls and schools in less advantaged
areas."

Those in year nine are at the crucial stage of choosing GCSE subjects which
influence not only A-level choice but university applications. Professor Thrift
was one two people involved in the Talent 2030 campaign who commissioned a
report about the issue. Undergraduates with good grades in science and maths at
GCSE doing subjects other than engineering were asked their views.

Many said they hadn't been given any careers advice about engineering or
manufacturing. Some also said the job appeared to be both male dominated and
dull.

Less than on in ten engineers are women which is the lowest of any European
country.

The university's WMG department, formerly the Warwick Manufac-turing Group, is
in talks about plans to start a University Technical College on the campus.

It would be for 14 to 18-year-olds and would specialise in engineering.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NEED TO REMAIN COMPETITIVE: Vice chancellor Nigel Thrift

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              798 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           December 9, 2015 Wednesday

Goa food festival in Jan to reveal secrets of natural foods

BYLINE: anuradha mascarenhas

LENGTH: 469  words

DATELINE: Pune


IT IS known that Omega 3 fatty acids is good for the heart. But the amazing
qualities of this nutrient are lost if natural foods that it is found in - like
coconut milk or flax seeds- are either boiled or roasted. Just how important
locally-made foods are or how best to cook and store them will be showcased at a
unique natural food festival organised by the National Institute of Naturopathy
(NIN). For the first time, 18 naturopathy colleges from across the country will
gather at Goa in January to give tips on how energy-efficient food can help in
bringing down the carbon footprint.

Pune-based NIN conducts its own food festival every year. However, what is
different this time is that students at nature cure colleges from across states
will come together for the first time and participate in the national natural
food festival, Dr Satya Lakshmi, Director of NIN told The Indian Express.

While different ethnic and traditional delicacies from various states will be
displayed at the national food fest, the meet, however, is more about how to
choose food which is nutritious, tasty, healthy and sustainable, says Dr Satya
Lakshmi.

According to naturopathy , food is medicine and nutrition is an important
subject at these colleges. Among some of the themes of the natural food festival
include how to cook food without losing its nutritional value, how to store and
preserve food, what are the good and bad combinations of food, when to eat and
what not to eat, among others.

The festival also aims at focusing on sustainable food cultivation and
practices, says Dr Satya Lakshmi. "Just one degree centigrade rise in
temperature can result in food shortage, heat stress, more vector-borne
diseases, depression and anxiety. It is important that our lifestyle in choosing
foods that are locally grown will address many of these environmental factors
and also social ones such as providing sustenance to the farmers and preventing
suicides. Eating and choosing the right food is important today," she stressed.

Pune likiely to gets its own naturopathy college

The NIN is an autonomous body under the Ministry of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga and
Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy). Located at the historical place
called Bapu Bhavan (named after Mahatma Gandhi who stayed here for 156 days), it
was also known as the nature cure clinic. Efforts have been consistently made to
get its own naturopathy college and set up a hospital at the 25 acres land on
the campus of the state-run Dr Bandorawala Leprosy hospital at Kondhwa. While
NIN has renovated its own OPD building at Bapu Bhavan, Dr Satya Lakshmi said
they were assured that funds have now been allocated for the naturopathy college
and hospital. "We will get the funds soon," she said, adding that it will be the
first such naturopathy college in Maharashtra.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              799 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                     The Times Higher Education Supplement

                               February 24, 1995

UCAS numbers on the increase; Universities and Colleges Admissions Service

BYLINE: CLAIRE SANDERS

SECTION: Issue 1164, Pg.4

LENGTH: 275 words


Applications for university entry in 1995 are up by 2.2 per cent on last year.

The figures from the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service show that by
the closing date of December 15 1994, 347,321 people had applied for full-time
and sandwich first degree courses.

Mike Scott, university liaison officer at UCAS, said: 'The increase should not
represent a huge problem for universities and colleges seeking to consolidate
their student numbers.'

But, he added, the year-on-year improvement in A-level results meant that it was
increasingly hard for universities to keep numbers down by asking for high
grades: 'You can't go much higher than three As, yet more and more students are
achieving such results.'

The statistics reveal worrying trends for certain subjects. There is an increase
of 28 per cent in those choosing to study languages with another humanities or
arts subject. 'The problem for modern language departments is that they are
becoming adjuncts to other departments as fewer and fewer students are choosing
to study a modern language in isolation.'

The number of people admitted to study French, for example, has not increased
since 1982/83, despite the concurrent massive expansion in higher education.

Media studies has again proved to be popular, with a 60 per cent increase in
applicants over last year, bringing the number of applicants to just over
31,000.

Changes in the classification of engineering students make comparisons
difficult, but the fall in the number of applicants has continued, with only
9,248 applying to do general engineering this year compared to 11,023 last year.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                      Copyright 1995 TSL Education Limited

                              800 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            November 7, 2014 Friday

IITians introspect chance and choice

BYLINE: M Ramya

SECTION: CHENNAI

LENGTH: 500 words


CHENNAI: They expressed no regret at choosing engineering and later becoming
academics who taught budding engineers at one of the country's premier technical
institutions. But, professors at the Indian Institute of Technology - Madras
said they couldn't shake off the feeling that many were perhaps destined to do
something else.

R Nagarajan, dean, international and alumni relations at the institute, said he
had had a good run at the institute as student, teacher and mentor, but writing
was his first love, and there had been a time when he wished that he would not
be able to qualify for admission to the IITs. "I used to call myself a reluctant
IITian," he said.

Parental and peer pressure convince students to choose a particular career,
professor Nagarajan said. "It's very important to give children tools and
weapons to resist these other kinds of influences."

On many occassions, parents also put blinders on their children and insist that
the youngsters spend every waking hour either in school orat tuition. "This is
very unhealthy and distresses me," professor Nagarajan said. He said that it was
at times like these that he felt that the Indian tradition of teaching children
from young to respect elders and believe they know best backfires.

"Our children don't really know what their skills are or where their interests
lie, so they are malleable and offer the path of least resistance," he added.

Former IIT-M director M S Ananth agreed that too much attention was paid to the
opinions of elders in choosing a career. "Experience is valuable but you have to
take it with a pinch of salt," he said. He criticized the education system in
the country for compounding the problem. "We must adopt an idea factory approach
- look at ideas that can spill over from one area to another," he said.

They were speaking at an event organized recently to launch 'My choice, my
future', a self-assessment form designed by the department of management studies
of IIT-Madras and BodhBridge, an educational services company, to help students
and professionals make informed decisions while choosing a career.

L S Ganesh, professor of management studies at IIT-Madras, said many a time he
had come across a pre-final year student wondering why he was pursuing
engineering. "The self-assessment form will also help parents find out how much
they understand their children," professor Ganesh said.

K Balaraju, co-founder and CEO of BodhBridge, said that the idea of coming out
with such a test came to him when he tried to find out why students in
engineering colleges were not interested in taking up his technical e-learning
courses. "When I visited engineering colleges, 99% of students there would tell
me that they were pursuing the course by chance, not by choice," Balaraju said.

Parents also put blinders on their children and insist that the youngsters spend
every waking hour either in school or tuition. This is unhealthy and distresses
me, professor R Nagarajan said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              801 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            August 27, 2009 Thursday
                              North Wales Edition

Plan now for a brighter future;
ADVERTISING FEATURE

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 403 words


WHATEVER your age, academic ability or career aspirations, getting exam results
is never easy. Ask any relative or teacher and they will tell you that even if
they've sat hundreds of exams, receiving the results can be a stressful time.

So if you're opening your GCSE results today, first things first - take a deep
breath and relax.

Whether you get the results you had hoped for or not, you still have plenty of
options open to you.

From deciding whether or not to go on to sixth form and study for an academic
qualification like A-levels to working towards achieving a vocational
qualification at a further education college; enrolling in a specialist
performing arts or agricultural college; opting to learn on the job with an
apprenticeship; going into full time employment or even choosing a career in the
armed forces.

Whichever option you choose it's important to think through your options
carefully.

Choosing what to do next can often seem daunting, so it may also help to talk to
someone such as your parents, friends and family or your school's careers
adviser.

Remember there are no set choices, so if you feel the academic routes isn't for
you and your skills lie elsewhere, don't worry - there are plenty of other
options available to you.

From vocational courses such as BTECs, City & Guilds and NVQs, which combine
tuition with practical experience, to apprenticeships, which provide a way to
learn a trade, earn money and achieve a national qualification all at the same
time.

Usually lasting between one and two years, apprenticeships are available in a
diverse range of subjects.

Apprenticeships also usually include time at college and in the workplace, so
you can learn the theory of your chosen career and develop the skills you'll
need to succeed through on-the-job experience.

If you want to go into full time employment after leaving secondary school, talk
to your parents and school careers adviser to discuss what types of jobs would
suit your interests and abilities, research what jobs are available and put
together a CV.

For those looking to work in a more challenging environment, the armed forces
offer an extensive array of careers and provide qualifications that are
recognised by civilian employers, helping you to develop your skills.

With so many options available, the world really is your oyster. So whatever you
decide to do, make sure you research all of the options.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Staying on in education may be your best way forward Be prepared when
entering the world of work

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              802 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 9, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Living off the bank of mum and dad: the students who swap loans for free tuition

BYLINE: Joanna Sugden; Laura Pullman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 460 words


University students could avoid paying tuition fees if they waive their right to
loans and grants under plans which critics say would force them to live with
their parents and study at universities close to their homes.

The "no-fee degrees" being considered by ministers would let students save
almost £10,000 but would depend on them forgoing government financial support,
worth up to £25,000 over a three-year degree.

University heads, student leaders and education policy experts called the plan
confused.

Recent studies suggest that rising numbers of students are already choosing to
live at home to save money.

A survey published today indicates that more state school pupils than ever
aspire to go to university. The poll by the Sutton Trust, an education charity,
found that 77 per cent aim to do so, up from 73 per cent last year.

Tuition fees will be capped at £3,225 a year from next year but university heads
are pushing to charge more. A report this year by Universities UK, which
represents universities, found that, by 2016, a graduate's average debt would be
£26,400 if fees were raised to £5,000.

Under current rules, students can claim a loan for tuition fees, and more for
living costs. There are also grants for the poorest students, who can get up to
£11,606 a year if they live in London. Graduates start to repay loans when they
are earning more than £15,000 a year.

It is not clear if eligibility for what is being proposed, in a draft framework
for the future of higher education, would be means-tested or whether students
from wealthier backgrounds could take advantage.

Sally Hunt, of the University and College Union, said: "We want students to have
access to decent local courses, but the facts are that these plans will see
students with the necessary resources choosing where and what they wish to study
and those from poorer backgrounds denied the opportunity to move away." James
Turner, of the Sutton Trust, said: "Higher education should be available to all,
regardless of their ability to pay and their willingness to take on debt."

Wes Streeting, president of the National Union of Students, said: "This idea,
clearly intended to broaden horizons to non-traditional entrants, could
unintentionally hinder choice and limit horizons," he said.

Ministers are due to begin a review of tuition fees this year. Vice-chancellors
have said that there is an £8,000 deficit between what it costs to teach a
student and the amount paid in fees.

Professor Paul Wellings, chair-elect of the 1994 Group of research-intens ive
universities, said: "We will be cautious of any new proposals that result in
cut-price, lower-quality degrees of a lower value to students."

David Willetts, the Shadow Skills Secretary, said the no-fees idea was worth
exploring.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Riaz Docrat plans to stay with his mother Shenaz although sister Zainab
wants him to go so she can have his room. "You have to be an extrovert," he says

FABIO DE PAOLA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              803 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                            January 10, 2011 Monday

More students choose universities in Japan;
Briefly: Education

BYLINE: BY THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 391 words

ABSTRACT

More students than ever are choosing universities in Japan for study abroad,
while the number of Japanese students leaving the country to study has fallen
markedly since 2004.

FULL TEXT

Japan is friendly to students, both foreign and domestic

More students than ever are choosing universities in Japan for study abroad, and
the number of Japanese students leaving the country to study has fallen markedly
since a peak in 2004, according to two reports released at the end of December.

The Japan Student Services Organization, an independent institution, reported
that the number of foreign students studying in Japan reached record highs of
141,774 in 2010, up 6.8 percent from the previous year.

Meanwhile, data released by the Japanese Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports,
Science and Technology indicate that the number of Japanese students studying
abroad has been declining since a peak of 82,945 in 2004. In the most recent
figures, from 2008, the number of students was under 67,000, down 11 percent
from the previous year.

Yukari Kato, executive vice president of Ryugaku Journal, which provides
information about overseas study, told The Yomiuri Shimbun that many students
were afraid of being left behind in Japan's competitive job market.

Ms. Kato said she also viewed the slowing birthrate and an introspective
mind-set among students as possible contributing factors.

Use of Twitter is linked to higher grades, study finds

According to a new study published in The Journal of Computer Assisted Learning,
Twitter can bolster student engagement and grade-point average.

The study followed 125 pre-health majors at a midsize public university. Those
using Twitter, says Rey Junco of Lock Haven University in Pennsylvania, the lead
author, had an average G.P.A. half a point higher than their counterparts in a
non-tweeting control group. They also more frequently participated in class,
sought out professors and discussed course material outside of class.

Twitter was used for discussions, questioning professors in and out of class,
receiving feedback and reminders, and reviewing course concepts reduced to terse
fundamentals, all via laptop or cellphone.

Students seemed to find the medium a less intimidating way to express themselves
in large lecture halls. ''Twitter was a useful, low-stress way to ask
questions,'' Mr. Junco said.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              804 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Retford Times

                          September 18, 2014 Thursday

SECTION: AGENCY:OTHER; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 780  words


Two local A Level students who studied at Worksop College will be heading off to
study at the University of Oxford in September.

Eighteen year old Megan Clothier, from Blyth and Josie Levick, from Saundby,
will both be taking up their highly-prized places after securing the A grades
they needed.

Megan will be studying Classics at St. Hilda's College and Josie will be
studying Law at St Catherine's College Oxford. Both girls attended Worksop
College Preparatory School Ranby House before attending Worksop College for the
last five years of their education.

Josie said: "I am really, really pleased and I couldn't ask for anything better
- I am so excited about going to Oxford. No-one in my family has ever been to
university before so I'm pleased - my mum is so happy!

Megan said: "I am so relieved that I've got what I needed so I can get excited
about going now - Everyone at Worksop College has done really well, so many
people have exceeded their offers."

Josie said: "I couldn't thank the school enough for everything they've done for
me. In every aspect I couldn't ask for a better school - I went to Ranby too so
it's been good all the way through."

Meg added: "I can't imagine anywhere else really. I've loved it and all the
opportunities I've been offered."

Across the board, Worksop College students produced outstanding results in this
year's A Level Examinations with more than 35 per cent of all entries achieving
an A*- A, with more than 80 per cent of entries being marked at a Grade C or
above. This bucks the trend on the national picture which shows that proportion
of top grades has declined.

The excellent results mean that large numbers of students have secured the
results they need for their first choice of Universities which include Imperial,
the London School of Economics (LSE), Durham, Birmingham, Cardiff, Leeds,
Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle, Nottingham, Aberdeen, Bath, Leicester,
Loughborough and Royal Holloway.

Gavin Horgan, Headmaster at Worksop College said: "Josie and Megan both richly
deserve their places at the world's finest university and they have got there
through hard work and determination."

"The team at Worksop College is absolutely delighted that the hard work of our
students has produced such an incredible set of results: what we have seen in
this year's results is a group of students who have shown just what they can
produce; on behalf of everyone here, I would like to extend my congratulations
to each and every one of our students."

Christian Pritchard is Headmaster at Worksop College Preparatory School, Ranby
House in Ranby. With schools across the area holding open days in the coming
weeks, choosing a school for your child can be a daunting prospect for parents
and children alike.

Here Mr Pritchard offers advice to parents with children of all ages, on key
questions to ask and what to look out for as part of the decision-making
process.

Choosing a School Checklist:

â-  Involve your children in asking questions. Will they make friends easily
with pupils here? Pupils will often be involved in the Open Day - at Ranby
House, pupils take visitors on the tour and we encourage families to ask their
pupil guides about us. They will tell you about the school as it is!

â-  Do your homework. Interrogate data but be mindful that it can only tell you
part of the story - know the questions that are important to your family and
don't be afraid to ask them.Talk to existing parents, have a look at the
school's website, look at tables, speak to pupils - but be prepared to make a
choice about what is right for your child.

â-  Ask questions of the teachers. Good schools will welcome this as they want
parents to be involved in supporting their child's education, beginning with
your choice of school:

1. How does the School support children academically?

2. How are children supported at every stage to achieve to the best of their
ability?

3. How does the school ensure the least able and most able are supported in
their learning and love of learning?

4. How does this school add value to your child's educational experience?

5. What academic enrichment opportunities are there?

â-   What are the school's values? Consider the extra curricular activities.
Look for a school where you can envisage your child being happy and where they
can flourish. What is the atmosphere like? Is it positive? Are the pupils happy
there? Are they polite and well behaved? Happiness matters.

â-  What are the facilities like? Is the school well kept? Is there a sense of
pride in the school? Again, this matters: children learn and thrive in positive
environments. Equally, underinvestment in facilities is often a sign of a school
in trouble.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: University places: Megan Clothier and Josie Levick
Christian Pritchard, headmaster at Worksop College and School, Ranby House in
Ranby

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              805 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                           February 15, 2007 Thursday

Baccalaureate is popular choice for college students

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 510 words


More and more teenagers are choosing to take on one of Exeter College's toughest
courses.

This year, a record number of 16-year-olds applied to take the International
Baccalaureate, which embraces maths, languages, science and arts subjects.

The course is an alternative to A-levels for which teenagers generally study
only three subjects.

Exeter College was among the first in the country to offer the challenging IB 14
years ago and now numbers of youngsters choosing the course have more than
doubled.

A total of 22 graduated from the IB last year and 64 are starting this year's
course.

The college is still the only one in Devon where teenagers can take the
European-style qualification.

The IB can even include Japanese and encourages pupils to complete projects
which help the community.

There are currently 94 institutions across the country which offer the IB and
only 52 of them are state-run. Nationally, about 5,000 youngsters complete IBs
every year.

Betty Woodfin, Exeter College's IB co-ordinator, said: "We have had our highest
ever recruitment for IB this year with 64 students enrolled in the first year.

"The IB is an opportunity for academically able students to be really stretched
and reach their full potential but it is also for students who have a broad
range of interests and who don't want to narrow their options at 16."

Students take three subjects at higher level and three at standard level.

This year's new IB students say they chose the course because they could not
decide what to do, and completing a range of subjects helped to keep their
options open.

Toby Glazebrook, 17, from Exmouth, said: "The IB has proved to be a great choice
because it gives you a qualification which is recognised all over the world."

His friend Luke While, 17, who lives on Exeter Quay, hopes to be a psychologist
in the future.

He was educated at home because his mother moved around the country as part of
her job as an interior designer, so he is also getting used to working with
others.

Luke said: "I wasn't sure what I wanted to do and I think people on the IB
course are more motivated which means I get on with them better. I'm enjoying it
loads."

Lillie Dore, 17, also had an unusual education before starting her IB.

She was taught at the Totnes Steiner School, which places less emphasis on
targets or examinations.

Lillie now wants to work on aid projects abroad.

Isabel Skrine, 16, from Crediton, also chose the IB so she could take more
subjects.

"The course is very challenging. It feels a bit like GCSEs but of course it's a
lot harder," she said.

"I also think you get to know more people because we are a smaller group."

IB student Nikki Tomkins, 16, from St James, Exeter, wants to be an English or
history teacher.

"The course has really changed my idea of what I want to do," the former Clyst
Vale Community College student said.

Natalie Guppy, 17, another student from Queen Elizabeth's Community College in
Crediton, likes the close group atmosphere among the IB students.

Natalie has chosen to study Japanese, which she says is her favourite subject.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              806 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                             June 13, 2015 Saturday
                              SAT REGIONAL Edition

Testing will still stress out students

BYLINE: Olivia Friedman

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 492 words


My career in standardized state tests began in third grade when I was told that
the Colorado Student Assessment Program was a very important test that I would
take until my second year in high school.

Much of the months leading up to my first experience with this all important
test was spent preparing for it. I was under the impression that failure to
perform on this test would mean I would never get into college, would never get
to fourth grade, and certainly would never be successful.

I can't say that anyone ever told me those things. It's that everyone told me it
was important and, come testing day, I remember sweating bullets and agonizing
over even the slightest uncertainty that I had chosen the wrong answer.

Fast forward eight years. In 11th grade, I was still taking tests. And now, the
more I've learned about state testing, the more I have become aware of the moral
dilemmas surrounding standardized tests.

They're linked to teacher pay. They cost the district God knows how much money
to administer. They take away from instruction time. All of those points have
been argued and reargued. What hasn't been closely looked at is how these tests
actually affect students. I, and every last one of my classmates, can speak to
the disturbing effects we are seeing in our schools as a result of these tests.

Sure, the legislature this year has revamped school testing in Colorado,
essentially eliminating tests under the Partnership for Assessment of Readiness
for College and Careers (PARCC) in 11th and 12th grade, and replacing 10th grade
PARCC tests with shorter college prep exams. It also cut back testing in
kindergarten through grade 3, but preserved ninth grade PARCC English and math
testing.

Students will still be given PARCC and a battery of other statewide assessments
throughout their public school careers. The major issue is the cumulative effect
of the expectations placed on students. House Bill 1323 is a step in the right
direction, but its elimination for some grades will, in the grand scheme of
things, have little effect on the amount of stress that students experience
because of testing. How are we supposed to decide what matters?

Junior year is full of AP classes, the ACT, the PSAT, the SAT, beginning your
college search, community service, working, staying involved in activities that
look good on a college application, etc. There isn't a second to waste.

The kids who feel it the most? The ones who are choosing to take AP courses, who
are choosing to take the ACT seriously and prepare for it, who are trying to
succeed at a high level.

Perhaps that fear and pressure to test will not affect future students. But I
doubt it. While the solution to reducing the pressures of testing in
consideration with the needs of students isn't quite clear, one thing's for
sure: Kids aren't OK. Ask any one of them.

Olivia Friedman is in the class of 2016 at North High School. She is a member of
the 2015 Colorado Voices panel.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              807 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                            March 16, 2016 Wednesday
                               Advertiser Edition

GPs take scalpel to treatment

BYLINE: SUE DUNLEVY NATIONAL HEALTH REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 473  words


PARENTS are being told they shouldn't give children pain relievers to reduce
fever and doctors are to refuse antibiotics for kids with ear infections under a
crackdown on needless medical treatment.

In a drastic reworking of guidelines for GPs, doctors have reviewed the medical
evidence for 61 of the most commonly sought medical treatments and rejected
those they think are unnecessary.

Fourteen prestigious medical colleges have nominated the areas of waste and
inappropriate treatment as part of a bid to rein in health costs and improve
medical practice under the NPS Choosing Wisely program, previously known as the
National Prescription Service.

They say palliative care, rather than expensive intensive care, should be used
as people come to the end of their lives, and that these patients should be
taken off medications used to prevent disease. People with dementia should not
be fed through tubes and surgeons are being urged not to operate on hernias.

Australian Medical Association president Professor Brian Owler said the colleges
had looked at the evidence and come up with recommendations that certain
practices were not providing best value.

They recommend against routine use of antibiotics in kids aged two to 12.
Instead, parents should use paracetamol or ibuprofen to control the pain,
antibiotics should only be given if the child has a fever, is vomiting or
lethargic, says the president of the Royal Australian College General
Practitioners Dr Frank Jones.

But the Australian College of Nursing adds that children should not be given
paracetamol or ibuprofen solely to bring down temperature.

Medicine should only be used to reduce fever if the child is uncomfortable or
distressed, the college says.

One in 14 children suffer side effects from antibiotics and their overuse is
fuelling the rise of antibiotic resistant infections.

Medical colleges are also calling for a stop to X-rays of most foot and ankle
injuries as part of the campaign.

The Government has set up is own review of all 5700 items on the Medicare
Benefits Schedule. In eight months it has only identified 23 mostly obsolete
items that should be removed from the Medicare benefits schedule, a measure that
would save the government just $7 million from its $29.5 billion Medicare spend.

The savings from the Choosing Wisely campaign would be far greater.

TOUGH MEDICINE Test, scans and medicines doctors say you don't need: No
antibiotics for ear infections No to Paracetamol or Ibuprofen to control fever
No to X-rays of ankle or foot trauma No to chest X-rays for uncomplicated
bronchitis No to routine colonoscopies No to antibiotics for upper respiratory
tract infections No to long-term use of anti-inflammatories in the elderly No to
X-rays for lower back pain No to repeated blood tests for people with fatigueNo
to CT scans to check for appendicitis

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Advertiser


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              808 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                 The Dominion Post (Morgantown, West Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune News Service

                            August 5, 2006 Saturday

Choosing college not a race for Christopher

BYLINE: Justin Jackson, The Dominion Post, Morgantown, W.Va.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 542 words


Aug. 5--KINGWOOD -- You would think the hard part comes from the hard work that
goes into setting state records and milestones.

Preston High distance runner Kaylyn Christopher is finding out it doesn't get
much easier after you receive the accolades.

Christopher became the first high school girl in West Virginia to break five
minutes in the 1600 meters and also set an all-time state mark with a 10:33.18
in the 3200 last track season.

Along the way, the rising senior became one of the state's highestrecruited
athletes.

And now she's finding out what the real hard part is -- making a college
decision.

"I really didn't know what to expect when colleges first started visiting," said
Christopher, who is preparing for the upcoming cross country season. "I didn't
have any real expectations. I was just looking forward to what the coaches had
to say."

Coaches from Nebraska were the first to stop by, followed by a visit from
coaches from Louisville.

WVU distance coach Sean Cleary has also made a hard push for Christopher's
services.

"The hard part now, and I never really thought of it before, but it's time to
start thinking about what I'm going to do," she said. "It's like you always
think there's going to be time later to make a decision, but it's not like that.
The time flies by so fast."

Coaches from Richmond and Purdue will be making in-house visits in the coming
days.

"Right now, I'm basically trying to keep things simple," Christopher said. "I'm
obviously looking for a school with a good running program, but there's more
involved than that. I want to feel comfortable with the school and the program
and I'm also looking for a school with a good journalism program. That's very
important to me."

Christopher is also going back and forth on how far she wants to go for college.

"I'm not sure how far I want to travel right now," Christopher said. "It might
be great to go out and experience something far away, but it also would be great
to be close to home. There's a lot of issues I have to sort out."

It was an interesting summer for Christopher, who competed in the prestigious
Nike Outdoor National Championships, in Greensboro, N.C., in June.

While Christopher has always strived to push herself against the best and has
wondered herself just how fast her times can be, it turned out to be a
disappointing experience.

Against some of the top prep runners in the country, Christopher ran an 11:25 in
the 3200.

"It was something new for her," Preston coach Paul Martin said. "She's never
been in a situation like that before and it was something she wasn't very happy
about afterward.

"We've talked about it since and I think it's all in the past for her. Right
now, I think she's using it more for motivation. She can't wait to go back next
year and give it another go."

By that time the hard part will be over and Christopher will have already made
her college decision.

The she gets to have fun. All that will be left is to run.

Copyright (c) 2006, The Dominion Post, Morgantown, W.Va. Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Business News. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20060805-MV-0805-Choosing-college-not-a-race-for-Christopher

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MV


                        Copyright 2006 The Dominion Post

                              809 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 9, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Living off the bank of mum and dad: the students who swap loans for free tuition

BYLINE: Joanna Sugden; Laura Pullman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 484 words


University students could avoid paying tuition fees if they waive their right to
loans and grants under plans which critics say would force them to live with
their parents and study at universities close to their homes.

The "no-fee degrees" being considered by ministers would let students save
almost £10,000 but would depend on them forgoing government financial support,
worth up to £25,000 over a three-year degree.

University heads, student leaders and education policy experts called the plan
confused.

Recent studies suggest that rising numbers of students are already choosing to
live at home to save money.

A survey published today indicates that more state school pupils than ever
aspire to go to university. The poll by the Sutton Trust, an education charity,
found that 77 per cent aim to do so, up from 73 per cent last year.

Tuition fees will be capped at £3,225 a year from next year but university heads
are pushing to charge more. A report this year by Universities UK, which
represents universities, found that, by 2016, a graduate's average debt would be
£26,400 if fees were raised to £5,000.

Under current rules, students can claim a loan for tuition fees, and more for
living costs. There are also grants for the poorest students, who can get up to
£11,606 a year if they live in London. Graduates start to repay loans when they
are earning more than £15,000 a year.

It is not clear if eligibility for what is being proposed, in a draft framework
for the future of higher education, would be means-tested or whether students
from wealthier backgrounds could take advantage.

Sally Hunt, of the University and College Union, said: "We want students to have
access to decent local courses, but the facts are that these plans will see
students with the necessary resources choosing where and what they wish to study
and those from poorer backgrounds denied the opportunity to move away." James
Turner, of the Sutton Trust, said: "Higher education should be available to all,
regardless of their ability to pay and their willingness to take on debt."

Wes Streeting, president of the National Union of Students, said: "This idea,
clearly intended to broaden horizons to non-traditional entrants, could
unintentionally hinder choice and limit horizons," he said.

Ministers are due to begin a review of tuition fees this year. Vice-chancellors
have said that there is an £8,000 deficit between what it costs to teach a
student and the amount paid in fees.

Professor Paul Wellings, chair-elect of the 1994 Group of research-intens ive
universities, said: "We will be cautious of any new proposals that result in
cut-price, lower-quality degrees of a lower value to students."

David Willetts, the Shadow Skills Secretary, said the no-fees idea was worth
exploring. The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills said a number of
proposals for increasing access to higher education were being considered.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Riaz Docrat plans to stay with his mother Shenaz although sister Zainab
wants him to go so she can have his room
FABIO DE PAOLA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              810 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                     PR.com

                       July 25, 2017 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Big Data Analysis Helps Students Choose College Majors

BYLINE: Majorfit inc

LENGTH: 613  words


Los Angeles, CA,  July 25, 2017 --(PR.com)-- Only 27 percent of college
graduates in the United States have a career related to their college majors if
a recent report finding by the Washington post is to go by. In another survey by
Career Builder, a whopping 51 percent of employed college graduates confessed
that their jobs have very little to do with their college majors. Unfortunately,
on average, a 2016 college graduate owes the government more than $37,000 on
student loans. Certainly, the students need a guide to help them choose college
majors that are perfect fits for their talents, skills, and interests.
Majorfit.com, a leading publisher of student assessment tools, has launched a
program that will help the students make informed decisions when choosing
college majors. The program consists of some self-administered assessments that
will effectively guide students to determine what careers will be most relevant
to their strengths.

"Many high school students work relentlessly for the 4.0+ GPA, yet most of them
do not know what major they want to choose, and very few take time to explore
the viable career options. Consequently, the college dropout rate has reached 38
percent and a greater percentage change their majors before finishing their
college programs,'' says Majorfit's Co-Founder, Sara Park. "Considering the high
cost of tuition in both public and private universities, the undecided bright
young minds often waste a fortune and valuable time pursuing courses they won't
practice. The need to guide them when choosing the majors is urgent.
Majorfit.com will help them decide majors that lead to realistic careers."

Another Co-Founder, Steven Choi says, "We use Big data analysis to find
student's suitability and strength. That's totally different approach than any
traditional personality test."

According to Choi, no special requirements are needed to take the
self-administered assessments; any student can do them. The tests can be taken
online, and results are instant and self-interpreted. All they need is a
computer and an internet connection to access the website.

The Majorfit assessments are based on the fact that graduates tend to work in
environments that are realistic, enterprising, social and more importantly
relevant to their skills. The tests are structured to help the students
determine their competencies and aspirations concerning the occupational
information available in their database so that they can easily relate their
skills with viable college majors. Majorfit aptitude test (MAT) is developed by
big data analysis based on recent brain research and epistemology. This is why
interpretations of the results are significantly different from most
psychological theorized tests such as the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI).

The new website has now been brought up-to-date with thousands of jobs at all
skill and education levels as well as data collected from over 500,000 cases of
interviews and tracking records. The interface works well on smartphones,
tablets, laptops, and desktops.

For more information on the program, visit their website https://majorfit.com/

About Majorfit

Majorfit inc is a top developer of self-assessment tools and learning materials.
For the time it has been in service, it has helped thousands of people with
innovative self-test solutions. With a qualified team onboard, through a unique
program, the site aims to guide college students understand their aptitudes so
that they can choose majors most suitable for their strengths.

Contact Information

Contact Person: Steven Choi

Address: 46-E Peninsula Center suite 426, Rolling Hills Estates, CA 90274

Phone: (213) 670-3520

Email: st@Majorfit.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2017 PR.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              811 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Ottumwa Courier (Iowa)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            September 9, 2016 Friday

IHCC new term

BYLINE: Winona Whitaker, Ottumwa Courier, Iowa

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 672 words


Sept. 09--OTTUMWA -- In the face of changes in the needs of employers and the
attitudes of prospective students and their parents, community colleges are
shifting their focus and marketing strategies. No longer a stopping point on the
way to a four-year school, community colleges are becoming as much a destination
for students as are universities.

"Community colleges have become places where students want to go and live, and
they are not looked at as just commuter colleges anymore," explained Marlene
Sprouse, president of Indian Hills Community College. Students are coming from
farther away because of specific program availability rather than driving in for
the day because the college is close to home. Some come for athletics, some for
international diversity and some for specific academic programs, Sprouse said.

"We're seeing more that parents and students are looking carefully at all their
options," Sprouse said, "and they're choosing community college as somewhere to
go other than as a default." High school enrollment is declining in the
10-county area served by IHCC, and "if we rely on that, enrollment at IHCC will
decline," said Sprouse.

The new term at Indian Hills Community College in Ottumwa began August 29.
Officials anticipate that the number of credit hours will be down about four
percent from last year, but the head count is up from last year at 4,407 people.
Final numbers will not be available until later this week.

"It looks like we actually have more full-time students," said IHCC President
Marlene Sprouse, "which is a good thing."

Credit hours will be affected by the number of part-time students and by high
school students who are taking college credit concurrently with high school
classes. "It affects how we schedule classes and load faculty," Sprouse said.
"It affects our budget because students pay by credit hours." Head count tells
the number of people benefitting from the college

Residence halls are full, which is not unusual, but this year it's not just that
all rooms are occupied, but all beds are occupied as well. "We were scrambling
to make sure that we have enough room for people," said Sprouse. This reflects
the trend of students from distances choosing community colleges rather than
four-year schools.

A group of students from the African nation of Cameroon have enrolled at IHCC
this year, Sprouse said. Foreigners will come to the U.S. and look for schools
that offer programs they are interested in. The students from Cameroon were
looking for health programs.

"We didn't go recruiting that group from Cameroon," said Sprouse, but "we have
intentionally, for the last year, recruited internationally. We like the
diversity." Families want their children to come to the U.S. to learn, Sprouse
said. They like the small colleges, the small towns and safe communities.

IHCC had 168 international students enrolled last year, Sprouse said, and around
180 today, "so we're getting close to that 200 mark, which is what we want."

About 60 percent of IHCC students are career and technical students, a larger
percentage of student population than at any other college in the state. Indian
Hills has about 75 technical programs from which to choose.

This is the first term for the dental hygiene program, Sprouse said. Sixteen
students are enrolled for the inaugural term. "That's not bad for a first year,"
Sprouse said. "That will grow."

Sprouse said that decisions to add career and technical programs are based on
work force need, sometimes locally and sometimes in a broader area. The college
listens to advisors, prospective students and employers to determine what
programs might best meet the needs of the students and employers. Officials
study how much need there is and what the prospect is for attracting students to
the new program. "Dental hygiene is one that we've been studying for a long
time," said Sprouse.

___ (c)2016 the Ottumwa Courier (Ottumwa, Iowa) Visit the Ottumwa Courier
(Ottumwa, Iowa) at www.ottumwacourier.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160909-OT-IHCC-new-term-0909-20160909

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OT


                         Copyright 2016 Ottumwa Courier

                              812 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Pakistan Today

                           January 13, 2018 Saturday

'Saturday City Dialogue Series 2018' a forum to discuss cities and citizens

LENGTH: 436  words


LAHORE:The Urban Unit has initiated "The Saturday City Dialogue Series 2018" in
partnership with, and at the Quaid-e-Azam Library Lahore to discuss the cities
of Pakistan with a special emphasis on the roles of the citizens.The first of
the series was conducted by Dr Nadeem Haque, an eminent scholar writer and
former deputy chairman of the planning commission of Pakistan.

He discussed the planning of cities keeping in view the citizens' perspectives
and livability issues.It was an informal interactive dialogue with some 100
participants questioning, cross-questioning and deliberating on various aspects
of living in urban spaces.

Dr Nadeem stressed the significance of policy work and research to achieve the
targets of economic development in Pakistan. He added that cities are vital for
being the centres for growth.

He said that a planned land development and vertical growth of the cities can
unlock the wealth for the country in the longer run."Government has a major role
to develop planned cities and markets in order to achieve the goal of provision
of quality life to everyone.

The citizens have yet a bigger role in thinking and communicating with the
planners for their good but this process will start when we start pondering on
our issues," he added.Earlier, Dr Nasir Javed, the chief executive officer of
the Urban Unit elaborated the purpose of choosing a public space to initiate a
productive conversation for the citizens.

"Choosing an auditorium of a public library is an attempt to ensure the
participation of public and discussing views on a larger scale for viable
solutions and healthy discussions," he added.Renowned names like Dr Salman Shah
former finance minister, Rafay Alam lawyer and environment specialist, Mohiuddin
Wani DG Benazir Income Support Programme, Pervaiz Qureshi a well-known
architect, Ayesha Zaman a master trainer at the PITB, Dr Amin A.

Siddiq dean Imperial College Lahore and representatives from many other
departments and companies also participated in the dialogue. A large number of
students from various colleges and universities and scholars also came to attend
the first dialogue of the series.

By introducing the City Dialogue, the Urban Unit is attempting to create an
avenue fordiscussion through each dialogue  bringing to table some unique
perspectives and experiences.Throughfacilitating information sharingand face to
face interaction, the Urban Unit aims to play a role in encouraging people to
ponder, break down the barriers causedby stereotypes and discuss the dynamics of
the country's cities to transform into livable and lively spaces for everyone.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2018 Nawa Media (Pvt.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              813 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                           April 22, 1992, Wednesday

The corn-chip snag

BYLINE: By Trish Hallfood; health

SECTION: LIVING; Section C; Page 1

LENGTH: 243 words


But in a re-evaluation of the studies, Bennett Galef, a professor of psychology
at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, argued that the researchers nearly
always ignored evidence that contradicted their theses.

His interpretation of the studies showed that animals are not especially adept
at choosing a balanced diet when offered alternatives of varying nutritive
value.

The Davis study found that children could choose a healthy diet, he said,
because they were offered only nutritious foods, all equally palatable. They
weren't given the option of choosing snack items like corn chips.

The indication is that children probably will eat well if they aren't controlled
and directed by adults, and if they are given only nutritious foods to choose
from. In the real world, that's very tough to do.

Dr. Galef believes that animals are very influenced by other animals when it
comes to choosing food.

"There is social learning about what to eat," he said. Rats decide what to eat,
he said, by smelling the food on the breath of other rats.

Ms. Birch has found similar results with children, who seem more likely to mimic
one another than to mimic adults. When a pea-hating child was put in with a
group of pea-loving children, for instance, the pea- hater converted after a few
days and began to eat the previously odious vegetable.

Now all you need to do is find a group of pea-loving children.

-Trish Hall writes for The New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: color illustration: / DAVID WINK / Staff

                    Copyright 1992 The Atlanta Constitution

                              814 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                              March 9, 2012 Friday

More students opt for science courses

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 549 words


The Central Applications Office has seen the numbers seeking entry to the 40
colleges it works with steady off, after years of growth, to 71,612 up to the
Feb 1 deadline, just 146 more than a year ago.

But Irish students will be competing for 45,000 places with 27% more students
from the North and Britain than in 2011.

Figures released in March show that applications from Irish students to British
universities are down 19% on last year to less than 5,500, probably due to the
rise in tuition fees in England, the North and Wales to £9,000 (almost EUR
10,800).

But the CAO figures published yesterday show a reciprocal rise in British
students seeking to study here, where a EUR 2,250 student contribution will
apply from next autumn. They include 1,301 applicants with a British address -
up from 1,041 in 2011 - and 1,148 who have given an address in the North, up 30%
from 882 a year ago.

There is an 18.5% rise in the numbers who have selected science courses as their
first preference from almost 900 honours bachelor degrees (level 8) - almost one
in every seven students has done so. The 8,146 CAO applicants opting for science
compares to just one in 11 of the 2010 entrants.

Other study disciplines to see rising interest include medicine, nursing, law
and business but the increases are modest by comparison. The dwindling prospects
and pay for teaching jobs may be behind a fall in applications for education
degrees to below 5,000 for the first time in five years.

Degrees in arts and social science remain the most popular, accounting for the
top choice of more than one in four applying for a level 8 course this year.
Prospective students can change their course lists as often as they like until
Jul 1, with the option of choosing 10 level 8 and 10 level 7 or 6 (ordinary
degree or higher certificate) courses.

NUI Maynooth president Professor Philip Nolan said increases in first
preferences for its science and technology courses - including a 60% rise in
computer science degrees and one-third more than last year favouring chemistry
and pharmaceutical chemistry - are encouraging in light of industry calls for
graduates in these areas.

Trinity College Dublin said there is a 5% rise in students choosing its courses
as their first preference, with one in four of all CAO applicants putting at
least one TCD degree on their lists. They include 13% more than last year
ranking science at Trinity as their top choice, while British applicants make up
9% of those seeking entry.

Planned reforms of the college entry system - put forward by the HEA and the
National Council for Curriculum and Assessment and largely backed by Education
Minister Ruairi Quinn - include proposals for more general entry courses, rather
than requiring school leavers to choose very specific courses starting out. The
number of courses on offer through the CAO has risen from 543 in 1996 to almost
1,300 last year.

The choices

CAO Level 8 first-preferences

* Arts/social science: 15,698 students (down 3.4% from 2011)

* Business/administration: 8,831 (+1.5%)

* Science: 8,146 (+18.5%)

* Nursing: 5,775 (+3.2%)

* Engineering/Technology 5,433 (+0.3%)

* Education: 4,963 (-6.3%)

* Medicine: 3,719 (+3.6%)

* Art & design: 2,485 (-9.7%)

* Law: 2,089 (+1.2%)

* Other healthcare: 1,362 (-12.5%)

* Built environment: 148 (-20%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              815 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 5, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

For College Students, Choosing an Account Can Be a Minefield

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS.

Email: yourmoneyadviser@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY ADVISER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 643 words


Students heading to college are often barraged with offers to open special
accounts to manage their money. But they should be aware that not all the
accounts are alike.

In recent years, colleges and universities have increasingly partnered with
banks and other financial services companies to market special debit cards and
checking accounts to students.

Many schools contract with outside companies to handle the distribution of
financial aid ''refunds,'' or money left over for educational costs after
deducting tuition and fees. Students are often steered to accounts or debit
cards offered by the school's contractor; sometimes, students receive debit
cards that double as student identification cards.

Forty percent of college students attend schools with such marketing agreements,
according to a report from the federal Government Accountability Office. And
while the accounts may benefit a small proportion of students who don't qualify
for traditional bank accounts, students shouldn't assume that these accounts are
their best option, consumer advocates say.

Campus-affiliated accounts may come with fees that can add up if students don't
use the accounts carefully. Some campus debit cards, for instance, charge fees
when students make purchases using their PINs, rather than with a signature -- a
fee not typically seen with traditional checking accounts.

And some may charge hefty overdraft fees for debit transactions -- that is, fees
charged for overdrawing the account, according to a study this year by the
Center for Responsible Lending.

That means it is important for students to clearly understand the terms of any
account they are offered and to make sure they are using it in a way that
minimizes fees, said Meredith Turner, chief governmental officer with the
California State Student Association. ''Read the fine print,'' she said. While
becoming acclimated to campus can be overwhelming at first, students should set
aside a few minutes to familiarize themselves with the rules of their bank
accounts. ''Take the time to ensure you're setting yourself up for financial
success while you're in school,'' she said.

Here are some questions and answers about student checking and credit cards:

â-  How can I avoid an account with excessive fees?

Ideally, students should consider how they want to receive financial aid, and
manage their personal funds, before arriving on campus, Ms. Turner said.

''If you have a bank account already, have your financial aid directly deposited
into your account,'' she said. More than half of new college students already
have bank accounts, according to estimates from the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau.

Failing that, look for an account with no monthly fee, no overdraft fees and a
widely available network of automatic teller machines. If there is only one
A.T.M. that is convenient, you will probably pay out-of-network fees to get your
money. Maura Dundon, senior policy counsel with the Center for Responsible
Lending, suggests looking at credit unions near campus, or even online-only bank
accounts, since they may offer lower fee structures.

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau offers a guide to choosing a student
account on its website.

â-  If I receive a debit card from my college, do I have to use it?

No, even if the card has your college logo on it. ''Just because it appears to
be affiliated with the school doesn't mean you have to use it,'' said Suzanne
Martindale, a lawyer with Consumers Union.

â-  Are new regulations for campus accounts in the works?

The Department of Education is expected to complete rules this fall governing
college-bank partnerships. The rules would, among other things, rein in
unreasonable fees on accounts used to distribute student aid. The rules won't
take effect, however, until the academic year that starts in the fall of 2016.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/05/your-money/for-college-students-choosing
-a-bank-account-can-be-a-minefield.html

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Colleges and universities have increasingly teamed with banks to
market special accounts and cards to students. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company

                              816 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                           December 22, 2009 Tuesday

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 748 words


One way to reduce the wear and tear of Christmas shopping at the mall is to give
books as presents. Books can be bought on the Internet, and they can be matched
to the person who receives them without having to know that person's
measurements.

Dick Morris' new book - "Catastrophe" - is an education in itself, on politics,
on economics and on foreign policy. It is a strong antidote to the pious
rhetoric and spin that come out of Washington and the media. Partly this is
because Dick Morris was once a Beltway insider - an adviser to President Bill
Clinton - who knows first-hand the ugly realities behind the pretty words that
politicians use and that much of the media repeat.

Morris' argument in "Catastrophe" - whose title tells us where he sees us
headed- is backed up by numerous hard facts and supported by an understanding of
history and economics. Most of all, it is supported by an understanding of
politics as it is, rather than the way it is depicted by politicians and the
media.

Dick Morris can also cut through a blizzard of political spin with a few plain
words. In describing Barack Obama's economic policies, Morris says simply:
"Curing the recession was not his end; it was his means to the end. The end was
bigger government." Obama's actions often make no sense if you believe Obama's
words, but they do make sense if you follow Dick Morris' analysis.

A revised edition of Angelo Codevilla's classic book, "The Character of
Nations," has been published this year, and it too is an education in itself.
"The Character of Nations" is less focussed on immediate domestic political
issues - though it does analyze the contrasting responses of the intelligentsia
to Sarah Palin and Barack Obama - but it is focussed more on the underlying
cultural developments that affect how nations work- or don't work.

The very title of "The Character of Nations" is a challenge to the prevailing
ideology that denies or downplays underlying differences among individuals,
groups and nations. There are many examples of these differences. For example,
Professor Codevilla says: "While it is unimaginable to do business in China
without paying bribes, to offer one in Japan is the greatest faux pas."

He sees the things that are valued differently in different cultures as the key
to everything from economic progress to personal freedom. But these values are
not set in stone - which means that countries which currently benefit from a
given set of values can lose those benefits when those values get lost.

Codevilla says: "The reason why inhabitants of the First World should keep the
Third World in mind is that habits prevalent in the countries that became known
as the Third World are a set of human possibilities that any people anywhere can
adopt at any time. As Argentina showed in the Twentieth Century, falling from
the First World to the Third can be easy and quick."

Another revised and very valuable book is "Choosing the Right College,"
published by the Intercollegiate Studies Institute. This latest edition is once
again by far the best college guide in America. Like many of us, it has put on
weight over the years and is now 1,084 pages long, but its weight is all muscle.

First of all, "Choosing the Right College" asks the right question: What is the
right college for you, not what is the "best" college by some formula for
ranking colleges and universities. In addition to a very thorough examination of
the academic realities at these institutions, it goes into the social
atmosphere, which can make or break the whole college experience in terms of
what is right for a particular student.

College is, after all, not just a school but a home, for four long years -
usually for people who are living away from home for the first time in their
lives. Being in the wrong place, in terms of neighbors and atmosphere, can ruin
the academic advantages of even the best institution. This book helps match
particular students with particular places, which is what is crucial.

My own books published this year include "The Housing Boom and Bust," which made
the New York Times best-seller list.

Another book of mine this year was the revised and enlarged edition of "Applied
Economics," which has a long chapter on the economics of medical care, including
the experience of other countries that have gone down the road to government
control of medicine. Their experience should be a warning to us all.

(Thomas Sowell is an economist and teacher. His syndicated column appears
Tuesdays.)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2009 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved

                              817 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                              May 1, 2007 Tuesday
                          City Edition 11:30pm Edition

Revival of the public school - Parents queue to get kids a spot

BYLINE: BRUCE MCDOUGALL

SECTION: LOCAL TABLE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 425  words


THE plummeting birth rate has stabilised in inner Sydney suburbs, helping to
produce a major revival in public school enrolments.

Parents are queuing to get their children into government schools where student
numbers have soared over the last five years.

Figures obtained by The Daily Telegraph show some public high schools have put
on hundreds of new enrolments and at least one has tripled its size.

The turnaround is not just in the inner city. Schools such as Matraville Sports
High in the east, Ryde Secondary College in the west and Riverside Girls High in
the south have cashed in on the boom.

As word of the revival spreads, financially well-off parents are pulling their
children out of the private system and sending them to public schools.

Other professional people with established careers living in expensive
inner-city areas are choosing government schools ahead of the high-fee private
colleges they would once automatically select.

Births in the inner city plunged from 7405 in 1971 to 3536 in 2001. But in 2005
they recovered slightly to 4091.

Department of Education and Training (DET) data shows that five years ago only
61 per cent of public primary students carried on to a government high school.

Now the proportion retained by the public system has increased to 85.6 per cent
in a wide area including Tempe, Leichhardt, Ashfield, Redfern and the CBD.

DET asset planning manager Doug White said yesterday that while the birth rate
had increased slightly, the real reason was the range of options offered at
public schools.

''These schools have been refashioned and restructured and have a lot to
offer,'' he said.

Sydney Secondary College principal Doreen Wilson said parents were queuing to
get into the Blackwattle Bay senior campus.

''The number one factor for us is that a lot of local people are now choosing
public over private ... and the average age of parents is older,'' she said.

''This year we have 34 students in Year 11 who had been in a private school in
Year 10 -- and we have a waiting list for next year.''

Year 12 student Peter Le, 17, said a major reason for the school's popularity
was the wide range of subject options. ''Many of the subjects are not offered at
other schools,'' he said.


----- High demand -----

Soaring public school enrolments: 2000-2006

* Matraville Sports High School: up from 303 to 360

* Sydney Secondary College (Balmain campus): 294 to 583

* Sydney Secondary College (Blackwattle Bay campus): up from 290 to 533

* Rose Bay Secondary College: up from 270 to 835

* Ryde Secondary College: up from 471 to 796

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              818 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            The National (Scotland)

                           November 28, 2017 Tuesday

Record number of Scots get places at university as country bucks UK trend

BYLINE: Kathleen Nutt

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 477 words


A RECORD number of Scottish students had their application to university
accepted, according to new official figures.

More than 36,500 people resident north of the Border gained a place at
institutions throughout the UK this academic year, an increase of more than 850
or 2.4 per cent - while all other UK nations experienced a fall.

The figures were released by the University and Colleges Admissions Service
(Ucas) in its first End of Cycle Report 2017, and showed accepted applications
to Scottish higher education institutions were up 1.7 per cent this year.

Higher Education Minister Shirley-Anne Somerville said: "It is great to see
Scotland is bucking the trend across the UK, with more of our prospective
students securing a place at university. This follows on from the record numbers
last year.

"It shows that our education system is supporting an increasing number of people
to access higher education - giving them the skills they need to succeed.

"This is also another record year for Scotland's universities, with the highest
ever number of applicants accepted to study here. It is testament to the fact
that Scotland remains a destination of choice for students, due in no small part
to the reputation for excellence that our institutions have worked hard to
achieve."

However, the figures also showed a decline of 4.4 per cent in applications from
EU nationals, with Brexit cited as the likely cause.

SNP MSP James Dornan, convener of Holyrood's education committee, said: "With
five Scottish universities ranked in the top 200 in the world, it's little
surprise that Scottish universities have welcomed the highest ever number of
applicants coming to study.

"However, after years of steady growth in the number of EU students choosing to
come and study in the UK, it is extremely worrying that fewer and fewer are
choosing UK universities since the Brexit vote last year.

"This is bad news for our universities and for the wider Scottish economy, which
is boosted by hundreds of millions of pounds generated by EU students each
year."

Research by the umbrella group Universities UK found EU students generated
£414.1 million for the Scottish economy in 2011-12, creating 3743 jobs.

The Ucas figures also revealed that despite a drop in the number of EU students,
the number of overseas student had risen.

Ucas said 2090 more international, non-EU students applied to start
undergraduate courses at UK institutions in 2017, an increase of 2.8 per cent on
last year.

Sarah Stevens, head of policy at the Russell Group, which represents 24 leading
universities, said: "It is a very positive message that so many talented
students from across the globe continue to want to come and study here,
attracted by the world-class teaching and research that our universities
provide.

"We will be closely monitoring the situation regarding applications from EU
countries."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              819 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 3, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Home safer than hospital for birth, mothers told;
Health chiefs issue definitive new guidance on labour Healthy women encouraged
to give birth at home

BYLINE: Kat Lay

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 645 words


It is safer for healthy women to give birth in a midwife-led unit or at home
than in hospital, according to new guidance from health officials.

The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Nice) said the latest
evidence showed that midwifeled care was safest for all women with
straightforward pregnancies.

For women who have already had at least one child, a well-planned home birth was
also safer than a traditional labour ward, the regulator added.

Choosing home birth or birth in a midwife-led unit meant that women were less
likely to undergo potentially risky surgical interventions, such as delivery by
forceps, caesarean section or episiotomy.

The likelihood of a baby having serious medical problems was the same in all
settings for women who had given birth to at least one child already. For
first-time mothers it was slightly higher for home births but there was no
difference between hospitals and midwife-led units.

Low-risk first-time mothers will now be told that birth in a midwife-led unit is
"particularly suitable" for them, and mothers who already have children will be
told that choosing either midwife care or a home birth would be equally
suitable.

Local health authorities should now ensure that all women have the choice to
give birth in hospital, a midwife unit, or their own homes, the regulator said,
meaning that thousands more babies could be born outside hospitals.

Midwife-led units, sometimes known as birth centres, are run by midwives without
the medical facilities of a hospital and can be either next to a main hospital
maternity unit or separate.

They were established in the 1990s.

According to the Royal College of Midwives, there are about 59 freestanding
midwife-led units in England and 79 alongside hospital maternity wards.

Mark Baker, Nice's clinical practice director, said: "Most women are healthy and
have straightforward pregnancies and births. Over the years, evidence has
emerged which shows that, for this group of women, giving birth in a midwife-led
unit instead of a traditional labour ward is a safe option.

"Research also shows that a home birth is generally safer than hospital for
pregnant women at low risk of complications who have given birth before ...
Although women with complicated pregnancies will still need a doctor, there is
no reason why women at low risk of complications during labour should not have
their baby in an environment in which they feel most comfortable."

Of the 700,000 babies born in England and Wales last year, 90 per cent were
delivered in hospital under the care of obstetricians. Many women are thought to
choose hospital delivery because epidurals are not available in midwife-led
units.

Nice denied that costs had anything to do with the guidance, although a 2012
study showed a home birth was almost £600 cheaper than the average £1,631 cost
of a birth in an obstetric unit. Births in a midwifery unit were about £200
cheaper than hospital births.

Alan Cameron, vice-president of clinical quality for the Royal College of
Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, said women choosing a midwife-led unit not
attached to a hospital should consider the time it might take them to get to a
doctor if anything went wrong.

Susan Bewley, professor of complex obstetrics at King's College London, who
chaired the group behind the recommendations, said: "Some women may prefer to
have their baby at home or in a midwife-led unit because they are generally
safer - that is their right and they should be supported. But if a woman would
prefer to have her baby in a hospital because it makes her feel 'safer', that is
also her right. Giving birth is a highly personal experience."

Despite a shortage of midwives, experts said that encouraging more women to use
midwifery units could ease pressures on the system by leading to fewer births
with surgical interventions that need more intense aftercare.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              820 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                            February 10, 2014 Monday
                              MON REGIONAL Edition

Colorado should dump newest standardized tests

BYLINE: Michael Mazenko

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 640 words


In Colorado's rush to judgment in an attempt to Race to the Top, it's time to
put PARCC testing in park.

Following seven other states that adopted Common Core standards, Colorado should
immediately withdraw from the Partnership for Assessment of Readiness for
College and Careers (PARCC) until the state has a chance to publicly review,
evaluate and critique Common Core standards and PARCC.

Currently, Colorado is contracted with PARCC for state testing in the spring of
2015. As an alternative, Colorado could put a moratorium on standardized
testing, or it could continue with its own test, the TCAP. If a test is deemed
necessary, and TCAP is considered insufficient, there is a better option. In
place of PARCC testing, Colorado should instead contract with ACT, whose new
Aspire program is aligned with state standards, as well as college readiness
measures, and is available for grades three through 11.

One of the primary problems with the PARCC test is the mystery and ambiguity of
both the organization and its assessments. PARCC is an unproven standardized
test created by a private consortium that has provided very little information
or transparency on what their tests will look like.

On the other hand, ACT is a familiar, trusted and time honored testing service
that has released as many sample items in the past six months as PARCC has
released in more than two years. ACT is a known entity with a proven track
record, and ACT's tests actually mean something to parents, students and,
perhaps most important, colleges.

From a purely financial standpoint, choosing ACT or even maintaining TCAP is
preferable to spending Colorado's tax money on tests created by a nebulous,
unproven organization. Currently, PARCC tests are estimated to cost roughly $30
per student, whereas ACT will do it for $20. And with PARCC, states still don't
really know what they're paying for.

The biggest problem with PARCC is most evident in the scant materials it has
released to the public. Having watched numerous presentations on Common Core and
PARCC, I've seen the same tired and limited sample questions again and again.
It's simply not enough information. And while people are fairly confident about
what established tests like ACT tell us, no one knows if PARCC questions or
scores mean anything at all.

While proponents argue that PARCC offers a more rigorous test of critical
thinking and application of knowledge, there is no comparison by which to draw
that conclusion.

An important consideration in choosing a testing program is to consider what
colleges expect. ACT is a classic benchmark for college readiness. In fact, ACT
scores are one of the primary measures Colorado uses to rate schools on college
preparation. And colleges actually trust and care what ACT results reveal.

An organization of Colorado moms who initiated a bill calling for a timeout on
Common Core and PARCC testing have reasonably questioned the validity of PARCC.
In a country where roughly 60 percent of adults had little to no understanding
of Common Core and PARCC as late as last September, it seems foolish to proceed
with implementation before the involved parties fully understand it.

Opposition to PARCC testing is not about opposing high standards. Many teachers,
parents and students accept the new Colorado Academic Standards and Common Core.
The standards are not the primary concern. The problem is a high stakes test by
an entity that has no track record, no transparency, and no connection to
Colorado.

The Colorado State Board of Education will soon need to make a decision about
renewing the contract with PARCC. Until we know more about what the full test
looks like and what the results actually mean, Colorado should not renew PARCC.

Michael Mazenko (mmazenko@gmail.com) teaches at Cherry Creek High School and
blogs at www.a teachers view.blogspot.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              821 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Standard

                           December 8, 2016 Thursday
                                 Print Edition

A world of opportunity awaits...

SECTION: ADVERTISING FEATURE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 345 words


A world of opportunity awaits Year 12 students as they close the secondary
school chapter of their lives to pursue tertiary education. However, with so
many options on offer, choosing a direction can seem daunting.

The University of Melbourne invites Year 12 students and their parents to the
historic Parkville campus on Wednesday 14 December for Course Information Day.
You can tour the campus and residential colleges, enjoy a free BBQ lunch, and
have all your questions answered through one-on-one advice with friendly staff.

If you can't attend in person, explore your options online on Thursday December
15 between 11am and 9pm. You can simply log on to receive personalised advice.
The University's Course Information Days are a great opportunity to learn more
about how the Melbourne Curriculum works.

At Melbourne, students begin with an undergraduate degree, choosing one or two
areas of specialisation and exploring other disciplines through 'breadth'
subjects from outside their chosen degree. They then have the option to
specialise further at the graduate level, often combining passions discovered
along the way.

Bachelor of Science and Access Melbourne student Scott Santarossa hopes to
become a dentist or orthodontist after graduation and is making the most of the
Melbourne Curriculum, having come from an underrepresented school.

"After having taken an Auslan (Australian Sign Language) subject as a breadth
option at the University of Melbourne, I hope to go on to study that further to
gain better proficiency in the language," said Scott.

"Ultimately, my dream career is to combine these two passions and become a
dentist who is accessible to the deaf community."

This month, an exhibition in Melbourne's CBD showcased some of the
world-changing research made possible by Melbourne. Now, the University invites
prospective students to start thinking about what you can make possible.

For more info go to www.cop.unimelb.edu.au or attend the course information day
on campus on December 14, between 10am to 2.30pm or online December 15 from 11am
to 9.00pm.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              822 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            August 27, 2011 Saturday

More opt for British varsities as pound slides

BYLINE: Eisen Teo

SECTION: SINGAPORE

LENGTH: 728 words


UNIVERSITIES in Britain are looking sexier to Singapore's degree seekers - not
least because of a 30 per cent 'discount' in school fees.

Back in 2007, it took around $3 to buy &pound1. Today, &pound1 costs less than
$2, more than 30 per cent less. The slide in the British pound against the
Singapore dollar over the last few years has given tertiary institutions there
an edge over their traditional competitors in the United States and Australia.

Over the same period, the number of Singaporean undergraduates and postgraduates
in Britain has risen by 30 per cent.

The dip in currency sealed the decision for people like 22-year-old Lu Zhengyou,
now a second-year law student at University College London. Although he
initially felt he could 'barely' afford an overseas education, the favourable
exchange rate ended up convincing him otherwise.

'Had the exchange rate been closer to $3 than $2 to &pound1, I might have needed
a lot more motivation,' he says.

According to Britain's Higher Education Statistics Agency, the number of
Singaporeans choosing Britain is rising. In the 2007/08 academic year, 3,205
Singaporean undergraduates and postgraduates enrolled in British universities.
The next academic year, the number grew to 3,515, and in 2009/10, it reached
4,125.

Never mind that the absolute cost of tuition and board has risen, and is at
least 21/2 times more than the cost of an undergraduate course in Singapore.

In an education budget guide compiled in January, JobsCentral - which runs
online education, scholarship and career portal BrightSparks - put the cost of
studying in Britain outside London at between $40,000 and $98,000 a year. The
figure varies according to course and daily expenses, and assumes the student
flies home during the summer holidays.

University education in Singapore costs $16,000 to $35,500 a year, according to
the guide.

Cambridge University second-year mathematics student Kenny Phua tells hopefuls
to prepare for annual increases in school fees too. The 23-year-old paid more
than &pound8,000 in fees for 2009/10, and the following year coughed up more
than &pound10,000. In 2011/12, he expects fees to rise another &pound1,000.

But these expenses have not dented demand. The Universities and Colleges
Admissions Service, the organisation managing applications to full-time British
undergraduate programmes, reported 1,586 Singapore applicants in 2007 and 2,884
last year - almost double in three years. Going by figures for the first six
months of this year, this is expected to grow another 16 per cent.

To reduce living expenses, students are choosing schools outside the capital.
Nottingham, Manchester and York have become popular, notes Mr Michael Cheong,
23, president of the United Kingdom Singapore Students' Council. The final-year
history student at the University of York says 'the cost of living in these
cities is not as prohibitively high as in London', where rent and meals can cost
up to 50 per cent more.

Students also like the lack of a language barrier and a simpler application
process than that of American universities. Shorter undergraduate courses too
allow them to obtain a master's degree in just four years.

Many law and medicine hopefuls who fail to land a coveted place in Singapore's
universities opt for British degrees because they are recognised here.
Singapore's legal system also mirrors that of Britain.

Surveys conducted by BrightSparks among A-level and International Baccalaureate
students over the last three years - polling between 1,500 and 2,300 each time -
show that Britain remains their top foreign destination for further studies,
ahead of the US and Australia.

Ms Huang Shao-Ning, deputy chief executive of JobsCentral Group, says students
think Britain is generally safer than the US.

'Economic problems in the US may also have turned off those planning to work
there after graduation,' she says.

Mr Kelly Koh, director of education at the British Council in Singapore, says
university fees and the cost of living are generally lower in Britain than in
the US and Australia.

He also describes the Singaporean student as a savvy consumer: 'He demands a
high standard of quality and prestige for the university of his choice. Yet he
recognises good value for money. A British education ticks all these boxes.'

eisenteo@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The cheaper pound has enhanced the pulling power of British
universities like Cambridge. -- PHOTO: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              823 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                             May 11, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Young people choose apprenticeship route as tuition fees rocket;
E YORKS: Pupils and employers see benefits of on-the-job training

BYLINE: Katie Knass

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 684 words


InShort Youngsters are opting to go for apprenticeships rather than go to
university.

Apprenticeships have surged in popularity as more and more pupils see it as a
solid route to employment and businesses are seeing increasing benefits.

WITH graduate unemployment at a high level and universities proposing to charge
up to £9,000 in tuition fees, more young people are choosing a different path in
life.

Daniel Garrod, 18, is one of those who is seeking to fulfil his dreams by
alternative routes.

The former Kelvin Hall School pupil, of west Hull, is in his first year as a
petrochemical, chemical and pharmaceutical operations apprentice with Hull
College.

He is spending his first year in Stallingborough, before hopefully embarking on
a lucrative career in the market.

He said: "The apprenticeship route was for me because I am getting hands-on
skills as well as technical skills and the theory behind it.

"Not only am I getting the skills and knowledge, but I'm being paid for it as
well."

Like many youngsters, Daniel was faced with the decision of whether he wanted to
carry on his education with A-Levels followed by a degree at university, or
doing other qualifications.

He said: "With the high tuition fees these days I opted out of that.

"Some of my friends are doing their A-Levels and some are planning to go to
university.

"But the more I looked into it, the more it did not seem sensible to me.

"I am picking up new skills all the time doing an apprenticeship.

"I chose this apprenticeship because the process industry is a very reputable
industry and energy is needed day in, day out by everybody."

Daniel is spending his first year at the Grimsby centre learning skills
including theory and practical.

He said: "Further down the line I would like to work for a reputable company and
there is no reason why not as long as I'm learning the skills and getting more
and more knowledge.

"The staff at Hull College are great and really helpful."

Derek Wills, vice-principal of the college, said: "Apprenticeships are a great
option as they offer many progression pathways.

"Choosing to study an apprenticeship instead of A-levels doesn't mean you can't
progress into higher education. Most colleges and universities accept Advanced
Apprenticeships as a means of entry as well as more traditional qualifications.
Likewise, apprenticeships also offer great routes into full time employment,
they allow individuals to keep their options open."

Throughout the Mail's 100 In 100 campaign, where we aim to place 100 apprentices
in 100 days, businesses have consistently said hiring apprentices is a great way
to develop people for the future.

This in turn helps businesses secure a supply of people with the skills and
qualities they need, which are often not available in the external job market.

And businesses across East Yorkshire are increasingly realising the benefits
that apprenticeships create, not only in terms of a highly skilled workforce,
but also by boosting productivity and staff retention.

Businesses keen to hear more about taking on an apprentice can contact the
National Apprenticeship Service (NAS) and mention the Mail's 100 In 100
campaign.

Staff from the NAS will provide advice and support as well as matching your
company up with the right recruit from the right provider.

Call 0800 150600 to find out more.

Building up knowledge and skills while earning APPRENTICES learn on the job,
building up knowledge and skills, gaining qualifications and earning money all
at the same time.

An apprentice will work towards a workbased qualification, such as a National
Vocational Qualification (NVQ) and other nationally recognised qualifications.

Employers all over the country recognise and value apprenticeships as they show
the individual has been trained in the skills they need.

Apprenticeships typically take between one and four years to complete, depending
on the type of apprenticeship and the level.

There is no set time to complete an apprenticeship as they vary widely in
content and size.

The length of time taken will depend on the ability of the individual apprentice
and the employer's requirements.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HANDS-ON SKILLS: Chemical engineering student Daniel Garrod, 18, at
Hull College, Hull city centre. Order prints from
www.thisisphotosales.co.uk/hullandeastriding or call 08444 060910.
Picture: Rob Stebbing.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDM


                         Copyright 2011 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved

                              824 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                              March 8, 2004 Monday

Reduce duplication of governmental services; Committee in Iowa House approves a
bill to make reorganization easier

BYLINE: TELEGRAPH HERALD EDITORIAL

SECTION: Front; Pg. a4

LENGTH: 496 words


Iowa is home to barely 1 percent of the U.S. population but more than 6 percent
of its governmental bodies. That needs to change.

Fortunately, the Iowa House State Government Committee unanimously approved
House Study Bill 567, which makes it easier for local governments to reorganize.

A similar measure introduced last year produced urban-rural friction in the
Legislature and suffered Gov. Tom Vilsack's veto. The current bill, now known as
House File 2404, addresses the governor's concerns.

Iowans simply can't afford so many layers of government and duplication of
services. This legislation would help.

In the meantime, and in anticipation of the bill's passage, local government
officials should start warming up to the idea of more consolidation and
cooperation.

Loras College regents , committed to avoiding another embarrassment, took extra
care in choosing the college's 26th president.

In mid-2002, the regents talked John Kerrigan into serving as interim president.
That bought the regents some time after Loras and Joseph Gower parted company
less than one year into his presidency.

Regents cannot be accused of rushing things or of choosing an unknown. They
hired veteran Loras administrator James Collins.

That people most familiar with Collins appear thrilled with the choice is good
news for the college and for the community.

Congress is going about the immense - and immensely difficult - task of creating
a national budget. How government spends its money - make that taxpayers' money
- should reflect our national priorities.

During his 2003 State of the Union Address, President Bush grandly called for a
huge investment of $$ @15 billion over five years to fight AIDS around the
world. That averages to $$ @3 billion per year; last year, Bush requested $$ @2
billion for that purpose.

This budget go-around, the Senate has chopped $$ @1.1 billion from the
president's budget request for international affairs, the area from which AIDS
relief would come. AIDS advocates in the capital fear that the House, where
Northeast Iowa representative Jim Nussle chairs the Budget Committee, will do
the same.

When it comes to fighting AIDS, will the federal government put its (our) money
where its mouth is?

Finally (and we do mean finally), Santa's elves in the past week removed the
"seasonal" decorations from downtown Dubuque.

The transformation occurred more than two months after the Big Day. Some
Dubuquers were beginning to wonder whether those wreaths with red bows would
remain affixed to light poles until the 2004 Christmas season.

However, does this mean that downtown visitors soon will be subjected to more of
those hideous advertising banners? Holiday wreaths on St. Patrick's Day would
have been a better option.

Editorials reflect the consensus of the Telegraph Herald Editorial Board: Brian
Cooper (chairman), Ken Brown, Libby Burkhart, Monty Gilles, Amy Gilligan and Jim
Normandin.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2004 Woodward Communications, Inc.

                              825 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Times (Kigali)

                               December 02, 2015

College Bound? Here Is What Should Inform Your Choice [opinion]

BYLINE: Julius Bizimungu

LENGTH: 739 words


College marks a special phase in life, and it is for this reason that both
students and parents ought to be cautious when choosing which higher learning
institution to enroll.

It should also be emphasised that students don't necessarily have to go to the
'most popular' institution to get a great education and a good job after
graduation. With more than 25 colleges, integrated polytechnic regional centres
and higher learning institutions in Rwanda, there are many options from which
college-bound students can choose. However, many tend to rely on image
recognition as a measure of a good college, rather than using other tools at
their disposal to find other institutions that may better fit a student's needs.
And normally, what is best for the student depends a lot on their personality
and academic goals.

Emmy Kangwenge, a first-year student of business administration at the College
of Business and Economics, Gikondo campus, says some of his colleagues were
influenced by the name, legacy and peer pressure in selecting the institution
where to pursue higher studies.

"Many are influenced by names and peers, but you need to be critical of your own
life; you have to take the right way to your destiny. A college determines your
career, so it has to be chosen very carefully," he says.

"Personally, I identified my abilities and talents first. Having done history,
economics and geography at high school, I loved business and economics.
Fortunately, I applied and was admitted at the College of Business and
Economics," Kangwege adds.

He, however, says there are other factors that he considered while choosing the
college.

"Apart from my personal abilities and aspirations, location of the college,
studying hours and financial factors, among others, also influenced my
decision," he says.

Paul Dusengimana, a resident of Mushubi village in Nyamagabe District, who helps
some children with school fees and other scholastic materials, says a parent is
always key in the choice of the college no matter what teachers and other
academic advisers offer.

"A young individual may still be clueless about professional development. Your
guidance and experience will be invaluable in this situation. Financial,
practical and academic factors should be considered in the selection of the
college. The most important thing to remember is that your child should be the
one making the decision. As a parent, you are responsible for making sure that
it is the right one. Being overly involved or adamant about the student's
opinions could lead to dissatisfaction later on," he noted.

Samueal Nkurunziza, the head teacher of Kagarama Secondary School in Kigali,
says the biggest part in selection process should be played by students and
teachers.

"To succeed in college, it is best to go in knowing what subjects or general
areas you are interested in pursuing. Students who perform best tend to be
go-getters who are not afraid to speak up and take advantage of the many
opportunities available," he noted

"The first step should be taken by both the teacher and student, simply because
they are always together. A good teacher, who also acts as an educational
adviser, knows very well what the student is interested in, and some students
know what they want to be in future. However, putting in consideration the
academic capacity of the student should count a lot in selecting a college," he
adds.

Nkurunziza says parents also have to participate in their children's growth.

"Unfortunately, we normally don't have career counsellors in schools, but we
always take time to talk to students and get to know what their interests and
academic goals are. Although some students come from illiterate families, there
is always a contribution a parent can make, especially at an early age," he
explains.

Oyiengo Karen, a lecturer in the department of humanities and languages at UR's
College of Education, believes that the popularity of a particular college
counts during the selection process.

"The popularity or how big the institution is may count in the choice of the
university. Big universities, for instance, offer a wide range of courses,
ranging from televised sporting events to countless degree programmes. They also
have well-stocked libraries, a wide range of student activities and research
facilities, which all attract students to them. With the diversity in such
institutions, students are assured of meeting their academic goals," she says.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              826 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 therecord.com

                            November 30, 2014 Sunday

Are financial planners a necessary part of your future? Depends who you ask

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 781 words


TORONTO - Good financial advice can be hard to find, but does every Canadian
really need to hire their own financial planner?

Everyone has some form of assets and liabilities, but it's the complexity of
their personal balance sheet that should be a determining factor, says Moshe
Milevsky, an associate professor in finance at the Schulich School of Business
at Toronto's York University.

If your financial situation is as simple as putting aside money for retirement
and aggressively paying off your mortgage, there's not necessarily a need to
bring in another party, he said.

However, for many Canadians, going solo on your financial future probably isn't
worth the risk, suggested Eric Kirzner, a professor of finance at the Rotman
School of Management in Toronto.

"I do like the idea of avoiding an adviser, but I'm still in the old-fashioned
camp of leaving that for a person who knows enough about finance," he said.

In an ideal world, every Canadian would take a college or university course to
broaden their knowledge of personal finance, Kirzner said.

"They would learn how to pick less-expensive investment products that do the
same things as other products," he said.

"They'd avoid certain types of investments that financial advisers love to sell
which are more in their interest than their client's interest."

For example, some exchange-traded funds cost less to operate than mutual funds
that do the same thing, Kirzner said. Some structured products with guarantees
can be replicated with stocks and treasury bills that have a combined lower cost
structure.

However, getting Canadians enthused about their finances is an uphill battle.

"A lot of people spend less time choosing a financial adviser than they do
researching the purchase of a new vehicle," said Greg Pollock, president and CEO
of Advocis, an organization that represents Canadian financial advisers and
planners.

"That new vehicle loses value when you drive it off the lot. When you're
choosing a financial adviser you're choosing someone to assist you with your
financial management for maybe the next 20 to 30 years."

Beginning the hunt for an adviser can be one of the hardest steps, but a little
preparation can go a long way.

Consider that anyone can label themselves a financial planner, which means that
paying attention to their credentials is essential. Not all advisers are alike
and, depending on their certification, they can offer a variety of services.

One of the most important designations to look for is CFP, or certified
financial planner, listed after their name which means they adhere to the
international standards that include continuing education to maintain their
certification.

Other designations recommended by Pollock include the chartered life underwriter
(CLU) for estate planning, certified health insurance specialist (CHS) and the
chartered financial consultant (CFC) which has advanced training in wealth
accumulation and retirement planning.

Advocis hosts a handy resource for Canadians looking to get some traction in
their hunt for an adviser: ouradviser.ca. The website covers many of the basic
questions that can get the wheels rolling, and provides search engine to gather
a list of advisers in your area.

Once you've selected a few candidates, Pollock suggests writing a list of
questions with your specific needs in mind.

Ask the advisers about their investment philosophies, how they perceive your
financial needs, and from there gauge whether you feel they're attuned to your
expectations. If their answers don't feel right to you, look for a different
person to work with.

"You should ask, as a client, how your financial adviser is paid," Pollock said.
"Not only that, it should be disclosed in writing."

Financial advisers generally make their money through either commissions or
hourly service rates. Both have their pros and cons, and depending on how much
money you're planning to invest, you might find that one of the options better
suits your goals.

For example, an adviser's flat fee may run $500 to $1,000 to craft a financial
plan or they may charge an hourly rate. However, if you're only investing
$10,000 it would probably make more sense to pay an annual fee of 1 per cent or
commission-based fees. If your assets are much higher then a flat fee might
sound like a more reasonable approach.

While commission-based advisers are commonplace, some have levelled criticism on
their approach, suggesting they come to their clients with a bias for certain
investment products with a higher payout.

Pollock suggests that isn't necessarily the case, and that a good financial
planner will take a more professional approach.

"There is room for a range of advisers out there," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Metroland Media Group Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              827 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Tasmanian Country (Australia)

                            January 25, 2013 Friday
                                  1 - Edition

Sneaky fee leap hits agri-study

BYLINE: CHRIS McLENNAN, ROGER HANSON

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 408 words


THE Federal Government has made it more expensive to study agricultural science
at a time the nation's leaders want more students to choose it as a career.

On January 1, the Government quietly introduced changes to HECS fees for science
and mathematics students at university.

The change effectively doubles the tertiary cost of choosing those subjects.

Numerous government inquiries have highlighted the national shortage of
agricultural science graduates as holding agriculture and agribusiness back.

About 800 graduates are being produced for more than 8000 jobs.

Before this year, the Government recognised science and mathematics as national
priorities which attracted a lower student contribution rate.

The Government paid the university the difference to make up the gap.

From January 1, all Commonwealth-supported students enrolled in mathematics and
science units of study will be charged at the Band 2 rate.

Students choosing to study agriculture are already charged at the Band 2 rate,
along with health, computing and engineering.

Based on 2012 rates, the maximum contribution per full-time student has
increased from $4520 to $8050.

* Meanwhile, with Tasmania facing labour shortages in some agricultural sectors,
the TFGA is offering to its members or their staff an opportunity to undertake a
heavily subsidised Certificate IV in Agribusiness.

The largely self-paced on-line course, expected to start in March, is designed
to fit in with a busy on-farm life.

Contact the TFGA or email mel.king@tfga.com.au for more information.
Applications close on February 1.

* The specialist CareerHarvest website is another useful tool for those
considering a career on the land.

Parliamentary Secretary for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, Sid Sidebottom,
who launched the revamped website recently, said it provides a hub for career
information across the food and fibre industries.

He says there is something for everyone, whether it's cutting-edge research and
development, horticulture, business and finance or running a vineyard.

CareerHarvest is operated by the Australian Council of Deans of Agriculture in
collaboration with agribusiness recruitment company Rimfire Resources and
website developer redhanded.

More than 250 career options are listed, with details of the qualifications
required, institutions where they can be gained, and first-hand accounts from
people already working in similar roles.

Visit the website at www. careerharvest.com.au

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: TSC


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              828 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          October 22, 2003, Wednesday

MONEY: STUDENTS FLY BACK TO NEST

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 239 words

HIGHLIGHT: SAVING: Raj


STUDENTS are leaving college with average debts of pounds 12,000. However, one
in five have found a way to reduce their money woes - they are choosing to study
close to home so that Mum and Dad can put them up instead.

And those that do go away to college tend to come back to live with their
parents when they've completed their course. Housebuilder David Wilson calls
them the "boomerang kids" because they leave, then bounce back.

A survey by the Britannia building society found that many parents are
encouraging their kids to stay with seven out of 10 families even considering a
re-mortgage to pay for the expansion of their homes to provide extra space for
them. Typical is Raj Mahal, 23, who is in his final year at Middlesex College.

The accounting student from Heston, West London, explained: "When choosing a
college I took into account whether it would be close enough to stay at home."

Raj owes only pounds 2,500 so far and after he graduates he plans to stay at
home until he can afford a place of his own.

MIRROR MONEY VERDICT: In the past, parents assumed their children would have
left home by their early 20s. This would let them to move to a smaller and
cheaper home as retirement approached.

Now we are starting families later we may have to consider remaining in bigger
homes for a lot longer. That means a larger mortgage which will make it harder
to set aside money for retirement.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              829 of 997 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 June 20, 2003

Cutting it

BYLINE: Guardian Reporter

LENGTH: 200 words


Clothes we spend hours choosing them and vast amounts of money on them but
Bridget Jackson spends her time painting them.

Now the Putney based artist is holding an exhibition of her latest works at The
Putney Arts Theatre.

A graduate of Goldsmiths College Bridget's pictures present clothes free of
their usual associations. Bridget aims to celebrate them in their own right no
bodies can be seen and they are sometimes hanging on faceless dummies. The
effects are sometimes unsettling as they gain attention for themselves rather
than as appendages and enhancements of would-be wearers.

Though the clothes themselves are ordinary garments they are by the nature of
their composition all individual. Go into any clothing store and there are rails
of identical clothes all Bridget Jackson's are one-off designs.

Born and bred in Putney Bridget attended Goldsmiths before taking up the post of
principal at Chelsea College Of Art and Design. Choosing early retirement in
1997 she has been hard at work in her Putney studio and this is her first
exhibition since her successful show at the Fashion Gallery at Oxford Circus two
years ago.

For more details see the listings.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              830 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                            June 7, 2006, Wednesday

W.Va. State Community & Technical College to conduct public programs

SECTION: METRO WEST PUTNAM; Pg. P9

LENGTH: 306 words


West Virginia State Community and Technical College in Institute will offer the
following public workshops and seminars:

June 7, 14, 21, 28: Beginner Watercolor Painting

Students need no previous experience in watercolor painting. Learn brush
strokes, basic color mixing, transferring an image and more.

6-8 p.m., $55

June 8: Small Business Start-Up:

You will investigate various sources of funding available for small business
owners, options for small business loans, information on how to prepare personal
financial records, etc. Topics include choosing a legal structure, tax
considerations, liability considerations and more.

9 a.m.-noon, $20

June 14-16: Grant Writing Workshop

The workshop agenda combines instruction and practical experiences to take you
step by step through all the stages of grant writing.

9 a.m.-4 p.m., Room 219, Cole Complex

June 14, 25, 26: Grantsmanship

This workshop agenda combines instruction and practical experiences to take you
step by step through all the stages of grant writing. Learn to write a full
proposal, including mission statements, objectives, methods, budget,
evaluations, activities, researching funding sources and building community
support. Bring a proposal idea - students will work at computers to develop a
proposal. Jan Hensley, grantsmanship certified instructor, will provide ample
resource materials and provide constructive critiques of your proposals

9 a.m.-4 p.m., Room 112, Cole Complex

June 22: Small Business Start-Up:

Topics include choosing a legal structure, tax considerations, liability
considerations and more.

1-4 p.m., $20

For further information on these classes or other non-credit classes offered by
the West Virginia State Community & Technical College, call (304) 766- 5113 or
register online at www.wvsctc.edu/ContEd.htm. You can also e-mail
workshops@wvsctc.edu to register.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Charleston Newspapers

                              831 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             May 13, 2015 Wednesday

Headline Here

BYLINE: Caroline Woollard

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 513 words


A campaign to cut down on unnecessary treatment on patients is being launched in
the UK this week.

The Choosing Wisely programme aims to encourage doctors to question whether
certain interventions have any real benefit to individual patients, and is being
led by the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges, which represents all 21 medical
royal colleges in the UK.

The initiative, which was started in the United States and Canada to tackle
over-diagnosis and the wasting of resources, has also been adopted in a number
of other countries, including Germany, Switzerland, Japan and the Netherlands.

It was set up in response to a "culture of 'more is better,' where the onus is
on doctors to 'do something' at each consultation," British health experts
supporting the programme wrote in the BMJ.

They said this had led to unbalanced decision making and patients, "sometimes
being offered treatments that have only minor benefit and minimal evidence
despite the potential for substantial harm and expense.

"This culture threatens the sustainability of high quality healthcare and stems
from defensive medicine, patient pressures, biased reporting in medical
journals, commercial conflicts of interest, and a lack of understanding of
health statistics and risk."

They add that the payment by results system of the NHS in England "in reality is
often a payment by activity and encourages providers to do more both in primary
and secondary care".

Their article highlights how a recent study revealed that when patients were
told the lack of prognostic benefit for angioplasty, only 46% elected to go
ahead with the procedure compared to 69% who were not explicitly given this
information.

The idea of the programme is that patients should also be encouraged to ask if
tests are really needed.

Participating organisations will be asked to identify tests or procedures
commonly used in their field, whose necessity should be questioned and whose
risks and benefits should be discussed with patients before using them.

These will be compiled into lists, and the top five interventions for each
speciality should not be used routinely or at all.

The BMJ piece cited a recent report by the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges,
which "argued that doctors have an ethical responsibility to reduce this wasted
use of clinical resource because, in a healthcare system with finite resources,
one doctor's waste is another patient's delay".

The academy said an audit will be carried out for each medical royal college and
faculty to identify tests which they believe are of questionable value. The
results will be published in the autumn and a public campaign will then be
launched to spread awareness amongst doctors and patients.

Its chairwoman, Professor Dame Sue Bailey, said: "The whole point of Choosing
Wisely is to encourage doctors to have conversations with their patients and
about the value of a treatment.

"It's not and will never be about refusing treatment or in any way jeopardising
safety. It's just about taking a grown-up approach to healthcare and being good
stewards of the resources we have."

ends

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              832 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           August 16, 2007, Thursday

Top of the class again

BYLINE: John O'Leary

SECTION: FEATURES; The Good University Guide 2008; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 797 words


Oxbridge leads the list, says JOHN O'LEARY -but there are some spectacular rises
in The Times league table this year

The leading universities in The Times league table are well established. Oxford
and Cambridge have practically monopolised the top two positions throughout the
15 years in which the guide has been published. This year Oxford tops the list
with the academic powerhouses of the University of London never far behind.

Only St Andrews interrupts the hegemony of the "golden triangle" of Oxbridge and
London this year -and King's College's spectacular rise into the Top Ten will be
some compensation for the capital's federal university. Warwick, Bristol and
Durham complete the Top Ten.

Other universities celebrating substantial rises this year include Exeter, which
enters the Top 20 for the first time; City University, which is up 17 places;
the University of the Arts London; and the new university of Bedfordshire, which
is judged on the performance of its predecessor institutions, Luton University
and the Bedford campus of De Montfort University.

There are many impressive performances, too, in the 32 subject tables this year.

Although Cambridge dominates, leading 21 of the tables, the exercise
demonstrates that there are pockets of excellence in a range of universities.
Sheffield, for example, tops the dentistry table, while Loughborough leads in
the portfolio category of hospitality, leisure, sport, recreation and tourism.

Even at some of the Top Ten universities, a few clearing places for 2007 will be
available this week, although Oxford and Cambridge never enter this round and
others prefer not to. Any vacancies that do become available will be in a
limited range of subjects, such as modern languages or engineering.

But there is no time to lose for those hoping to enter a leading universities in
2008. The deadline for applications to Oxford and Cambridge -and for degrees in
medicine, dentistry or veterinary science anywhere -is October 15.

Although prospective students have until mid-January to apply to the other
universities and colleges, admissions officers advise against leaving it to the
last moment. In theory, no one should be disadvantaged by applying after
Christmas. Applications are scrutinised as they come in and latecomers run the
risk of seeming less impressive than those already on a list of likely recruits.

At Oxford and Cambridge, applicants face the additional complication of choosing
a college, since they, rather than the university, select undergraduates. An
"open application" is possible at either, leaving admissions staff to allocate a
college that has fewer applications than the norm in any particular subject. But
this tends to rule out the most prestigious colleges and most schools prefer the
direct route.

The ancient universities try to play down the importance of choosing the "right"
college on their admissions websites. Apart from their size, there is little
difference between colleges, the universities insist, and invariably students
end up believing that their college is the best. For those who suspect that
there is a reason that most students apply to a single college, there is plenty
to go on in making a choice. The official prospectuses describe the individual
colleges, applications per place in each subject and the breakdown of state and
independent school admissions. There are also "alternative prospectuses",
written by students, on the universities' student union websites.

The pecking order of colleges for undergraduate courses is established by two
rankings: the Norrington Table, for Oxford, and the Tompkins Table, for
Cambridge, both of which rate colleges by the degree classifications of their
most recent graduates. This year (and last), Merton was top in Oxford and
Emmanuel in Cambridge.

Even Oxbridge colleges have good and bad years, so it is as well to look at
several years' results, but the leading colleges are fairly consistent. Emmanuel
has been top in five of the past six years, as has Merton. Christ's was second
in Cambridge this year and has been out of the top five only once since 2000.

Magdalen was this year's runner-up in Oxford, although St John's has the better
record throughout the current decade.

Like The Times league table, the Oxbridge rankings should be taken as an aid to
further research, rather than the last word in academic prestige. Taken together
with advice from teachers and, where possible, a visit to the chosen
institution, the rankings should help to narrow down the field.

Universities with no student satisfaction score have been awarded the average
score for all universities for this measure.

A full version of this table, plus 32 subject tables and individual university
profiles, is available at www.timesonline.co.uk/ gooduniversityguide

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              833 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                October 31, 2003

Help choosing the right college or uni

SECTION: News; Education; Colleges/Univs; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 278 words


Higher Education - You Choose is packed with information about getting into
university or college and what is on offer.  It appeals to school-leavers, their
parents and anyone thinking about becoming a mature student, and has been
compiled in conjunction with the Department for Education and Skills.

Divided into five sections, the guide deals with the pros and cons of going to
university, choosing the right course, the all-important UCAS form, the costs
involved and enrolling in later life.

Among the individuals featured is 22-year-old maths and physics graduate Daniel
O'Donovan, who admits to making mistakes both before, during and after his
three-years of study at the University of Warwick.

He said: "Though I've got a good degree, I wish I'd have thought a little more
about my choices.

"I've tended to go for the subjects I knew from school. But I've learnt there
are so many interesting and exciting courses you never hear about." The guide
includes quizzes, question-and-answer sessions and information panels, along
with a competition offering a first prize of £5,000 towards the winner's first
year at college.

Minister of State for Lifelong Learning Alan Johnson has written the foreword,
and has emphasised the importance of higher education.

He said: "This guide is intended to get you thinking about the benefits of
university, from the lifelong friendships to the boost in earnings." He has
attempted to respond to the recent outcry over university top-up fees, adding:
"The funding section of this supplement tells you how financial support for
students will change over the next few years - and which elements affect you."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2003 The Gloucester Citizen

                              834 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                            October 12, 2007 Friday

COLLEGE 101: WITH ALL THE CHANGE OF COLLEGE, DON'T FORGET TO GO TO CLASS

BYLINE: MAX SHILLER GENERATION NEXT

SECTION: TEEN PAGE; Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 572 words


Sometimes, in all the commotion that is made about going to college and how this
impacts our autonomy and social lives, we forget about what we're actually going
there for -- to get an education.

For this reason, I would like to take a respite from my discussions on living
independently and interacting with other students and focus on what it means to
take courses in college.

If there's been any lesson I've learned from choosing to attend the University
of Pennsylvania -- because of it's multitude of majors and emphasis on
interdisciplinary studies -- it's that you should choose courses which you find
interesting and which satisfy the requirements for what you might want you major
to be.

Obviously, this is easier said than done, but what I've found is that colleges
are generally very amenable to this way of thinking and try to make it as easy
for students as possible.

For instance, I'm considering majoring in economics, management, PPE (a combined
economics, philosophy and psychology program), history or some combination of
the four.

Consequently, this year I'll be taking micro- and macro- economics courses,
which satisfy economics, management and PPE credit requirements; a history of
economics course, which would go to both history and economics majors; and a
math course which would fulfill requirements of both an economics and management
majors.

Although this sounds complicated, all it really means is that I have the
opportunity to take these classes, all of which draw my interest, and I can
apply them to any number of majors that I wish to pursue.

Conversely, there are some courses, such as organic chemistry and Chinese that,
while interesting to some and necessary for those who wish to major in
particular areas, are also somewhat limiting as to what your major can be. And
while it's important that you take these classes if you're interested in these
subjects, you should also understand that sometimes your interests will change,
and it's a good idea to leave all your options open.

I would also like to take a moment to talk about how to go about finding and
choosing the best courses. I know that many students would think this is a
relatively easy task, especially considering the fact that most schools have a
thorough registration process where this is made relatively simple. However,
like me, some of you will find that this also is easier said than done.

During the pre-registration process I managed to lose my course book and was
somewhat left in the dark. While the Internet did contain some information, it
wasn't really what I was looking for.

It was during this time that I discovered how helpful college advisers could be.

I contacted my adviser, explained my dilemma, and asked for her help. She asked
me what I might want to study and what my major might be. I told her I was
interested in possibly studying history and economics and getting a dual degree
in the business school.

Within a day she replied to my e-mail with very comprehensive information as to
what classes I should take and how best to arrange my schedule.

With her help I was able to devise a schedule that not only meets many
requirements, but which I have very much enjoyed thus far.

It's important that incoming college students recognize what a valuable resource
college councilors can be.

Max Schiller is a 2007 graduate at Santa Fe High School. He now attends
University of Pennsylvania Contact him at schiller1018@yahoo.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 The New Mexican

                              835 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                            October 12, 2007 Friday

COLLEGE 101: WITH ALL THE CHANGE OF COLLEGE, DON'T FORGET TO GO TO CLASS

BYLINE: MAX SHILLER GENERATION NEXT

SECTION: TEEN PAGE; Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 572 words


Sometimes, in all the commotion that is made about going to college and how this
impacts our autonomy and social lives, we forget about what we're actually going
there for -- to get an education.

For this reason, I would like to take a respite from my discussions on living
independently and interacting with other students and focus on what it means to
take courses in college.

If there's been any lesson I've learned from choosing to attend the University
of Pennsylvania -- because of it's multitude of majors and emphasis on
interdisciplinary studies -- it's that you should choose courses which you find
interesting and which satisfy the requirements for what you might want you major
to be.

Obviously, this is easier said than done, but what I've found is that colleges
are generally very amenable to this way of thinking and try to make it as easy
for students as possible.

For instance, I'm considering majoring in economics, management, PPE (a combined
economics, philosophy and psychology program), history or some combination of
the four.

Consequently, this year I'll be taking micro- and macro- economics courses,
which satisfy economics, management and PPE credit requirements; a history of
economics course, which would go to both history and economics majors; and a
math course which would fulfill requirements of both an economics and management
majors.

Although this sounds complicated, all it really means is that I have the
opportunity to take these classes, all of which draw my interest, and I can
apply them to any number of majors that I wish to pursue.

Conversely, there are some courses, such as organic chemistry and Chinese that,
while interesting to some and necessary for those who wish to major in
particular areas, are also somewhat limiting as to what your major can be. And
while it's important that you take these classes if you're interested in these
subjects, you should also understand that sometimes your interests will change,
and it's a good idea to leave all your options open.

I would also like to take a moment to talk about how to go about finding and
choosing the best courses. I know that many students would think this is a
relatively easy task, especially considering the fact that most schools have a
thorough registration process where this is made relatively simple. However,
like me, some of you will find that this also is easier said than done.

During the pre-registration process I managed to lose my course book and was
somewhat left in the dark. While the Internet did contain some information, it
wasn't really what I was looking for.

It was during this time that I discovered how helpful college advisers could be.

I contacted my adviser, explained my dilemma, and asked for her help. She asked
me what I might want to study and what my major might be. I told her I was
interested in possibly studying history and economics and getting a dual degree
in the business school.

Within a day she replied to my e-mail with very comprehensive information as to
what classes I should take and how best to arrange my schedule.

With her help I was able to devise a schedule that not only meets many
requirements, but which I have very much enjoyed thus far.

It's important that incoming college students recognize what a valuable resource
college councilors can be.

Max Schiller is a 2007 graduate at Santa Fe High School. He now attends
University of Pennsylvania Contact him at schiller1018@yahoo.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 The New Mexican

                              836 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                          February 12, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Hold your tongue: Is a European language a third-level requirement?

BYLINE: AOIFE WALSH

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 502 words


One of the most common questions both students and parents have when considering
subject choice is whether or not a student must take a European language at
Leaving Certificate in order to progress to third level.

Many people wrongly believe that if a language is not chosen by students, they
will not be able to attend university or any third-level institution. However
this is not the case.

Some schools allow students not to take a language at Leaving Certificate, and
many students who do not enjoy languages or find them difficult are happy not to
choose them for Leaving Cert. However, the decision to drop a language should
not be taken lightly. Not having a language on your Leaving Certificate can
greatly impact on choices in the future.

For the majority of third-level institutions it is not necessary to have a
European language in order to meet the matriculation requirement. At Trinity
College Dublin students are required to pass English and another language and
Maths or Latin.

The matriculation requirements for DCU are Maths and English or Irish.
University Limerick requires students to have English, Maths and Irish or
another language. Therefore, if a student does not take a foreign language at
Leaving Certificate they should still meet the requirements for these
universities as long as they take Irish or have an official Irish exemption.

Institutes of Technology generally expect students to have passes in English and
MathS for matriculation so not choosing a language should have no impact on a
candidate's ability to attend one of these institutions. Post Leaving
Certificate (PLC) colleges also do not require students to have taken a
language.

The NUI universities, which include University College Cork (UCC), NUI Galway,
University College Dublin (UCD) and NUI Maynooth, all require students to have
passes at ordinary level English and Irish in order to matriculate.

However, students must also pass a third language to take courses in the Arts,
Human Science, Law, Social Science, Commerce, Medicine and Health Sciences and
some other degrees. Students are not required to pass a language for entry to
engineering or Agricultural Science.

The impact of all of the above for a student's course choices is, that while not
choosing a language will not affect entry to the majority of third-level
institutions, it will restrict the amount of courses they may choose from as
they will be excluded from the majority of courses in the four NUI universities.

If a student has an Irish exemption they may apply for an exemption from the
requirement to present Irish as a matriculation subject from their chosen
institution. They may also apply to NUI for an exemption from the requirement to
take a third language.

All Level 8 courses require students to achieve two higher level C3s at higher
level and four ordinary D3s. while Trinity College Dublin requires students to
achieve C3s at higher level and three ordinary D3s.

AOIFE WALSH IS A GUIDANCE COUNSELLOR AT MALAHIDE COMMUNITY SCHOOL, CO DUBLIN

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              837 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             June 17, 2014 Tuesday

Choosing science opens up a vast and exciting range of study and career options;

Common entry systems can turn a broad interest into specific study

BYLINE: Peter McGuire

SECTION: SPECIAL REPORTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 935 words


Fancy living in a cave, picking beetles off the wall, shivering in fear for your
life? That's where you'd be without science. There's no going back from science,
which has become central to the way we live our lives.

Science graduates are trained to think in an analytical, logical and structured
way. They focus on facts over speculation. Employers value science graduates
because of their ability to research and analyse information, to spot patterns
and trends, and present their findings in a disciplined manner. Being able to
think scientifically is also a useful skill for day-to-day life, while
well-trained science graduates are crucial for making informed decisions about
major public issues including climate change, food policy, and enterprise.

The natural sciences - what we usually think of as physics, chemistry, and
biology - are a very broad church, and students can take many different paths.
Geology, for instance, is nothing as snoozeworthy as the study of rocks: it is a
way of discovering the history of the Earth and its many cycles of life and
extinction. Genetics gives us an insight into the most complex code ever
written, the human genome. Pharmacology, which develops crucial medicines, is
now nothing less than our ability to stay alive. Then there's microbiology,
zoology, astronomy, theoretical physics, neurobiology.

But you don't need to worry about that just yet. Increasingly, third-level
institutions are moving towards general entry, with students choosing science
specialities after a year of studying several subjects.  Where to study science

Where to study very much depends on what you want to do, although Trinity
College has the best overall research profile, with a world-class reputation in
many areas, including immunology and nanoscience.

If you're broadly interested in science but have no idea whether you want to
study the human brain (neurobiology) the ocean (oceanography) or the universe
(astrophysics), it makes sense to choose a common entry course: students take
three or four subjects for the first two years, before choosing among 16
specialities for their last two years.

University College Dublin and the Dublin Institute of Technology offer general
entry courses, with an emphasis on physics, chemistry, biology and maths in the
first year, before students go on to specialise. If you're a bit more certain,
University College Cork has retained its direct entry system, with first years
courses including chemical sciences, physics and astrophysics, and genetics,
among other options; DCU offers both common entry and specialised entry science
courses.

Science is, of course, exceptionally broad and despite the tentative move
towards general entry, there are a huge number of more specialised interest
courses, many geared towards employment prospects.

Some of the more interesting scientific courses are the most revolutionary in
terms of how we understand ourselves and the world.

Nanotechnology - the science of the very tiny - is still in its infancy, but it
is also at the cutting edge of science and of increasing importance to how we
live our lives, sparking massive advances in medicine, materials, and
technology. Nanotechnology deals with atomic scales, as small as one-billionth
of a metre. Trinity College is leading the way here, offering a Nanoscience,
Physics & Chemistry of Advanced Materials degree course. DIT has a Science with
Nanotechnology course which includes an industrial work placement.

Genetics is nothing less than the code of life, providing an insight into how
human beings work. Courses are available at Trinity College, UCC, and DCU, with
graduates going on to work in public and private labs, research and development,
hospitals and medical diagnostics, clinical science and genetic counselling.

Ireland, as befits an Atlantic island, is also gaining a strong reputation for
marine science, with NUI Galway's Ryan Institute emerging as the top research
centre. The centre has two undergraduate courses: Marine Science and
Environmental Science. NUI Galway also offers a BSc in Earth and Ocean Sciences.
Career opportunities

A 2012 survey from the Higher Education Authority showed that 63 per cent of
science postgraduates were employed in Ireland and abroad, with 10 per cent in
further studies or training and 11 per cent out of work.

Science students who want to advance their career and earn decent money will
need to give serious thought to postgraduate study.

Industry is an obvious destination for science graduates, with a strong
biomedical cluster in Galway, a pharmaceutical industry with job opportunities
in Cork and Dublin, the food and drink industry, and high-tech manufacturing.
Opportunities in academia are increasingly limited, but commercial research and
development is growing. Regulation compliance and quality assurance, laboratory
work and clinical trials, and science teaching are some other routes for science
students. Environmental scientists have good employment opportunities in both
the public and private sectors.

Science degrees, however, are broadly useful and appreciated in any career that
requires rigorous and logical thinking, such as banking and finance, statistics,
telecoms and computing, and business.

Salary expectations

The average starting salary for a science graduate, according to gradireland, is
EUR 25,000.

nClinical

research officer: EUR 35,000- EUR 45,000 (irishjobs.ie)

nPharmacist in Dublin:

EUR 50,000 -EUR 70,000

(Morgan McKinley)

nMicrobiologist in Dublin: EUR 38,000-EUR 50,000 (Morgan McKinley)

nMedical laboratory scientist: EUR 30,000 -EUR 50,4000 (gradireland)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              838 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            May 12, 1999, Wednesday

SUCCESS IS IN STOW

BYLINE: Professor David W Smith

SECTION: Page 2 Stow

LENGTH: 662 words


STOW College is currently celebrating 65 years of excellence in education.

We enjoy a justifiably proud record with the wide range of full and part-time
courses open to both adults and school-leavers.

Equally, we take great satisfaction from the number of students who have
achieved success after choosing to study here.

We are glad that they embraced the new and exciting opportunities we offered -
and, importantly, will continue to expand and offer in the next millennium.

As we look ahead, Stow College and its talented staff have a spirited
determination to stay at the forefront of further education.

We want you to come here for the range of innovative courses which are
structured around the three academic schools within the college.

These are the School of Engineering, the School of Management and General
Education and the School of Science and Computing.

Our courses are a by-word for REAL training for today's employment market at
local, national and international level.

We have been providing training in the centre of Glasgow for more than six
decades, developing ever-stronger relationships with industry and with
employers.

We have built up a knowledge of what the jobs market is needing and demanding,
and our courses are developed to suit these criteria.

Every year we build on our experience and the success of our service to the
community.

A marvellous example of that is the opening later this year of Stow West, a
pounds 1.3 million centre of learning in the Maryhill area of Glasgow.

This new facility will enable the college to improve its scale and quality of
service to small and medium-sized enterprises.

It will also provide the opportunity to improve access to education in the area.

We have talked at length with the local community in the Maryhill area and their
support in the formation of plans for the new facility has proved invaluable.

Everyone connected with this exciting project is confident that it will be
extremely effective, and we are all committed to making it as successful as
possible.

Our links with Higher Education establishments to enable students to make a
smoother transition on a clear route from the college to university, if they so
wish, are stronger than ever.

As an Associate College of both Paisley and Glasgow Caledonian Universities, we
are in a sound position to offer numerous career progression paths to college
students.

Our educational and business links at inter-national level continue to flourish.

These extensive contacts give our students the opportunity to look out their
passports and take part in exchange programmes in Italy, France, Denmark and
Finland.

And, as this century heads towards its end, we are still top of the league when
it comes to offering the most extensive range of Access courses throughout the
West of Scotland.

Specifically designed for adults with no formal qualifications, these courses
GUARANTEE subsequent entry to HNC, HND and degree courses.

From this eight-page supplement, we hope that you will get some idea of how Stow
College works.

We provide what we call "real world" training in order to prepare you for work
in today's ever-changing employment market.

We appreciate that deciding on a course and a career can be difficult,
confusing, and perhaps even a little scary.

Because choosing a learning path to a career is one of the most important
decisions you will make, we want to assure you that we at Stow College are
prepared to give you all the help you will need in choosing the course that
suits you best.

And that vital assistance does not stop there.

When you're ready to leave, we will give you help in finding a place on a
unversity course or help in getting a job.

If you are interested - and I certainly hope you are - why not request a copy of
our new prospectus or just drop into the college to find out exactly what we can
do for you.

We really want YOU to be our next success story.


LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1999 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              839 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                 Hobart Mercury

                           November 5, 1992 Thursday

LENGTH: 120 words


Let unions chose federal award say colleges THE Secondary Colleges Staff
Association joined union outrage over the State Government's industrial agenda,
accusing the Liberal Party of being "most illiberal" when it came to industrial
relations.

The joint general secretary of the association, Ms Trish Moran, said workers
should have the option of choosing to be covered by a federal award in Tasmania.

"The Liberals claim their bill is about freedom of choice," she said. "Yet the
Deputy Premier opposes workers having the additional option of choosing to be
covered by a federal award.

"If the new system really is an improvment, why is the government worried about
federal award coverage being available?"

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 1992 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              840 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                             August 18, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

The call that changed everything for Patrick;
Choosing a smaller college helped me burst out of my shell, says Patrick

BYLINE: Claire McCormack

SECTION: GOING TO COLLEGE;FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 235 words


DURING his Leaving Cert year, Patrick Erhard studied hard in the hopes of
securing his first choice - a business course at a leading university.

When it didn't work out, he thought his dreams were lost. But 24 hours later, he
got a call that changed everything.

"The National College of Ireland (NCI) called and invited me to have a look
around," said Patrick, who had listed the college on his CAO form.

Patrick, whose mother Pearl was unwell at the time, felt reassured by the warmth
and positivity of NCI.

"I didn't know much about the college but I was really impressed by its close
community, worldly lecturers and its dedicated maths support section," he said.

Patrick (22) enrolled in a two-year higher certificate course in business, and
hasn't looked back.

"I've had work opportunities that I never expected so early in my career," said
Patrick, whose confidence also grew from joining the badminton, fashion and
lesbian, gay bisexual and transgender (LGBT) clubs.

On top of his academic commitments, Patrick is NCI Student Union Officer,
running its 23 clubs and societies.

"In school I was a very shy person, but choosing a smaller college made me burst
out of my shell, I would have been lost in a big university," said Patrick, who
won club person of the year.

Having received his cert, Patrick, from Clongriffin, Dublin has progressed into
second year on the human resource management degree.

*Claire McCormack

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Patrick Erhard, National College of Ireland in Dublin. PHOTO:ARTHUR
CARRON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              841 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                August 15, 2017
                                 First Edition

Revealed: A-level maths opens door to top universities;
EDUCATION

BYLINE: Richard Vaughan EDUCATION CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 382 words


Studying maths at A-level offers students an extra "premium", opening doors to
some of the UK's top universities, research has shown. The benefit of studying
maths at A-level was even observable for students applying for courses that were
not associated with the subject, such as modern languages or the humanities, the
study revealed.

State school students who had maths attended a university with a score on
average seven points higher in The Times Good University Guide than those who
did not study maths, it added.

A study by academic Catherine Dilnot, at London University's Institute of
Education, looked at the benefits of studying traditionally academic
"facilitating" subjects, such as science, mathematics, languages, history or
geography.

"Doing facilitating subjects, particularly maths, may be a sensible choice of
A-level for those aspiring to a high-ranking university, even if the content is
not required for the intended course," the report states.

"Care should be taken in choosing less suitable A-levels, even if they seem to
relate to the degree course eventually followed," it warns.

Poorer pupils often miss out on the best courses as they are less likely to
study facilitating subjects, opting instead to take A-levels in law, accounting
or business, believing them more relevant, it says.

But studying more academic subjects can make a significant difference to which
university they are accepted to. It shows that two students with similar
characteristics - one with three facilitating subjects and one with none - would
equate to a difference between attending Bristol University rather than
Leicester.

Studies show that vocational A-levels, such as law, business or media studies,
are disproportionately taken by students in further education and sixth-form
colleges, rather than private schools. "A student who aspires to a career in a
professional services firm might easily think that taking an A-level in law,
accounting or business would be helpful in achieving that goal.

"But it may be that choosing these subjects is actually unhelpful in highstatus
university admission," Ms Dilnot said.

While schools and colleges are able to give advice on degrees that have clear
entry requirements, it can be harder for courses that do not ask for specific
A-levels, the report says.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2017 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              842 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                             June 17, 2006 Saturday

Generation gap issues

LENGTH: 285  words


'We've observed that activities associated with fringe interests are often
misunderstood and thus face public resistance. Some of the negative perceptions
probably stem from the age-old misunderstanding between adults and youth, also
known as the generation gap. However, over time, many of these interests
actually gain public acceptance and mainstream interest, such as extreme sports
and hip-hop activities.'

MR SAMUEL TAN, 33, assistant director of programme development at the National
Youth Council

BROADENING HORIZONS'I do not think that the existence of youth sub-cultures is a
bad thing for Singapore on the whole. It challenges social boundaries, opens up
new creative spaces, builds communities by allowing us to dream of a broader
world.'

MR LIEW KAI KHIUN, 33, self-professed heavy metal fan and history of medicine
PhD student at University College of London

CHOOSING YOUR DESTINY

'Identity formation is central to sub-cultures. When people try to look and
behave a certain way, they are choosing an identity. You can't choose your
ethnicity, your class or your sex, but sub-cultures allow you to pick and choose
the identity most attractive to you. It gives you a sense of control over who
and what you are.'

DR TERENCE CHONG, 33, sociologist at the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies

A GROWING-UP PHASE'Youths like to express themselves differently from the
mainstream. It's a statement that they are independent characters and have their
own personality. Some get into sub-cultures as a cry for attention, others
because of peer pressure. but most just want to have fun. It is a phase of
growing up.'

MS ELIM CHEW, 39, founder and president of 77th Street and chairman of the
Singapore Street Festival

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              843 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                            August 26, 2017 Saturday
                               Advertiser Edition

Degree takes back seat to finding car

BYLINE: Melanie Burgess

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 470  words


AUSSIE university students spend more time choosing a car than selecting their
degree.

A study of 1000 students by Open Universities Australia, found a third of
students spent more time on selecting a set of wheels than study and 20 per cent
devoted more time on sourching holiday destinations.

And, one in 10 prioritised their next laptop or smart phone purchase. The survey
also revealed one in three students will not finish their course, with those
dropping out half-way costing themselves about $13,000.

Social analyst David Chalke said uni degrees had become so common, students lost
their motivation to get it right.

"The education system now says you have to go to university after school so it's
just another step on the ladder they have been on since they were five," he
said.

"About 50 per cent of under-25s still live at home with their parents so it's
even more like a continuation of school." Mr Chalke was not surprised students
took more care choosing a car as immediate costs seemed more real.

"It's about future long-term benefits and costs versus immediate gratification
and (costs)," he said.

"Would you prefer a doughnut or life insurance? Well, a doughnut." The research
also found many students changed their mind about what they wanted to study (40
per cent).

Other common reasons for quitting included the content not being what they
expected (32 per cent) and an inability to manage the workload (23 per cent).

OUA chief executive Paul Wappett said students often had an unrealistic picture
of the course they were pursuing or were pressured by others to make a certain
choice.

"The more information you build into your decision making, the more likely you
are to make a better decision," he said.

"It's the type of research we do when looking for a home or car or credit card
but don't seem to spend as much time doing in relation to education.

"For students who may never own a home, their degree is likely to be the single
biggest investment they will make in their life so it's worth putting in the
time and effort to make sure it's a good one." Student Sophie Corcoran, from
Angle Park, began degrees in medical science and architecture before switching
and completing a Bachelor of Arts.

"By the third time round, I had learnt my lesson. Instead of enrolling into a
specific course with a specific career outcome, I surrendered to the fact I
didn't yet know what I wanted to be," she said.

"While time and effort were undoubtedly wasted, my biggest regret is all the
emotional turmoil of the experience. Withdrawing ... can often feel like a
massive failure." Ms Corcoran, 25, admitted she spent longer deciding which car
to buy than which degrees to enrol in. "When you look for a car you know what to
look for and you make the decision objectively," she said.EXPLORE YOUR OPTIONS
IN OUR CAREERS LIFTOUT

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Advertiser


                   Copyright 2017 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              844 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                             August 19, 2007 Sunday
                                 First Edition

Your future's an open book;
TERTIARY STUDY

BYLINE: Joan-Maree Hargreaves

SECTION: SUPPLEMENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 673 words


WHICH area of study? Which college? Which university? Every year universities
across NSW and the ACT open their doors to thousands of prospective students and
parents to help them answer some of these questions and give them a taste of
life on campus.

"Students can look around, talk to teachers, get their questions answered by
people who know what the university is really like and tell you what the
websites don't," says Alex Cadick, event manager for the University of
Technology, Sydney.

Jenny Carlin, associate registrar, student recruitment and international at the
Australian National University, says: "It gives students the opportunity to see
what a lecture room looks like, what a lab is like, the union, other students -
current and prospective, and to come face to face with more than one or two
academics.

"Going on a tour of the campus is really important because choosing which
university to attend doesn't always come down to who has the best program."

"In Australia we're blessed with a high quality of education across the board.
Some students want the bustle of a city university, others are keen on open
spaces and more formal and informal areas."

Charles Sturt University has an "open day every day" policy, choosing not to
hold a one-day event.

"We decided a number of years ago to hold an open day every day, where we offer
campus tours to prospective students and their families all year round," CSU
marketing development manager Cheryl Howell says.

The tours are tailored, with arrangements made to speak to course co-ordinators
and current students in the prospective student's area of interest.

This is also encouraged at the traditional open days. Carlin says: "Current
students can give you a good idea of what the campus is really like."

Many open days have information specifically for parents of prospective
students.

Cadick says: "We encourage parents to attend to see what the university is like,
meet the lecturers, and give them peace of mind about where their child may be
studying for many years."

How many open days to attend is often a difficult decision. A number of
universities hold theirs at the same time, giving students the opportunity - or
difficulty - of visiting a number of campuses on the one day.

Carlin says: "It's really up to the student, how big and wide their choices are.
What is really important, and the biggest aim of these days, is to help students
make an informed decision."

THE GAP FITS: First-year arts student Courtney Tight, 20, says every young
person should take a gap year after the HSC before beginning their studies. "I'm
much more settled into uni than some of my friends," says Tight, who worked and
travelled in the UK before enrolling at the University of Sydney. With her
sights on an academic or teaching career, Tight was drawn to arts because it "it
allowed me to pick lots of different subjects". She found it daunting making
friends at first, especially because she lives off campus, but has joined
several societies and now loves the university environment.

UNI OPEN DAYS

* University of Western Sydney: Parramatta campus, today, 10am-2pm.

* Macquarie University: Saturday, September 1, 10am-4pm.

* University of Sydney: Sydney Uni LIVE! 2007, Saturday, August 25, 9.30am-4pm.

* University of NSW: Courses and Careers Day '07, Saturday, September 1,
9am-4pm.

* Australian Catholic University: North Sydney campus, Wednesday, August 22,
5pm-8pm; Strathfield campus, Saturday, September 15, 9am-4pm; Canberra campus,
Saturday, August 25, 9am-4pm.

* University of Canberra: Saturday, August 25, 9am-4pm.

* University of Newcastle: Port Macquarie TAFE, North Coast Institute, Saturday,
August 25, 10am-1pm; Newcastle Callaghan campus Saturday, September 8, 10am-3pm;
Central Coast Ourimbah campus, Saturday, September 15, 10am-3pm.

* University of Technology, Sydney: Broadway, Ultimo campus, Saturday, August
25, 9am-4pm; Kuring-gai campus information evening, Wednesday, September 5,
3pm-7pm.

* Charles Sturt University: Powerhouse Museum, Sydney, Saturday, August 25,
10am-4pm.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture: JANIE BARRETT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2007 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              845 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Natchez Democrat (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 27, 2011 Thursday

Absentee voting ongoing

BYLINE: Emily Lane, The Natchez Democrat, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 534 words


Oct. 27--By Emily lane

The Natchez Democrat

NATCHEZ -- Circuit Clerk Eddie Walker wants parents of college students to
remind their children to drop their civic duty into the closest mailbox on
campus.

Absentee voting has been ongoing for approximately a month, and college
students, residents with disabilities or those who will be out of town Nov. 8
have two weeks to cast a ballot via U.S. mail or at the circuit clerk's office.

Walker's office at the Adams County Courthouse will be during regular hours and
from 8 a.m. to noon Saturday and 8 a.m. to noon next

Saturday, Nov. 5., for walk-in absentee voting.

As of Wednesday afternoon, the clerk's office had sent out 318 ballots and
received 211, said Jacqulyn Williams, a deputy circuit clerk who handles
absentee voting.

Every voter in Mississippi has a chance to make a pick in nine statewide
contested races and vote on three ballot initiatives, which have potential to
change the state constitution.

Residents in District 2 and District 5 will also be choosing their Adams County
supervisor.

In the local race for District 2 supervisor, David Carter, an Independent, will
face Incumbent Henry Watts, a Democrat.

In District 5, Calvin "Jyrodd Buford" Butler, a Democrat, will face Grady B.
"Cookie" Wilson, a Republican.

Voters in senate District 37 will also be choosing a senator at the polls
between Incumbent Bob Dearing, a Democrat, and Melanie Sojourner, a Republican.

Statewide contested races include the following:

- Governor -- Phil Bryant, Republican; and Johnny L. Dupree, Democrat.

- Lieutenant governor -- Tate Reeves, Republican; and Tracella Lou O'Hara Hill,
Reform Party.

- Attorney General -- Incumbent Jim Hood, Democrat; and Steve Simpson,
Republican.

- State auditor -- Incumbent Stacey E. Pickering, Republican; and Ashley
Norwood, Reform Party.

- State treasurer -- Lynn Fitch, Republican; Connie Moran, Democrat; and Shawn
O'Hara, Reform Party.

- Commissioner of agriculture and commerce -- Joel Gill, Democrat; Cindy
Hyde-Smith, Republican; and Cathy L. Toole, Reform Party.

- Insurance commissioner -- Incumbent Mike Chaney, Republican; Louis Fondren,
Democrat; and Barbara Dale Washer, Reform Party.

- Public Service Commissioner, southern district -- Incumbent Leonard Bentz,
Republican; and Mike Collier, Democrat.

- Transportation commissioner, southern district -- Larry L. Albritton,
Democrat; and Tom King, Republican.

The three initiatives appearing on the Nov. 8 ballot address a requirement of
voter identification, the definition of when life begins and government's right
to seize private property for non-public use.

Voters can qualify for absentee voting if they cannot be in town on Election
Day, are older than 65 or if they are permanently or temporarily physically
disabled.

Only those absentee ballots cast at the circuit clerk's office or delivered by
U.S. mail to the circuit clerk's office by 5 p.m. Nov. 7 will be counted.

Further instructions and application requests for absentee voting can be
answered at the Adams County Circuit Clerk's office at 601-446-6326.

___ (c)2011 The Natchez Democrat (Natchez, Miss.) Visit The Natchez Democrat
(Natchez, Miss.) at www.natchezdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111027-YY-Absentee-voting-ongoing-1027-20111027

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YY


                      Copyright 2011 The Natchez Democrat

                              846 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      Sunday Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                             October 5, 2003 Sunday

Gaining experience avoids job loss

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 627

LENGTH: 157 words


THE only thing tougher than being in the job market is choosing a career that
will avoid being there.

Choosing a career is daunting for many young school leavers because the
possibilities are endless.

Axiom College's internship program offers students the best of both worlds --
formal education with real work experience, giving students an invaluable
insight to industry as well a competitive edge when applying for employment.

Axiom College offers a professional learning environment with courses designed
to offer flexibility and variety.

Courses which range from Certificate II to Diploma level are available in
business, information technology, financial services, hospitality, horticulture,
retail, transport and distribution.

Government Funded Traineeships may also be available for students currently
employed.

For a course information pack and internship brochure contact 3510 8000 or visit
www.axiomcollege.com.au.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: SML

                   Copyright 2003 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              847 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                                February 5, 2010

Beavers forge academy link-up with St Pauls

BYLINE: Stefan Rance

SECTION: SPORT FOOT HAMPTONANDRICHMOND

LENGTH: 450 words


Hampton & Richmond Borough will be hosting a football academy at St Paul's
College Sunbury, starting from September.

St Paul's is a high-performing academic school in Sunbury station.

The course entails eight to 10 hours weekly study for a sport leadership award
(NVQ level three - equivalent to two A level B passes), which would incorporate
the football coaching Uefa B licence part one award (FA level two) and, in
limited circumstances, would allow enough timetable space for two other courses
at A level/BTEC/NVQ or GCSE retakes.

The boys will receive at least six hours training a week from an A licence coach
on astro turf. They will compete in the midweek Conference league against
similar non-league and professional (non A teams) college teams.

The club will maintain an open entry level to their youth team outside of the
college offering, with boys coming in at least twice a week to train and play
under floodlights in the Ryman Youth League.

This will allow attendance at any college of their and their parents choosing.

The college course is ideal for boys who wish to follow a career in football
coaching, football leadership, sports science careers and sports teaching (links
will be sought with St Mary's Twickenham, for instance, for university study for
PE teaching and other physical education and sports science careers).

Club chairman Steve McPherson said: "This academy is great news for everyone at
the club. It will help us develop our own players for the future and ensure they
have a qualification for a career at the same time.

"I look forward to working closely with St Pauls and would like to thank Nick
Hornsey and Paul White for all their hard work in getting us to this stage."

An open evening will be held at Hampton & Richmond Borough FC, Beaver Close (off
Station Road), Hampton, Middlesex, TW12 2BT on Thursday, February 11 (7pm).

Every one is welcome to attend and representatives from Hampton & Richmond and
St Paul's will be there to give a presentation and answer any questions.

Register your interest by supplying a CV to pauljw@live.co.uk and fill in the
application form at st-pauls.surrey.sch.uk, or arrive at the open evening with
your CV or give your details on the night.

Boys with the most promising background will be offered a trial and then the
final cohort will be selected in the spring of 2010 after trials.

If you are only interested in the open entry (ie attend a college of your own
choosing and train one evening a week and a weekend morning and play for the
Ryman Youth League team) reply to pauljw@live.co.uk with your CV or details
indicating this intention.

If you can't make the open evening, call 07847 032 095 or 020 8947 2789 and
speak to Paul White.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              848 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             June 18, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Girl, 16, whose vision of peace stole limelight;
BELFAST ADDRESS

BYLINE: Harriet Alexander

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 527 words


THE stage was set for the meeting of the most powerful leaders in the world. But
yesterday the limelight was stolen by a shy teenager from Belfast, whose
selfpenned speech captured the imagination of the public.

"Good morning. My name is Hannah Nelson, I'm 16 years old, and I'm from
Belfast," she told 2,000 invited guests at the city's landmark Waterfront Hall.

"I've been thinking about an important question. How do you make peace permanent
in Northern Ireland?" Speaking confidently, despite her self-professed nerves,
Hannah welcomed the American president and his wife on their first visit to
Northern Ireland.

Barack and Michelle Obama had arrived in Belfast after a direct flight from
Maryland aboard Air Force One. The couple made a joint appearance at the city
centre auditorium, with Mrs Obama saying she had "never been more optimistic"
about the future generation. "Time and time again I have seen young people like
you choosing to work together, choosing to lift each other up, choosing to leave
behind the prejudices and the conflicts of the past," she said. "That's what's
so powerful about your generation. And that's why we're here today."

She went on to introduce "someone who accompanied me here today, as I let him
travel with me now and then".

But it was Hannah's speech that resonated the most in Belfast. Her message of
reconciliation, the future and peace - echoing Mr Obama's own much-cited themes
of hope and change - struck a chord with the audience.

The teenager entered an essay writing competition run by the US Consulate on a
break from studying for her GCSEs, completing and posting her entry in less than
a day. She had no idea what the prize was. Less than a week later, following a
call from the Consulate, she found herself rehearsing her speech on the same
podium that the president would use to deliver his address.

"I just realised everyone is the same as me, peace is something we need to
achieve in Northern Ireland," she said.

"It is achievable and I just want to live in a society where we are safe and can
be friends with everybody and there are no divisions. That's what I want so I
decided I would try to write something about that."

Her teacher at Methodist College in Belfast said she was overcome with pride at
her pupil's achievement, as was her mother, Frances. "I just wanted to cry my
eyes out," she said. "Out of a sense of pride and because of the journey she has
been on. She is actually quite a quiet child, who doesn't do public speaking.

"This has been overwhelming."

Her brother Matthew, 14, turned to their father and said: "Dad, Hannah's
trending on Twitter. She's number two in the UK." Jim Nelson said he wasn't sure
what that meant, but he knew his softspoken daughter had stolen the show. For
all her bravado, Hannah admitted that she had been plagued by nerves before her
speech - unable to sleep the night before. But she said that the President and
his wife had reassured her, giving her a hug and telling her how much they liked
her speech.

"I am very proud, that was totally incredible," said Carol Jackson, her
grandfather. "That sort of thing just doesn't happen. But it did."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hannah Nelson is congratulated by Michelle Obama at Waterfront Hall

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              849 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                      Journal Opinion (Bradford, Vermont)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                  June 6, 2012

The belt tightens for this years graduates

BYLINE: Journal Opinion staff

LENGTH: 631  words


ORFORD-The decision of what to do and where to go after graduating from high
school is never easy. But this year, school counselors agree, has been
particularly challenging as the thrill of college acceptance is too often
dampened by the reality of the expense.

Faced with the combination of rising college costs and shrinking aid, more and
more graduates are making other choices. In many cases, they have been accepted
at colleges they would have preferred but cannot afford to attend.

The counselors agree that middle class, average students are the hardest hit.
They are not getting the aid they need, and whatever financial aid packages they
may get now include less gift aid and more loans. Even very strong students have
to make the tough choice not to go to their first or even second choice school
because of the expense, said Thetford Academy counselor Mark Pichette.

Furthermore, home-state schools are strapped for funds and leave kids in debt.
New Hampshire State colleges are reeling from the legislature's decision to cut
state subsidies to higher education by 50%, said Woodsville High School
counselor Susan Clark.

Students are hesitant to take on big loans not knowing what jobs they may find
at the other end, said Rivendell Academy counselor Nancy Hall, noting that, at
the same time, there is a national push to encourage postsecondary education or
training.

Hall cited a senior who was accepted at a state college but has decided to take
community college classes for at least a year for financial reasons. Others who
were accepted by private colleges have decided on state colleges. And some have
run into financial walls instantly, losing their acceptance slots because they
could not come up with the required deposits in time.

Blue Mountain Union counselor Kasey Potter said quite a few students there were
opting to go into the workforce instead of school or to go to community colleges
.

Clark had similar observations. Beginning last year, she said, more students are
staying in state, looking at community college or joining the military. She
anticipated a future shortage in new teachers, asking how young people could go
into a field with starting salaries of $25,000 to $30,000 when they graduate
from state college with a $40,000 to $50,000 debt.

Pichette concurred that "the game changed," especially in the Northeast, last
year. There is a big push for kids to stay closer to home because private
institutions are not finding enough aid to bring their costs down, he said. He
added that he has been trying to keep kids as financially sound as possible, at
least as a start. Pointing out that graduate school is often necessary, he
recommends keeping the cost of four years of undergraduate and two years of
graduate education as close to the level of a four-year education as possible.

It seems as if going to college and having a campus experience is becoming a
luxury, said Hall. She likened choosing a college to buying a first car where
the choices might be a new Hummer or a second-hand Volkswagen. There used to be
colleges in both price ranges and in between, she said, but, increasingly, there
are no colleges at a reachable cost, like the VW.

Clark also said that, under the circumstances, students choosing community
colleges and work and staying at home are making wise choices, but noted that
they are missing out on the social growth that residential colleges provide
along with the academics. This is leading to a generation that continues to live
at home and loses the opportunity to learn to be independent, she said.

Meanwhile, Hall said, she has had "a particularly interesting year" in that six
or seven past RA graduates have sought her help to transfer to a college closer
to home or to apply to college after having worked for one or more years.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Accomplishment

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JOP

                      Copyright 2012 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                         Copyright 2012 Journal Opinion

                              850 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      August 18, 2016 Thursday 5:09 PM GMT

Record number of clearing courses available to A-level students;
Ucas website lists 41,000 courses with vacancies as eleventh-hour system of
university entry becomes more mainstream

BYLINE: Sally Weale Education correspondent

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 876 words


A record number of courses with vacancies at Britain's top universities,
including Bristol, Exeter and King's College London, have been thrown open to
students as part of the clearing process following A-level results.

There were 41,000 courses with vacancies listed on the Ucas clearing website on
Thursday afternoon - up from 37,000 at the same time last year.Empty spaces were
listed at almost every institution, including nearly all the leading Russell
Group universities.

Related:  Find a course through Clearing - and say the right things on the phone

With the cap on higher education numbers lifted, universities are battling to
attract the brightest and best students from a diminishing pool of 18-year-olds,
with unfilled places on prestigious courses from medicine to mathematics.

The university clearing service has transformed in recent years from the "last
chance saloon" of university admissions for students who have failed to achieve
their predicted grades, to a respected route into university, offering
competitive courses with the highest entry requirements.

St George's, a specialist medical and health sciences college that is part of
the University of London, had received more than 3,500 calls by lunchtime on
Thursday after it advertised vacancies for medicine via clearing.

Elsewhere, thousands of places were up for grabs in almost every possible
subject, with the Ucas website listing vacancies in 54 courses at Bristol, from
geophysics to geography; at Exeter there were 40 courses with vacancies,
including history and politics and international relations, while at King's
College London there were vacancies on 30 courses, including physics and
geography.

The University of Leeds listed vacancies on more than 1,000 courses, Liverpool
University had vacancies on 855 different courses; there were 455 at the
University of Essex, 306 at Coventry and 179 at York. Exact numbers of vacancies
on each course were not available.

As Thursdaywore on, the number of courses with vacancies began to decrease as
universities successfully filled empty places.

"The days of clearing being the bargain basement of university admissions are
long gone," said Helen Thorne, UCAS' director of external relations.

Last year a record 64,300 students found university places through clearing -
one in eight.

Related:  A-level results day 2016: UK students get their grades - as it
happened

A growing number of students are choosing to apply directly through clearing
rather than through the traditional admissions route, with the advantage that
they apply knowing their results, rather than dealing with the uncertainty of
lining up a firm offer and an insurance offer from different universities while
they await results day.

According to Ucas 15,000 students entered higher education by applying directly
to clearing last year. Others are choosing to "trade up" if they get better
results than expected.

By 4.30pm on Thursday here had been almost 236,000 course searches on the UCAS
website with economics, law, psychology, business and nursing the most
searched-for courses.

In addition there were 12,000 calls taken at UCAS - as well as tens of thousands
more to individual universities - plus 1.2 million log-ins to the UCAS tracking
site where students check to see if their place has been confirmed.

Helen Bower, assistant director for undergraduate recruitment at Northumbria
University, said: "It's been a really busy day so far at Northumbria and we've
got more than 120 people manning the phones to help students picking up their
results today.

"The clearing process has changed significantly in recent years and the option
to 'trade up' now gives students the opportunity to reconsider their original
choice if they have done better than expected in their exams."

Half of those using clearing will be placed in universities by the Monday after
A-level results day, according to Ucas. "The system works efficiently - with no
cap on numbers in the majority of HE courses in England, and a falling
population of young people, universities are very keen to recruit suitably
qualified students," a spokesperson said.

Greenwich University received more than 1,300 calls from potential applicants in
the first four hours after opening at 6am on Thursday, as well as talking to 300
students on the university website's live chat service and 200 more on Twitter.

Recruitment co-ordinator Sophi Marten said: "It has been a great start to
clearing. I am delighted that we have been able to offer places to many of our
early callers."

London South Bank University (LSBU) launched a 36-hour round-the-clock clearing
marathon, staffed by 120 phone operators and academics, to capture the maximum
number of potential students.

Sarah Gordon, LSBU's head of recruitment and admissions, said: "Clearing isn't
just for students receiving their A-level results, it's for anyone considering
starting university this autumn who has not yet secured a place.

"It's also vital that we dispel the myth that those entering university through
clearing are somehow disadvantaged," she added. "At LSBU the proportion of
students who achieve a 2:1 or above is actually marginally higher for those who
applied through clearing compared with those who did not."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2016 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              851 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Grand Forks Herald (North Dakota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 31, 2014 Thursday

EDITORIAL: UND should get after a new nickname

BYLINE: Grand Forks Herald

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 641 words


July 31--There's no need for UND to be shy at this point about choosing a new
nickname.

Just the opposite, in fact. There's every reason for the university to pick up
the pace -- to start naming people to committees, soliciting ideas from fans and
issuing press releases about the results.

But shy is how UND is choosing to proceed. That's shown by comments such as this
one, which Herald Staff Writer Anna Burleson quoted in her recent story on the
issue:

"We want to emphasize that the work of this group will be to establish a
process, not to select a new nickname or logo," said one administrator. And even
that tepid description sounds fiery next to this one, which another official
offered:

"We don't have a process yet, but what we're doing is preparing to create a
process."

In our view, this timidity on the part of UND's administration is a mistake. The
university has a lot to gain and not a whole lot to lose by striding confidently
toward its goal, which is to line up lots of nickname suggestions, choose the
most exciting one and then announce that choice with trumpets and confetti.

Here's why.

A lot to gain. In both the business and athletics of college sports -- in
retailing as well as recruiting, in other words -- branding counts. It matters.
It matters a lot.

And that means UND's lack of a powerful, inspiring and immediately recognizable
nickname for fans to rally around hurts the university.

Sorry, but the current "University of North Dakota" moniker just isn't enough.
Harvard has the most recognizable academic name on the planet; but Harvard
doesn't call its sports teams, "Harvard." They are the Harvard Crimson.

The Yale Bulldogs, University of Michigan Wolverines, Ohio State Buckeyes ...
the list goes on. In fact, it goes on forever, as virtually every other college
in America has a team nickname, regardless of how famous the institution is.

Those schools are on to something. And by the way, that's true for not only high
schools and colleges, but also the pros. With millions upon millions of dollars
at stake, does Boston call its baseball team, "Boston"? No. Since 1908, they've
been the Boston Red Sox, and they'll be the Boston Red Sox for the next 106
years, too.

When announcers at games say, "Here's your University of North Dakota," you can
almost feel the frustration as fans wait for the catchy nickname that never
follows. Among other losses, UND's lack of a nickname has to be hurting
non-Fighting Sioux merchandise sales -- and if you pressed the marketing team at
Ralph Engelstad Arena, we suspect they'd agree.

Not a whole lot to lose. We base this claim on one assertion and one fact. The
assertion: The only reason UND gave up its Fighting Sioux nickname is that it
was forced to do so. In other words, if the NCAA hadn't imposed sanctions, UND
still would be the Fighting Sioux, to the clear satisfaction of most people in
the state.

Now, the fact: When forced to choose between enduring the NCAA's sanctions or
giving up the nickname, North Dakotans chose to give up the nickname. And they
did so in the most decisive way possible: by a two-thirds majority in a
statewide vote.

That 2012 vote settled the issue. Clearly, losing the nickname wasn't North
Dakotans' first choice. But resisting the NCAA was futile, voters decided; and
with their supermajority vote, they signaled the state's broad willingness to
move on.

Today, UND should acknowledge its need for a new nickname and then find one --
and not on tiptoes. The university needs a nickname and symbol to rally around.
Let the search go forward with confidence and drive, lest UND athletes learn the
wrong lesson and play with meekness and timidity under their eventual banner.

___ (c)2014 the Grand Forks Herald (Grand Forks, N.D.) Visit the Grand Forks
Herald (Grand Forks, N.D.) at www.grandforksherald.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140731-GF-EDITORIAL-UND-should-get-after-a-new-nickname-0731-20140731

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GF


                       Copyright 2014 Grand Forks Herald

                              852 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Sunday Telegraph (Australia)

                            October 23, 2011 Sunday
                               1 - State Edition

Health fear push for a as women free birth

BYLINE: ROSIE SQUIRES

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 603  words


IT'S been dubbed free-birthing -- the growing trend of women choosing to deliver
their baby at home without any medical assistance.

But obstetricians warn the practice is too risky and can quickly turn deadly for
the mother or baby.

University of Western Sydney research presented at the Australian College of
Midwives conference in Sydney last week revealed more women were choosing to
give birth unassisted.

PhD student and midwife Melanie Jackson, who is compiling the data, said many
women were disappointed with hospital care and preferred to ``stay in control''.

``Free-birthing exists and it is quite prolific when you get into the
communities. I have found many reasons why a woman would decide to birth
unassisted,'' she said.

``Some women told me they couldn't find a midwife they were happy with. Others
feared they would lose control of the birth in a hospital and didn't want to
have any medications, and for others their choice was rooted in their desire to
do it alone.''

Ms Jackson said it was important the women who choose free birth are informed of
risks and have access to a nearby hospital.

Professor Hannah Dahlen of the Australian College of Midwives said she supported
women having a choice of where they give birth, but ultimately the best birth
was with a trained, competent and caring health professional.

She said there was no data yet available on the number of free births taking
place in Australia each year, but anecdotal evidence suggested the trend was
taking off.

``Free births are booming in Australia,'' she said.

``It's definitely increasing, there are websites and a real movement behind it.

``We demonise these free-birthing women, but what we are finding in this study
is there is a lot of trauma and, sadly, much of it caused by our maternity
system.''

Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists
head Dr Rupert Sherwood said he opposed free births as they were unnecessarily
risky.

``If people do choose to home birth or free birth we feel they should be fully
informed of the risks,'' he said.

``We support birth in a setting where there is access to emergency care. This
includes birth centres or midwife-led centres within hospitals. We recognise
that things go wrong in childbirth very fast, they go wrong unexpectedly and . .
. can be disastrous to the point of damage or even death for mother and baby.''

Legislation requiring midwives to have indemnity insurance had forced many
workers out of business.

``There is a witch-hunt on at the moment to find midwives,'' Professor Dahlen
said.

``Now we have fewer and fewer midwives and women have no options left, so they
are turning to free births and doulas for support.''

A doula is a supportive carer who is not medically trained.

Professor Dahlen said more women were leaving the maternity system after past
traumatic births and would not consider returning to hospital.

``They are turning to free birthing if they can't access a midwife,'' she said.
``We have had women say essentially `I would rather die than go back into that
place'.''

Women had also complained hospital staff don't listen, force intimate
examinations or push medications that are unwanted.

``We have to have a very hard look at a maternity system that embraces all the
ways and means a woman would like to give birth,'' she said.

ONLINEWOULD YOU RISK A BIRTH AT HOME WITHOUT ANY MEDICAL ASSISTANCE?

thetelegraph.com.au

BABY BLUES

283,119 babies born in hospital

2182 fetal deaths in hospital or birth centres

6460 babies born in birth centres

1000 planned home births

6 fetal deaths at home births

SOURCE: AUSTRALIA'S MOTHERS AND BABIES 2008 REPORT

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STE


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              853 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick)

                            January 11, 2010 Monday

Planning is key for UNBSJ; Vital Signs: Enrolment at local university has taken
a hit in recent years but administrators feel they're making strides

BYLINE: SANDRA DAVIS Telegraph-Journal

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. C4

LENGTH: 482  words


UNBSJ is starting to recover from the hangover caused by a controversial
post-secondary report released in 2007 that recommended it merge with the Saint
John campus of New Brunswick Community College to form a trades- oriented
polytechnic.

Enrolment numbers - while not quite up to where they were in 2003/2004 - are
gaining ground, says John Johnson, the acting assistant vice-president.

Overall enrolment as of Oct. 1 is up 2.9 per cent. There is a five per cent
increase in new high school students; new transfer students and re-admits are up
over eight per cent; and adult learners are up 22 per cent.

"From a university perspective, that's not our final enrolment, because people
are still paying," Johnson said.

Johnson was reacting to the Greater Saint John Community Foundation's annual
Vital Signs report, a community checkup conducted by more than a dozen community
foundations across Canada to measure each city's vitality, identify trends and
assign grades in at least 10 areas critical to quality of life. Locally, the
report is a project of the Greater Saint John Community Foundation.

The report tracks UNBSJ's enrolment from 2003/2004 - when it was 3,118. This
year so far, the head count is 2,669, up from last year's 2,616, but down from
2007/2008 enrolment of 2,780.

"2007/2008 was a lousy year," Johnson said, referring to the kerfuffle
surrounding the controversial report and the lagging economy.

The report's recommendations prompted demonstrations across the province, and
were not introduced in the end.

"Last year's recruiting which results in this year's work," Johnson said. "We
had to do some new marketing initiatives to get people back and we've actually
made great strides. Last year we were kind of flat, but this year, we're up."

Johnson believes that, despite a decline in students, UNBSJ will be able to hold
the line on enrolment next year but realizes that the university will have to
plan ahead to keep numbers up.

"It's competitive and we have to get one student at a time."

Diane Burt, principal of the Saint John campus, New Brunswick Community College,
says the college has to concentrate on creating a better awareness of what they
do to attract more students.

While enrolment is slightly down, she believes the decline is not significant.

Right now, there are 1,093 students enrolled in regular programs and they're
still coming in, she said. That's up from last year, but New Brunswick continues
to be an anomaly in terms of people between the ages of 18 and 24 choosing
university over college, she said.

"There's a much higher percentage of students coming out of high school and
going into university than any other province in Canada," she said.

"We think we've got an untapped market here. There are a lot of students who
haven't been choosing college."

The Vital Signs survey is posted on the community foundation's website at
www.saint-john-foundation.nb.ca

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2010 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                               Publications Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              854 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                             March 27, 2011 Sunday

Region needs more science graduates

BYLINE: Rania Moussly Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 316 words


Dubai The Middle Eastern region needs to produce more graduates choosing to
major in scientific disciplines, like engineering, to ensure the successful
development of regional, knowledge-based economies.

This notion was presented by John Weidman, Professor of Education and Sociology
at the University of Pittsburgh at the recent Gulf Comparative Education Society
Symposium in Ras Al Khaimah.

He referred to a recently published World Bank report on Middle Eastern and
North African (Mena) development in education reform.

"Many countries in the region believe science to be very important for national
development," said Weidman.

"However, people argue there is no incentive for people to major in science
because government jobs don't require scientific knowledge and expertise."

He added that in some countries in the region 75 per cent of students choose to
major in humanities while only 25 per cent choose science.

"In fact the overall average for students in the region choosing science is
about 25 per cent ranging from 10 per cent in Egypt to 21 per cent in Tunisia."

Weidman compared the Mena figures to those of China, where he reported 46 per
cent of undergraduate students major in science and engineering.

"Science is important for the Mena region to build various and specific types of
technology and develop patents in areas like water," he said. "The various
processes for desalination for example are very crucial for the existence of
this region." He added that the potential variations for further development of
existing solar technologies could all stand to be initiated indigenously if more
students majored in the sciences.

"Saudi Arabia is a good example because there are virtually no women majoring in
engineering," said Weidman. "People complain about preparing educated people for
national development but if there are no women engineers you've squandered half
the population."

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2011 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              855 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            January 29, 2008 Tuesday
                                   F3 Edition

Parents can have input, but student picks college

BYLINE: Sammi King

SECTION: NEIGHBOR; Batavia; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 616 words


When my first son chose his college, I used the two to five rule. He had to go
at least two hours away and he couldn't go more than five so that we would be
able to get to the college quickly in an emergency.

He visited five schools and knew almost immediately which one was right for him.
He wanted a small school with a good music program. He ended up at Millikin
University and two years in, it seems to be a good fit.

My younger son looked at 11 schools, applied to eight. Now he is in the process
of narrowing that decision down to one.

At a recent dinner at the high school, we sat with parents of a senior who was
also in the process of trying to decide on what college to attend. The family
had done all of the college trips and the scholarship offers were starting to
come in.

In an effort to make their son realize the daunting expense of college, the
father put together a spread sheet that compared the various schools, complete
with the cost of tuition, room and board, books and travel expenses. He outlined
how much they could afford to pay and how much their son was responsible for.

They thought that seeing how much he would owe would be a good incentive to pick
a less expensive school. I was pretty doggoned impressed with their effort.
There was only one problem.

The school that they wanted their son to go to was not the school that their son
wanted.

The same thing happened in our own household. My son wants to go into oncology
and do stem cell research. His top two schools are expensive, out of state and
offer very little scholarship help. My husband wants him to stay in state so
that my son's portion of the college expenses aren't so high.

I'm in the middle. I think it is great that my son wants to give back by
choosing a career that will help so many. I also know that most college kids
change their major three times. So is it right to pick a school based entirely
on a course of study?

According to Heather McKane, dean of student financial services at Aurora
University, sometimes following a specific course of study is a good thing.

"We do find that there are some students who come to college knowing exactly
what they want to study and are very focused," she said. "First and foremost,
the decision should be based on where the student feels comfortable. They need
to decide what feels like home to them."

What happens when a student likes one school and the parents like another?

"I can just say from my own experience here at Aurora University that often when
we are the parents' first choice and the students' second or third choice, the
student ends up transferring." said McKane. "The parents need to be involved in
the college selection but in the end it is about the student."

McKane also believes that parents need to involve their students in the
financial process.

"I recommend that the students fill out the Free Application For Federal Student
Aid (FAFSA) form with their parents so that they can see the financial situation
of the family," she said.

McKane knows that choosing a college is a big decision and finding the money to
support that decision is a big responsibility for the entire family.

"At Aurora University we keep a scholarship binder available so that the
students can continue to do scholarship searches as upperclassmen," she added.
"We also offer on campus jobs to help out."

McKane pointed out that it is important to work with the college to find a
payment plan that works.

"Some schools will offer 10 month payment plans to spread the payments over a
longer period of time," she said.

We all remember college as being the best years of our lives. Luckily, we forget
the pain of paying off the loans for those college years.

king60510@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              856 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           September 3, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Do your homework and choose the university course that is rightfor you ;
for you

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 677 words


CHOOSING which university or college to go to can be a life-changing decision.
Do as much research as possible so that you choose the right course for the
right reasons.

You can apply to any course which interests you, but consider the entry
requirements first. Some courses require particular qualifications, others
require an admissions test.

There are lots of universities and colleges to choose from, so think about where
you'll be happy. Would you like to be close to home or live in a different part
of the country? Think about what you want - each place and its nearby town will
offer something different.

Whatever your criteria, research the institution and its location before
applying. Speak to friends, family, advisers and the institution itself for
advice, but make sure the final decision is yours.

There are so many choices that it's hard to know where to start. Make sure
you're choosing a course for the right reasons - are you going to be happy
studying the course? If you have a career in mind, do you need a specific
qualification? Deciding what to study requires lots of research, so take time to
look at what's available.

Each university or college has different requirements that their students need
to meet before they can start a course. These can be particular exam grades or
Tariff points, or be non-academic, like having a health check.

Minimum entry requirements are a guide to the level of education required to
study on each course. The universities or colleges you apply to will decide if
your qualifications meet these requirements when they consider your application.
Remember that a university's or college's decision is likely to be based on your
overall suitability for the course as well as whether you meet the minimum entry
requirements.

Entry profiles help you decide which universities or colleges and which courses
to apply to. Many courses with the same title are actually very different in
terms of content and study methods, so entry profiles help you sort out which
will suit you best.

They provide details about courses, the university or college offering each
course, entry qualifications, selection criteria and the admissions policy. They
are compiled by staff at the university or college who understand what you need
to know about their courses and what kind of personal qualities, interests and
experiences it will be helpful for you to have, so you can be successful on the
course you choose.

There are three application deadlines for courses through UCAS - October,
January and March - it is important to check the deadline for your chosen
course(s). If you are applying from the UK, you should submit your application
by the relevant deadline below. ¦ October - application deadline for the receipt
at UCAS of applications for all medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine and
veterinary science courses, and for all courses at the universities of Oxford
and Cambridge.

January - application deadline for the receipt at UCAS of applications for all
courses except those listed above with a October deadline, and art and design
courses with a March 24 deadline. ¦ March - application deadline for the receipt
at UCAS of applications for art and design courses except those listed with a
January deadline.

You are strongly recommended to give yourself sufficient time to complete your
application, including your reference (if necessary), pay your application fee
and resolve any queries so that it can be sent to us before the relevant
deadline passes.

Applications received by the above deadlines are guaranteed to be considered by
the universities and colleges. Applications received at UCAS after the deadlines
will only be considered by the universities and colleges if they still have
vacancies for the course(s) you have selected.

Once UCAS have sent your application to your chosen universities and colleges,
you wait to hear from them. The time it takes for decisions to be made varies
but even if you have applied very early, universities and colleges have until
early May to decide.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ¦ There are lots of universities and colleges to choose from so think
about where you'll be happy ¦ Students working in the library PICTURES:
University of Wales Trinity St David

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              857 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Corkman (Ireland)

                                 April 30, 2009

Choosing the right path

SECTION: GENERAL NEWS

LENGTH: 882 words


Can you guess what it is' It's very simple: doing nothing at all. I know, as a
vet in practice, that seven out of ten of my patients will get better if nothing
at all is done to help them. Interestingly, the same statistic probably applies
to humans who develop symptoms of illness: when we go to a doctor, we don't
always need treatment. Often the doctor will simply reassure us that nothing
very serious is wrong with us and that we will get better in due course, simply
from the natural healing power of our bodies.

Of course the difficult bit for pet-owners and human patients is making the
judgment that separates the 70% of cases where nothing needs to be done from the
30% where physical treatment is needed to solve the problem. That's why people
pay for a 'professional consultation', and that's what vets and doctors learn to
do during their years at university. The treatment of 'doing nothing' is known
in the trade as 'masterly inactivity' or 'supervised neglect'.

Human patients and pet owners sometimes don't like the idea of 'doing nothing'.
They've paid the doctor or vet and surely they should get something in return
rather than just a few words of advice' In James Herriot's day, vets used to
make up special coloured solutions for injection, containing a harmless but
inactive substance, so that owners felt that their pet had been 'treated'.
Nowadays, such an approach would be seen to be deceitful, and instead, honesty
is the way to go, with pet owners being encouraged to trust the opinion of their
vet that it's fine just to let nature take care of the problem.

When treatment is needed, do you ever wonder how the vet chooses the best
approach for a sick animal' In most cases, a vet's mental knowledge bank starts
with information learned in veterinary college, supplemented by years attending
continuing education lectures and conferences, as well as reading text books and
journals. Add in the years of experience witnessing the effects of different
treatments, and isn't the final result likely to be a treatment that's going to
be appropriate?

This has been the received wisdom for many years but it's now under question.
The latest buzzphrase in the veterinary world, as in the human medical world, is
that we should all be practicing a new way of choosing the best treatment, known
as Evidence Based Medicine (EBM).

EBM demands that vets should take a strictly scientific approach to choosing
treatment rather than just depending on information remembered from previous
years and supplemented by experience. There's an argument that whilst the old
way does often produce a good result, a better result may be achieved by taking
a different approach.

Vets are now encouraged to disregard the use of treatments that are used
'because they've always been used and they seem to work'. Instead, we're asked
to seek out scientific evidence that a treatment is effective. How do we do
this' Evidence-based medicine uses techniques from science, engineering and
statistics, carrying out systematic reviews of large numbers of scientific
research papers to assess whether a treatment is valid. Computerised databases
and the internet make this type of statistical analysis much easier to complete
than in previous times. Basically, EBM involves numbercrunching to assimilate
information from lots of different studies to produce a single conclusion that's
more likely to be 'the truth'.

A recent edition of a veterinary journal includes a good example of evidence
based medicine in practice: a paper titled 'A systematic review of the
management of canine osteoarthritis'. The results of 68 scientific papers were
evaluated, assessing a range of treatments including modern drugs, as well as
so-called 'alternative' therapies. Treatments were then classified according to
efficacy based on strict scientific evidence. The conclusion included some
surprises: some drugs commonly used to treat arthritis in dogs were found to
have 'weak or no evidence' to support their use. And some alternative approaches
(e.g. the use of elk velvet antler and green-lipped mussel) were supported by
'moderately strong' evidence.

It's important to note that when 'no evidence' is found to support the efficacy
of a treatment, this does not necessarily mean that it does not work: it's
sometimes the case that adequate scientific studies have not been carried out to
produce the evidence. This may bring some consolation to acupuncture enthusiasts
(myself included) who will be dismayed to find that there was 'weak or no
evidence' to support its use to treat arthritis in dogs. Sometimes the cost and
complications of setting up high quality scientific trials means that evidence
is slow to appear without a high financial investment. Supporters of alternative
therapies are likely to claim that the reason for the high level of evidence for
newly developed drugs is that drug companies have made a level of financial
outlay to gather evidence that is not feasible for their own field of practice.

That said, evidence based medicine is difficult to argue against. It's logically
and scientifically sound, and it's likely to become the standard way to judge
whether or not a vet (or a doctor) is practising effectively. I'd better get
busy retraining myself   in an evidence-based way.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              858 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Corkman (Ireland)

                                 April 30, 2009

Choosing the right path

SECTION: GENERAL NEWS

LENGTH: 882 words


Can you guess what it is' It's very simple: doing nothing at all. I know, as a
vet in practice, that seven out of ten of my patients will get better if nothing
at all is done to help them. Interestingly, the same statistic probably applies
to humans who develop symptoms of illness: when we go to a doctor, we don't
always need treatment. Often the doctor will simply reassure us that nothing
very serious is wrong with us and that we will get better in due course, simply
from the natural healing power of our bodies.

Of course the difficult bit for pet-owners and human patients is making the
judgment that separates the 70% of cases where nothing needs to be done from the
30% where physical treatment is needed to solve the problem. That's why people
pay for a 'professional consultation', and that's what vets and doctors learn to
do during their years at university. The treatment of 'doing nothing' is known
in the trade as 'masterly inactivity' or 'supervised neglect'.

Human patients and pet owners sometimes don't like the idea of 'doing nothing'.
They've paid the doctor or vet and surely they should get something in return
rather than just a few words of advice' In James Herriot's day, vets used to
make up special coloured solutions for injection, containing a harmless but
inactive substance, so that owners felt that their pet had been 'treated'.
Nowadays, such an approach would be seen to be deceitful, and instead, honesty
is the way to go, with pet owners being encouraged to trust the opinion of their
vet that it's fine just to let nature take care of the problem.

When treatment is needed, do you ever wonder how the vet chooses the best
approach for a sick animal' In most cases, a vet's mental knowledge bank starts
with information learned in veterinary college, supplemented by years attending
continuing education lectures and conferences, as well as reading text books and
journals. Add in the years of experience witnessing the effects of different
treatments, and isn't the final result likely to be a treatment that's going to
be appropriate?

This has been the received wisdom for many years but it's now under question.
The latest buzzphrase in the veterinary world, as in the human medical world, is
that we should all be practicing a new way of choosing the best treatment, known
as Evidence Based Medicine (EBM).

EBM demands that vets should take a strictly scientific approach to choosing
treatment rather than just depending on information remembered from previous
years and supplemented by experience. There's an argument that whilst the old
way does often produce a good result, a better result may be achieved by taking
a different approach.

Vets are now encouraged to disregard the use of treatments that are used
'because they've always been used and they seem to work'. Instead, we're asked
to seek out scientific evidence that a treatment is effective. How do we do
this' Evidence-based medicine uses techniques from science, engineering and
statistics, carrying out systematic reviews of large numbers of scientific
research papers to assess whether a treatment is valid. Computerised databases
and the internet make this type of statistical analysis much easier to complete
than in previous times. Basically, EBM involves numbercrunching to assimilate
information from lots of different studies to produce a single conclusion that's
more likely to be 'the truth'.

A recent edition of a veterinary journal includes a good example of evidence
based medicine in practice: a paper titled 'A systematic review of the
management of canine osteoarthritis'. The results of 68 scientific papers were
evaluated, assessing a range of treatments including modern drugs, as well as
so-called 'alternative' therapies. Treatments were then classified according to
efficacy based on strict scientific evidence. The conclusion included some
surprises: some drugs commonly used to treat arthritis in dogs were found to
have 'weak or no evidence' to support their use. And some alternative approaches
(e.g. the use of elk velvet antler and green-lipped mussel) were supported by
'moderately strong' evidence.

It's important to note that when 'no evidence' is found to support the efficacy
of a treatment, this does not necessarily mean that it does not work: it's
sometimes the case that adequate scientific studies have not been carried out to
produce the evidence. This may bring some consolation to acupuncture enthusiasts
(myself included) who will be dismayed to find that there was 'weak or no
evidence' to support its use to treat arthritis in dogs. Sometimes the cost and
complications of setting up high quality scientific trials means that evidence
is slow to appear without a high financial investment. Supporters of alternative
therapies are likely to claim that the reason for the high level of evidence for
newly developed drugs is that drug companies have made a level of financial
outlay to gather evidence that is not feasible for their own field of practice.

That said, evidence based medicine is difficult to argue against. It's logically
and scientifically sound, and it's likely to become the standard way to judge
whether or not a vet (or a doctor) is practising effectively. I'd better get
busy retraining myself   in an evidence-based way.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              859 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            February 1, 2005 Tuesday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

WRONG READ FOR AREA QUARTERBACKS;
RECRUITING DECISIONS PROVE DIFFICULT

BYLINE: By Matthew Kredell Daily News Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 1010 words


Matt Moore grew up with a UCLA pennant on the wall of his bedroom. He wore UCLA
hats and sweatshirts to class in elementary school. So when UCLA coach Bob
Toledo offered the Hart High of Newhall quarterback a scholarship in September
2001, he didn't think twice before accepting.

He knows now that was the problem.

``I knew since I was 7 years old that if UCLA offered, I would commit,'' Moore
said from Corvallis, Ore., where he is preparing to play football next fall for
Oregon State. ``That was where I always wanted to go.''

On Wednesday, dozens of promising area football players will sign their names
pledging to spend the next three to five years at a university. Many view the
opportunity to play college football and earn a free education as a dream come
true.

For some, the choice of colleges will turn out to be a mistake that could have
been prevented. Moore learned this the hard way, as did former Taft of Woodland
Hills quarterbacks Brandon Hance, Rick Clausen and Cary Dove.

Moore made his decision with his heart rather than his head. UCLA was his
favorite team and a local school. His friends and family could attend the home
games. The Bruins only had two quarterbacks on the roster, and Cory Paus would
be a senior. On the surface, it seemed like a perfect fit.

Moore never attempted to look beneath the surface. He didn't make official
visits to other colleges in order to make comparisons. He never took an official
trip to UCLA until after he committed.

Moore did not know there were rumblings about the job security of the coach for
whom he wanted to play. Toledo was fired at the end of Moore's freshman season.
He never became comfortable with new coach Karl Dorrell.

``I signed on for coach Toledo,'' Moore said. ``He's a legendary coach at UCLA,
I think. The whole deal would have been different if coach Toledo was still
there. We wouldn't even be having this discussion.''

Like Moore, Dove made the mistake of not taking the time to go through the
recruiting process.

He received his first scholarship offer from California in the spring of his
junior year (2002). Dove considered only that Cal coach Jeff Tedford was known
as a quarterback guru who had placed many from that position in the NFL. He gave
his commitment that spring.

After arriving, Dove never felt comfortable in Berkeley.

``The people were way different than Southern California,'' Dove said. ``Some
were unfriendly, especially in the place I lived off campus.''

Unhappy, Dove lost his focus, and his grades plummeted in the fall of his
sophomore year. Now he is beginning anew at College of the Canyons, hoping to
get his academics together and be recruited by another top football program.

``Kids have to be patient and recognize the fact that just because you were a
so-called star in your high school or in the county doesn't mean you're going to
be a star in college,'' said UNLV recruiting coordinator Gary Bernardi, who held
a similar position at UCLA under Toledo. ``Sometimes kids lose track of the big
picture, of the five-year plan. The college experience shouldn't be evaluated on
playing time and football alone. That's part of it but not the whole of it. I
get frustrated reading about kids who transfer after a year or two.''

The two quarterbacks to precede Dove at Taft had similar problems with their
first colleges.

Hance led Taft to its only City title as a junior in 1998. At 6-foot, he was
undersized for most colleges but got a scholarship offer from Purdue. He thought
the Boilermakers were the right team. Drew Brees, who had a similar build, was
entering his senior year of a great college career that would lead to the San
Diego Chargers taking him in the second round of the NFL Draft.

Once he got to Purdue, Hance realized that he concentrated too much on the
football team while making his decision rather than considering the whole
picture.

Football went well for Hance. As a sophomore, he started nine games and led the
Boilermakers to a 6-3 record. Yet he was miserable. The Midwest culture and
climate were too much of a change from what he was used to in California.

``You have to make sure to look at all the factors that go into choosing a
college, not just football,'' Hance said. ``You're living there year- round, and
a lot of things have an influence on your happiness outside of football. There
are only 12 or 13 games a year. Another 350 days, you have to be a normal guy
and go to class.''

Hance regrets visiting Purdue during the summer when no one was on campus. He
never interacted with students or the surrounding areas before committing. That
is one mistake he will make sure his cousin, quarterback Garrett Green from
Notre Dame of Sherman Oaks, will not make. Green will be a senior next fall.

Hance transferred to USC after his sophomore season at Purdue. He had only in
backup duty behind Matt Leinart, but he doesn't regret the decision to transfer.

``I got so much out of going to USC,'' Hance said. ``I made a lot of great
friendships, got an awesome education and won two national championships.''

Clausen, who followed Hance as quarterback at Taft, took the opposite approach
when choosing a college. He went for what felt comfortable in choosing LSU.

Clausen didn't pay enough attention to the Tigers' quarterback situation. LSU
already had three quarterbacks and was bringing in a transfer plus another
freshman. The next year, two more freshmen came in, and LSU was up to eight
quarterbacks.

Clausen didn't think he was getting the ball enough to improve, even in
practice. So he transferred to Tennessee, where he could follow his brother,
Casey. After entering last season as a backup, injuries moved him into a
starting role and he passed for three touchdowns in a Cotton Bowl victory.

``I think a lot of people think transferring is a bad thing,'' Clausen said.
``That you failed here, so you have to go someplace else. I didn't look at it as
a failure. I looked at it as a steppingstone. Just because somebody closes one
door doesn't mean another door won't open.''

Matthew Kredell, (818) 713-3607

matthew.kredell@dailynews.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ON THE DOTTED LINE First in a series of stories covering Wednesday's
national signing day for high school and junior college football players. Coming
Wednesday Updates and commitment lists for USC, UCLA and local prep players and
a profile on a UCLA recruit with a potentially debilitating disease. Coming
Thursday Coverage of signing day, class overviews and commitment lists.

GRAPHIC: photo
 Photo: MATT MOORE Former UCLA recruit is preparing for next season at Oregon
State.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 Digital First Media

                              860 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                           February 3, 2011 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITION

Three Jackets move on;
Hammonds leads North Augustans

BYLINE: By Billy Byler< Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C05

LENGTH: 521 words


NORTH AUGUSTA - North Augusta High School football coach Dan Pippin made his
annual signing day rounds Wednesday afternoon, greeting parents, talking to
members of the media and making sure his players were presentable. He finally
took a step back to survey his athletes who sat at a table in the school's
auditorium.

"Only three this time," he said.

Most area programs would love such numbers on National Signing Day, but the
Yellow Jackets have seen larger signing classes each of the past two seasons,
including seven last year.

But Pippin's initial observation gave way to a satisfied smile.

"If we could have three every year, that'd be great," he said. "This is a great
group of kids. It's not the numbers we had last year, but these guys are the
foundation we've had here. They're really good kids."

Quarterback Loranzo Hammonds, cornerback Jaylon Myers and running back Demarcus
Rouse each signed to play college football after leading the Yellow Jackets to
the Class AAAA Division II state semifinals. All three said they had some help
from family in the process of choosing where to play next season.

Rouse said he talked to his cousin, former Clemson star Reggie Merriweather,
about choosing the right college program.

"He said when it comes to playing at the college level, just let the doors open
and close and the right one will eventually open," Rouse said. "He told me to
enjoy myself, because this only happens once."

The 6-foot-1, 210-pound running back didn't impress early in the season after
suffering an ankle injury, but he finished the year with more than 1,000 rushing
yards and signed with Presbyterian College.

Hammonds, one of the few area prospects to sign with an NCAA Division I school,
committed to Florida International after a trip to Miami solidified his
decision. Hammonds threw for more than 5,000 yards in his high school career. He
said he got some advice from relatives CoCo and Aramis Hillary when making his
decision.

"CoCo said make the decision where I feel like I can be at home," Hammonds said.

Myers signed his letter of intent to play at Georgia Military, a program that
will give the star cornerback a chance to refine his spot in the secondary for
two years and possibly move to a bigger program.

He said his defensive effort this past season, which included seven
interceptions, came after facing the constant challenges in practice of covering
North Augusta star receiver Matt Hazel in 2010. Hazel, who signed with Coastal
Carolina last year, offered Myers some advice.

"He told me if he went to Georgia Military he might be at a bigger school now,"
Myers said.

In Johnston, S.C., Octavius Brown and Tony Stepney reunited with pens in hand as
they signed national letters of intent, with Brown opting for Georgia Military
College and Stepney signing with North Greenville College.

Brown was a Shrine Bowl player after being a defensive stopper up the middle.
Stepney's senior season ended in the summer after a knee injury during a passing
league scrimmage.

Mike Rosier of Morris News Service contributed to this article.

Reach Billy Byler at (706) 823-3216

or billy.byler@augustachronicle.com

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              861 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                       August 26, 1998, Wednesday Edition

A CHOICE THAT NEEDS TO BE MADE WISELY

BYLINE: FRAN HINTON

SECTION: Part A; Page 11

LENGTH: 358 words


CHOOSING a college for years 11 and 12 is important, as these are the final
years of school education. I encourage all students and their families to
consider their options carefully.

In choosing a college, think about what the college offers. Consider the range
of curriculum offerings; the student's particular strengths and career
preferences; friendship groups; college specialist facilities; extra curricula
activities; and, equally importantly, what the student wants from a college
education  academically, personally, and in terms of developing skills for their
future.

I believe it is very important that students are major players in decisions
about the college they enrol in. When this is the case, students themselves make
a personal commitment to the college: it starts to become "their college". At
the same time, it is important that this personal commitment is based on factual
information about the college, and its courses and its extra curricula
offerings.

Being involved in the decision-making is more likely to lead to improved results

  in vocational programs, tertiary entrance programs, and in the development of
broad skills and attitudes to prepare students for the world of work.

The college years are years in which students are eased into adulthood. While
they are acknowledged as being young adults, students must take responsibility
for their learning, and make the most of the opportunities available to them.
They are given the right, and gradually assume increased responsibility for
influencing decisions that affect them. They are also given a lot of support as
they make these decisions.

Students and their families can be confident that all colleges in the ACT offer
a first-class education.

College principals and staff are keen to talk to students and their families
about what the college can offer them.

I encourage all students to be actively involved in deciding on the college for
them, and to take advantage of the information and support that is available
from colleges. Fran Hinton is chief executive of the ACT Department of Education
and Community Services.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

             Copyright 1998 The Federal Capital Press of Australia
                                  Pty Limited

                              862 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  The National

                          September 22, 2012 Saturday

Poor teaching turning Emirati students off science

LENGTH: 547  words


Melanie Swan
and
Afshan Ahmed

ABU DHABI // A lack of English preparation and poor teaching are turning Emirati
schoolchildren off science and technology, a new study has found.

Unless both are improved, the study's author warns, emerging industries such as
nuclear and semiconductor plants will face a severe shortage of skilled staff.

Sohailah Makhmasi, a master's engineering student at Khalifa University,
questioned 1,000 private and government school and university students,
including Emiratis and expatriates.

"We have a problem," said Ms Makhmasi. "Right now the number of students
choosing science, technology, engineering and mathematics, is less than half
those choosing arts.

"Last year, for every student that chose to follow a science career path, three
chose to follow an arts-related career path. If this doesn't change, it will be
a problem for the UAE. We want to become an exporting country not an importing
one."

English was a particular problem for students in government schools, she said.
"Private school students do not have any issue with English proficiency while
the majority of public school students suffer from low English skills."

That in turn makes it all but impossible to take a degree in science or
technology subjects, which require more English than courses such as business or
the arts.

"At many institutions such as the Petroleum Institute, the students will stay in
a foundation [remedial English] programme for the maximum of two years and still
not make it, which makes them very depressed and feel a failure."

The Abu Dhabi Education Council (Adec) has long acknowledged the problem. To
reverse the trend, in 2010 it launched its New School Model based on bilingual
teaching to better prepare students for university. By 2015 all pupils in the
capital's government schools will be taught science and maths in English.

Kenneth Cadd, head of the Institute of Applied Technology in Abu Dhabi, said
many pupils opt out of the sciences because of a "laid back attitude to
education".

"At around Grade 8 or 9 there should be guidance for pupils to highlight the
benefits of science-based programmes," he said.

Schools needed to be pushed to promote science subjects, he said. "Schools
should run 50 per cent art programmes and 50 per cent science programmes. And if
they do not, then their funding should be reduced."

Many students complained to Ms Makhmasi about uninspiring, poorly qualified
teachers. As a consequence - and echoing previous studies - Ms Makhmasi found
that three times more students take arts subjects than study science.

Prof Tod Laursen, president of Khalifa University, agreed that the biggest issue
for schools was improving the pool of teachers, adding: "In time I hope we can
help contribute to that."

For their part, many teachers lacked motivation. "They spoke of a lack of
professional development," said Ms Makhmasi. Teachers also complained to her
about job dissatisfaction, blaming class sizes and low salaries.

"They also complained about the changes to the curriculum that were happening
almost every year, which is very hard for them to manage."

Ms Makhmasi will be taking the results of her study to share at the upcoming
Frontiers in Education Conference in Seattle, Washington, next month.

mswan@thenational.ae

aahmed@thenational.ae

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 818


                     Copyright 2012 Abu Dhabi Media Company
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              863 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 23, 2002

SCOTTISH UNIS LOSE STUDENTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 110 words


SCOTTISH universities are losing their appeal, as new figures revealed yesterday
that fewer English students are choosing to come here.

The number of English students due to take up places in Scotland this autumn has
fallen by 10.7 per cent since last year.

The Universities and Colleges Admission Service (UCAS) says the number of
students accepted by Scottish universities has risen - but not at the same rate
as the rest of the UK.

UCAS said 27,561 applicants were accepted for Scottish places - up 1.6 per cent,
compared to an average UK rise of 3.5 per cent.

Prince William choosing St Andrews may have influenced last year's figures.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              864 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 17, 2014 Friday

California: Choosing Small, Choosing Smart: Working at Small and Mid-sized Firms

LENGTH: 45  words

DATELINE: Sacramento


UCHastings College of the Law,has issued the following news release:

Choosing Small, Choosing Smart: Working at Small and Mid-sized Firms
The registration deadline for this event is 10/20/2014 11:59 PM
The cancellation deadline for this event is 10/20/2014 11:59:59 PM
Start

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              865 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                              July 6, 1993 Tuesday

JOB CHANCES RULE COURSES: UNI

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: CARBON D

SECTION: HIGHER EDUCATION; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 473 words


KEYWORD-HIT

"No degree is recession-proof'

Job chances

rule courses: uni

STUDENTS should not worry about their job prospects when choosing

university courses, University of Queensland spokesman Leah Cencig

says.

""It's unwise to make a choice based on job outcomes," she said.

""No university degree is recession-proof."

Ms Cencig said too many students had asked for a job guarantee when

inquiring about university courses.

Instead, they should place priority on their interests and

strengths when choosing a university course, she said.

Students who studied a course they were interested in were usually

more motivated and achieved better results.

Ms Cencig said it took a minimum of three to five years to complete

most degree courses and the job market and economy could change over

that period

.

Year 12 Camp Hill High School student Anjelica Fyfe wants to work

in advertising or teach Japanese but knows there is no guarantee of a

job after completing university.

For now her main frustration is not knowing what results she will

need to win a place at university.

Her schoolmate Glenys King has only one interest _ early childhood

studies.

""I don't know what I'd do if I can't get into an early childhood

course," she said.

Shannon Bryant, also from Camp Hill High School, wants to study

physiotherapy or primary school teaching but has one criterion for

choosing a university campus _ she doesn't want to leave Brisbane.

Education Department guidance counsellor Wayne Edwards said

students were very aware of the difficulty of finding jobs and the high

demand for university places.

Mr Edwards encouraged those who had not decided on a career to list

their strengths, weaknesses, likes, dislikes and whether they wanted an

indoor or outdoor occupation.

He said guidance counsellors were available at high schools and at

48 school support centres throughout Queensland.

In Canberra, the president of the Australian Vice-Chancellors

Committee, Professor Robert Smith, said admission to a university or

TAFE course did not give students a guarantee of employment at the end

of their study.

""It has never been an automatic entree to employment," he said.

However, Professor Smith said there had been a 35 percent increase

in the number of graduates employed in Australia since 1988.

He said the growth in jobs for graduates had lagged only 4 percent

behind the growth in numbers of graduates, but he ackowledged that some

graduates were finding it difficult to get a job.

""It must be extremely disheartening to someone who has studied

hard to complete a university degree only to find they have great

difficulty in obtaining a job."

ANJELICA Fyfe, left, Shannon Bryant and Glenys King, all 17 and from

Camp Hill High School, at the Tertiary Studies Expo in Brisbane.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PIC OF ANJELICA FYFE, SHANNON BRYANT AND GLENYS KING ALL FROM CAMP HILL
HIGH SCHOOL, AT THE TERTIARY STUDIES EXPO IN BRISBANE

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1993 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              866 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                          February 14, 2007 Wednesday

Head head head head

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 520 words


By Kerra Maddern

MORE and more brainy teenagers are choosing to take on one of Exeter College's
toughest courses.

This year record numbers of 16-year-olds applied to take the International
Baccalaureate, which embraces maths, languages, science and arts subjects.

The course is an alternative to sitting A Levels, where generally students study
only three subjects.

Exeter College was one of the first in the country to offer the challenging IB
14 years ago and now numbers of youngsters choosing to do the course have more
than doubled.

Twenty two graduated from the IB last year and 64 are starting this year's
course.

The college is still the only place in Devon where teenagers can take the
European-style qualification.

The IB can even include Japanese and encourages pupils to complete projects
which help the community.

There are currently 94 institutions across the country which offer the IB and
only 52 of them are state-run.

Nationally around 5,000 youngsters complete IB's every year.

Betty Woodfin, Exeter College's IB coordinator, said: "We have had our highest
ever recruitment for IB this year with 64 students enrolled in the first year.

"The IB is an opportunity for academically able students to be really stretched
and reach their full potential but it is also for students who have a broad
range of interests and who don't want to narrow their options at 16."

Students take three subjects at higher level and three at standard level.

This year's new IB students say they chose the course because they could not
decide what to do in the future and completing a range of subjects helped to
keep their options open.

Toby Glazebrook, 17, from Exmouth, said: "The IB has proved to be a great choice
because it gives you a qualification which is recognised all over the world."

His friend Luke While, 17, who lives on Exeter Quay, hopes to be a psychologist
in the future.

He was schooled at home because his mother moved about as part of her job as an
interior designer so Luke is also getting used to working with others.

"I wasn't sure what I wanted to do and I think people on the IB course are more
motivated which means I get on with them better," he said.

"I'm enjoying it loads."

Lillie Dore, 17, also had an unusual education before starting her IB.

She was taught at the Totnes Steiner School, which places less emphasis on
targets or examinations.

Lillie now wants to work on aid projects abroad.

Isabel Skrine, 16, from Crediton, also chose the IB so she could take more
subjects.

"The course is very challenging, it feels a bit like GCSEs but of course it's a
lot harder," she said.

"I also think you get to know more people because we are a smaller group."

IB student Nikki Tomkins, 16, from St James in Exeter, wants to be a English or
history teacher in the future.

"The course has really changed my idea of what I wanted to do in the future,"
the former Clyst Vale Community College student said.

Natalie Guppy, 17, another student from Queen Elizabeth's Community College in
Crediton, also likes the close group atmosphere among the IB students.

She has chosen to study Japanese, which she says is her favourite subject.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              867 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Kent and Sussex Courier

                                October 23, 2009

Holly's taking her skills on the road

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 166 words


A Beauty therapist is choosing to strike while the hair-straightening iron is
hot.

Holly Moore of Spring Hill, Punnetts Town, has followed on from collecting
Student of the Year on her Beauty Therapy course at Sussex Down's College to set
up her own business.

After working part-time at Comfort Zone in Tunbridge Wells, Miss Moore, 19, has
now started her own mobile beauty treatment company, travelling out to customers
across East Sussex.

"I think I will stay mobile," said Miss Moore when talking of her future.

"I then only have myself to look after, and apart from my products, I don't have
any more overheads."

She also pointed out it allowed her to reach a far greater range of clients than
being established in a salon.

Miss Moore beat around 100 students to collect her award and was very positive
about choosing the specialist two-year course over university.

"The college has given me a good grounding and has helped me further my career,"
she said.

"To win this award is the icing on the cake."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 101


                     Copyright 2009 Kent and Sussex Courier
                              All Rights Reserved

                              868 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 10, 2004, Monday

Think hard before you select a topic

BYLINE: Widget Finn

SECTION: Features; MBA; 10

LENGTH: 388 words


Choosing the subject for your dissertation is one of the most important
decisions you will make on your MBA programme. Some business schools leave you
to research any topic that inspires you, while others issue a list of subjects
from which you take your pick.

Henley Management College requires 1,000 words justifying your choice, Lancaster
University Management School hands out a brochure with topics from which you can
choose, while at Audencia in Nantes you come up with an idea yourself: one
student is researching "corporate gossip".

Xu Fei, from China, who graduated from Lancaster last year, investigated a
subject close to every commuter's heart: improving the rail service's
punctuality. He has some useful tips for choosing your dissertation topic based
on his experience.

The topic should be relevant to the MBA course because it is used to assess your
learning and ability to apply knowledge to solve practical problems.

Take your interests and future development into account.

Research is tough and intensive, so choose a field you are interested in or is
connected to your future career.

Select a topic relevant to your previous experience so that you can understand
the problem and offer solutions by referring to your own experience.

Solve a practical problem. An MBA course underlines the ability to apply
learning to practice. If a client is sponsoring research, he or she will look
for problem-solving or an improvement in business performance. But, whatever the
client's demands, remember that the primary purpose of the dissertation is
academic. However satisfied the client may be, he or she cannot award you the
degree.

Be sure that you can obtain sufficient information for your research topic. An
academic dissertation requires quantitative and qualitative data to support the
argument. It must also quote concepts, models and studies by other people to
support your opinions.

Time is short, so choose your topic and start researching as soon as possible.

But allow a fortnight for reading and analysis, then narrow down the options
when you have gathered enough information.

Your supervisor has a broad knowledge of the subject of your research and in
writing academic papers, so consult him or her when choosing, researching and
writing up the topic.


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              869 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Redland City Bulletin

                           January 17, 2018 Wednesday
                                 Print Edition

Choosing a school is one of th...

SECTION: NONE; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 241 words


Choosing a school is one of the most important decisions parents will make on
behalf of their children, and with an overwhelming number of options it can be
difficult to know where to start, especially when deciding between single-sex
and co-educational learning.

Located on separate campuses in Manly West, Moreton Bay College and Moreton Bay
Boys' College make this decision easier by offering the best of both - an
outstanding education experience for students in a single-sex environment and
joint social, cultural and co-curricular activities.

Consistently ranked as two of the state's top performing schools, the colleges
offer a nurturing environment and an inquiry-based academic program which
encourages students to think critically, challenge and question.

For students to achieve their potential it's important they have access to a
wide a range of experiences. There are a diverse range of activities on offer at
the colleges, including an exceptional music program covering classical and
contemporary music; a wide variety of sports supported by excellent coaching
staff and cultural and community activities which include art, drama, dance,
Duke of Edinburgh, Leos Club and debating.

The colleges offer a supportive pastoral care program to ensure each student's
needs are met and the schools are committed to empowering young men and women in
their care, fostering inquiring minds, strong values and the confidence to make
a difference.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2018 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              870 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITION

SURGICAL SPECIALTIES JUST DON'T CUT IT FOR WOMEN DOCS

BYLINE: By ANITA WEIER The Capital Times

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 698 words


Fewer women doctors choose specialized surgery as a career, often because of a
perception that the lifestyle involved would not allow a balanced family life, a
University of Wisconsin Hospital study suggests.

A Web-based survey was sent to 99 graduates of the University of Wisconsin
general surgery program from 1985 and 2006, and 74 responded - 58 men and 16
women.

Surgery subspecialties that women tend to avoid include cardiothoracic, brain
surgery and vascular surgery, said Dr. Jaime McCord, lead author of the study
and a third-year general surgery resident at University Hospital.

The study, published in the November issue of the Journal of the American
College of Surgeons, found that 69 percent of women and 36 percent of men
responding to the survey said general surgery was their current field, with the
rest practicing a specialty. The difference was slightly less for those who
graduated in more recent years, with 69 percent of women and 48 percent of men
practicing general surgery.

Sixty-nine percent of women versus 43 percent of men said that lifestyle was an
important factor in choosing their careers.

"Typically, surgery has been viewed as having an uncontrollable lifestyle with
higher work hour demands and frequent intrusion on one's personal and family
life," said McCord, who worked on the study with others, including Dr. Sharon
Weber, a surgical oncologist at University Hospital who conceived of the idea
for the study.

The report also noted that another study had found that a higher percentage of
female surgeons have spouses who work full-time outside the home - 80 percent of
female surgeons versus 26 percent of male surgeons. Female surgeons also
reported more than twice the number of hours spent on parenting duties compared
with their male colleagues.

"That was kind of astounding to see. More men are starting to stay at home, but
women will always bear more of the burden of family life," McCord said in an
interview.

The mean age of the survey respondents was 40 years, and 95 percent were married
or partnered, with an average of 1.9 children. Subspecialty surgeons end up
earning more money, but have to spend more years in training.

(McCord, 29, will likely go into general surgery for quite a different reason
than personal or family life: She wants to be involved in international medical
missions.)

Showing balance

The UW authors suggest that it is important for surgeons to model balanced
lifestyles to medical students if they want to recruit high-caliber women and
men into surgery, especially subspecialty fields.

The findings also suggest that general surgical residency programs might improve
efforts to recruit women for subspecialty training by addressing the perception
of the lifestyle associated with choosing a subspecialty surgical career.

"The field of surgery and the majority of surgical residencies have been
implementing changes to improve the 'lifestyles' of surgeons," McCord said. For
instance, at the University Hospital, weekend conferences have been moved to
weekdays and cross-coverage by faculty has improved. Additional resident service
hours at all hospitals have been limited to 80 hours per week, as mandated by a
national association that governs residencies.

More than 70 percent of respondents indicated that the following factors were
either important or very important when choosing future subspecialty training:
interest in the field, intellectual appeal of field, an influential mentor and
clinical opportunities in that field.

Among all possible factors listed, only lifestyle was significantly more
important to women versus men graduates when choosing their future career.

The article also suggested that more female mentors are needed, because female
medical students and residents need to see the balance of an academic surgical
career with family life. Yet as recently as 2004, only 16 percent of faculty
positions in academic surgery were held by women.

Over the past 20 years, the number of women has increased across many medical
fields, including general surgery. Yet despite these advances, only 12 percent
of the approximately 26,300 practicing general surgeons in the United States are
women.

aweier@madison.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Michelle Stocker/The Capital Times Dr. Jaime McCord (left) and Dr.
Sharon Weber are authors of a new study that examines why relatively fewer women
surgeons choose specialties. Capital Times graphic Surgical specialties

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              871 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                            January 7, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The school run's better by bus;
14 Post Primary Education NI

SECTION: POST PRIMARY EDUCATION NI;FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 457 words


Year eight pupils from schools across North and West Belfast are being
encouraged to make the move away from private car journeys to other healthy and
more environmentally-friendly forms of travel, as part of a Translink initiative
to help make people's lives better.

For the third consecutive year, Translink has tasked pupils with reducing the
number of car journeys made along main routes into school through the 'Life's
Better Schools Travel Challenge.' Ten schools including seasoned entrants from
St Dominic's Grammar School, Coláiste Feirste and St Louise's Comprehensive
College who won the overall prize last year, along with new applicants from
Belfast Royal Academy and Glengormley High, will be taking part in the
challenge.

The challenge is once again being backed by the Kennedy Centre which will
provide spot prizes and the winning pupils will receive free bus transport for
their school.

Philip Woods, Metro Service Delivery Manager at Translink, commented: "We are
delighted to be launching the Life's Better Schools Travel Challenge, especially
following the success over the past two years. It is great that even more
schools are witnessing the benefits that the scheme creates for the pupils
involved, including understanding the environmental impact of reducing private
car journeys, enjoying the benefits of regular through to learning about the
safety issues associated with the use of passenger transport.

"Through this initiative we are challenging young people to embrace the benefits
that make life better for people choosing the bus, such as less hassle than
sitting in traffic travelling to and from school, more time to spend chatting to
friends or listening to music, reduced congestion and lower emissions.

"Choosing public over private transport can also be beneficial for the health of
the individual by walking to and from the bus stop or travelling to school by
bicycle, as well as building social skills and independence for the pupil."

"Last year we saw a reduction of 16% in weekly private car journeys, resulting
in less congestion and CO2 reductions and we are looking forward to seeing
improved results this year. We hope this challenge will also help to make
people's lives better within the local community by reducing the number of cars
on the roads at these busy times and help encourage safety at school gates,"
concluded Phillip.

For further information please visit www.translink.co.uk/lifesbetter or
#translinklifesbetter The schools participating include: St Dominic's Grammar
School St Louise's Comprehensive College St Genevieve's High School Coláiste
Feirste De La Salle College Malone Integrated College Glengormley High School St
Malachy's College B.R.A. (Belfast Royal Academy) Edmund Rice College

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2014 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              872 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 22, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

College Football Playoff committee needs diversity;
Differing views could only be helpful to sport

BYLINE: Dan Wolken, @DanWolken, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 578 words


If there's one thing we've figured out about the College Football Playoff
committee after two years, it's that it requires a lot of unnecessary,
irrelevant work and very few difficult decisions at the end.

Once all the games were played, it took about three minutes to figure out the
teams in this season's Playoff, and the 2014 decision to give Ohio State the
fourth spot over Baylor and TCU was close but ultimately a win-win situation for
the committee. No matter which way that vote went, there was not going to be a
large-scale controversy.

That's how it will work most years in this system. It turns out choosing four
teams out of five power conference champions -- which, again, will be the
template nearly every year -- is pretty straightforward.

So while the 13 people who collectively make the decisions are obviously
important to the process, it's not like they need special skills or intense
background in football strategy. This is less an evaluation of football teams
than it is understanding data.

Which means there's no reason the group picking the playoff should be as male,
old, white and philosophically ancient as it has been and will be again.

The College Football Playoff announced Thursday that it was replacing former Air
Force Academy superintendent Mike Gould, Southern California athletics director
Pat Haden, former Nebraska coach Tom Osborne and former Big East commissioner
Mike Tranghese with former Michigan coach Lloyd Carr, former Southern
Mississippi coach Jeff Bower, former Central Michigan coach Herb Deromedi and
Oregon athletics director Rob Mullens.

In other words, four old white guys are being replaced by ... well, three old
white guys and a 46-year-old white guy in Mullens, who, along with Texas Tech
athletics director Kirby Hocutt (age 44), are the two youngest members of the
committee.

If you're looking for diversity, you'd find more in the clubhouse at Augusta
National -- where, coincidentally, the committee's only female participant in
Condoleezza Rice is also a member.

Seriously, how is it possible that 19 people in total have now been chosen for
this committee and you've had only one woman (Rice) and two African Americans
(Rice and Tyrone Willingham, formerly coach at Stanford, Notre Dame and
Washington)?

Obviously, if you're choosing most of this committee from athletics directors
and former coaches -- who are largely male and white -- there's a limited pool
of people to choose from. And even then, flying to Dallas every Monday for the
final six weeks of the season solely to give ESPN content for a television show
until the day after the championship game isn't the kind of thing everybody
wants to do.

Still, they can't come up with a more representative group than this?

Not to impugn the character or integrity or competence of anyone who was picked
this cycle, but if you already have Bobby Johnson on the committee, do you
really need Jeff Bower? If you already have Barry Alvarez, do you really need
Lloyd Carr?

College football's highest honor should represent everyone. This committee
largely represents grainy films from the early 1990s.

What would be the harm in including someone whose background is in statistical
analysis? Why not a recently retired NFL player who starred in college football.
Why not someone in his 30s or another woman? Why not someone with a coaching
history in the spread offense?

College football evolves quickly. This committee, so far, looks like it's going
to be stuck in time.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kevin Jairaj, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              873 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 24, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Online Guides Allow College Students to Grade Their Professors

BYLINE:  By TAMAR LEWIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1124 words

DATELINE: COLLEGE PARK, Md.


When Kelaine Conochan, a sophomore at the University of Maryland here, was
choosing courses for this semester, she went online to Pick-a-Prof to check out
the teachers -- and their grading patterns.

"In one of the classes I was thinking about, the professor hadn't given a single
A," Ms. Conochan said. "And I thought, if there's no chance for me to get an A,
I'm not going to take it."

Ms. Conochan's consumer-minded approach to her education is not unusual these
days: many students see higher education less as a learning opportunity than as
a high-priced commodity whose value will be enhanced by good grades.

So it is perhaps not surprising that students are devoting more energy to
digging up information that will help them gauge their chances of succeeding in
particular courses. Students at most universities can find compilations of
informal reviews by past students, describing professorial quirks, testing and
grading habits. And recently, the Internet has spawned entrepreneurial efforts
to provide more elaborate ratings on sites like professorperformance.com,
ratingsonline.com and
ratemyprofessors.com.

But Pick-a-Prof, a three-year-old Web business, is taking consumerism in higher
education to a new level, allowing students on some campuses to see the grade
distributions for every course and every professor, along with the percentage of
students who dropped the course and student reviews of the professor.

"I'm sure Pick-a-Prof is going to catch on big," said Brandon DeFrehn, president
of the Maryland student government, which paid $10,000 to bring the service to
campus. "In terms of the way American higher education is going, it's becoming
more of a consumer good, with students seeing themselves as customers and
demanding more information."

Many students who use the site are enthusiastic, saying it is almost like having
Consumer Reports ratings on the professors. Many professors use the Consumer
Reports analogy, too, but not all see it as healthy. Some said that information
was always good, but others worried that increased emphasis on ratings would
lead professors to focus more on popularity than on substance and to forgo
complex and subtle instruction for what was easily accessible.

Pick-a-Prof, the creation of two graduates of Texas A & M, uses state open
records laws to mine public universities for statistical information, and then
posts the information online for students. Pick-a-Prof is available on 51
campuses, including Florida State University, Indiana University and the
University of Colorado. At most colleges, the student government pays $5,000 to
$10,000 a year for the service.

Maryland's student government signed on last year, but only last spring's grade
distributions are online.

"It's never easy to get the information, and in several cases, we've had to use
a lawyer, but it's never had to go as far as litigation," said Chris Chilek, who
founded Pick-a-Prof with John Cunningham. "The whole idea behind this was that
there's lots of information being kept that no one's ever made readily
available.

"We began thinking about this when we were registering for classes, and you had
to keep flipping back and forth in the catalog to see when different classes
met, and we were saying it would be so much easier online. Then I asked John if
he knew anything about a particular professor, and we realized that would be
easy to do online, too."

Students can also use the site to build a class schedule or read course
descriptions, reading lists or biographical material their professors have
posted. Many professors go online, too, both to check student comments and to
see whether their grading is too loose or too tough.

"I looked at my grade distribution, and I thought maybe mine were too high, so
I'm goingto get a little stricter," Peter Sandborn, a mechanical engineering
professor, said. "I know students look at the site, but I hope they aren't
shopping for courses entirely on grade distributions. I do think part of the
educational process is to learn from different kinds of teachers, good and bad,
because out there in the world, they'll work with different kinds of bosses,
good and bad."

Other professors contended that although ratings might be useful for choosing a
refrigerator or car, they commodify education in an unhealthy way. "I'm not
saying the sky is falling, or that it's a crisis, but I do believe that if you
start orienting your work to the applause of the audience, that has unfortunate
effects," said Dr. William T. Stuart, the director of undergraduate studies in
the anthropology department.

Professors said that choosing the professor who gave the most A's was not as
sensible as choosing the highest-rated refrigerator or air conditioner. "My most
rewarding course evaluation came from a student who wrote that they earned a D
in my course, but learned more in this final course in their undergraduate
experience than they had in previous courses," Robert L. Infantino, associate
dean of the College of Life Sciences, said. "A grade distribution does not
capture this."

Just how reliable Pick-a-Prof's ratings are is open to question, too, because
anyone with an e-mail address can post comments on the site.

"Ideally, every school would do something like Pick-a-Prof themselves," said
Patrick Wu, a member the Maryland student government's executive board. "But
because our school has been unwilling to make the information and evaluations
available to us, and because we feel that students want the information so
badly, we went to Pick-a-Prof."

Mr. Wu and other champions of Pick-a-Prof said better access to information
about teaching style and practices would ultimately improve educational quality.
Furthermore, they said, most students are not focused solely on finding the easy
A. Indeed, a search of the site found that professors who gave more A's did not,
as a rule, get higher student ratings than those who graded more harshly, nor
did professors who gave higher grades have fewer dropouts than their tougher
colleagues.

Here at College Park, a sprawling campus with more than 25,000 students, most
students were unaware that Pick-a-Prof was available, although the campus
newspaper, The Diamondback, has carried articles in the last year about the
student government's decision to spend $10,000 for the service and renew it for
another year, for $6,000.

Karen Bragg, a spokeswoman for Pick-a-Prof, said company data indicated 27
percent of the College Park students had registered with Pick-a-Prof and used it
this semester. But interviews with dozens of students found only 1 in 10 had
heard of Pick-a-Prof, and even fewer had used it.

"We know there's not as much awareness as we'd like," Mr. DeFrehn said. "This is
still pretty new on this campus."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Putting Faculty Members to the Test"Here are
student comments posted on Pick-a-Prof about professors at the University of
Maryland at College Park. *His lectures are fraught with many lengthy pauses,
often in the middle of sentences, which is sometimes infuriating. *Great course,
great professor! Very interesting material, fairly easy exams and few homework
assignments. *I dreaded going to lectures and listening to her monotone voice
drone on for 50 minutes. *Best math teacher I have ever had at Maryland. The
professor made it fun and used analogies that made the abstract concepts easy to
understand. *It is the most boring class I have ever taken. He talks a mile a
minute, and there is no chance to write everything he says. There are six books
to read in the class, and they are hard, boring books. *She goes quickly,
explains things poorly, grades harshly and fluctuates her voice too much. *Very
smart man, very poor professor. You have been warned. *I barely put any work
into it, skipped lectures a good bit or just did other work in lectures and
still got an A+. *You don't really have to read the textbook assignments, but
you do have to read the 2-3 books he assigns. They are interesting though.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company

                              874 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Santa Cruz Sentinel (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           November 13, 2014 Thursday

Soquel's Natalie Diaz inks NLI with Dominican University

BYLINE: Julie Jag, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 590 words


Nov. 13--A detour led Natalie Diaz to Dominican University's doorstep.

Diaz, a standout senior basketball player at Soquel High, had been making an
official visit to Sonoma State when she decided to stop off at Dominican on the
way home. She knew little of the San Rafael school other than that its new
coach, Tim LaKose, had approached her at a small viewing tournament two weeks
earlier.

"He contacted me pretty late. I decided on the way back, why not give it a
shot?" Diaz said. "I ended up really liking it."

She liked it so much that Diaz will commit to play for the school by signing a
National Letter of Intent Thursday. Wednesday marked the first day of the early
letter of intent period, and a handful of Santa Cruz County athletes plan to
make their official college commitments within a week of that date.

Fellow Knight Troy Miller signed his NLI Wednesday morning to play baseball for
the University of Michigan and swimmer Sarah Shimomura, a Santa Cruz resident
who attends Archbishop Mitty, signed to compete for Arizona. San Lorenzo Valley
also expected to have several students make college commitments Wednesday,
athletic director Mark Mercer said.

Later this week, Monte Vista Christian golfer Ryan Slater is expected to sign
his NLI to USC on Friday and 2014 All-County Co-Pitcher of the Year Chris Rivera
of Watsonville will be signing his NLI to Long Beach State on Monday.

Rivera verbally committed to Long Beach State in July.

"We knew he has the stuff," Watsonville baseball coach James Gomez said then,
noting the 5-foot-8 Rivera is the first player out of Watsonville High to sign
with an NCAA Division I program in more than three decades. "It seems like most
colleges want their right-handers 6-2 or above. But when the lights were on the
brightest and he was on his biggest stage, he came through with his best stuff."

Miller also committed to the Wolverines in July, citing the school's academics
and the team's success in choosing to go against a bloodline with ties to rival
Michigan State. His father and mother both graduate from MSU.

"It's just a dream come true," Miller said in July of securing plans to attend
Michigan. "It's awesome."

Diaz is feeling the same way after stumbling upon and eventually choosing
Dominican. She said she considered CSU-San Marcos, CSU-Los Angeles and Cal
Poly-Pomona and Sonoma. But she clicked right away with LaKose, who is in his
first year coaching the Penguins after spending the past two seasons at San Jose
State, where he was named the 2011-12 WAC Coach of the Year.

"What I really like is he had the same idea about me as I do for myself," said
Diaz, who was named the 2012-13 Santa Cruz Coast Athletic League MVP as a
sophomore. "I'm a utility player, I like to drive. I'm bigger than lot of
people, but if a post guards me, I'm quicker than lot of posts. I think I'll be
playing mostly at guard position."

And after seeing that the team would be running a give-and-go, creative offense,
she had no doubts which dotted line she wanted to sign on at her ceremony this
week.

"At first, I was very, very nervous," she said, noting Pomona gave her a
two-week signing window shortly after she verbally committed to Dominican. "But
now it's a huge relief. I feel like a huge weight has been taken off my
shoulders."

To report an athlete who is signing an NLI, please email
sports@santacruzsentinel.com

___ (c)2014 the Santa Cruz Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) Visit the Santa Cruz
Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) at www.santacruzsentinel.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20141113-QC-Soquel-s-Natalie-Diaz-inks-NLI-with-Dominican-University-1113-201411
13

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QC


                       Copyright 2014 Santa Cruz Sentinel

                              875 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                             August 4, 2014 Monday

WELL BEGUN IS HALF DONE

LENGTH: 216 words

DATELINE: CHENNAI


CHENNAI, Aug. 4 -- SRM Group of Institutions Founder-Chairman T R Pachamuthu
exhorted freshers to think big that would lead to innovation.Speaking at the
induction function of first year Engineering Graduates at the Easwari
Engineering College on August 2, part of SRM Group that's affiliated to the
state-owned Anna University, he applauded the students for choosing to pursue
their graduation at the SRM Group.

Observing that there were more than 560 engineering colleges in the country, he
said, "It is a major challenge for students in choosing the right institution to
pursue their career, well begun is half done."

He also conveyed to the students about the plethora of opportunities that were
available at the SRM Group.

SRM Group Ramavaram and Trichy campus Chairman R Shivakumar said the students
would be facing a totally different atmosphere as it was a transition from
school to college.

He also highlighted about the various placement options available to the
students and said the college would be imparting skill training to make them
industry-ready when they pass out of the college.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              876 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                             January 9, 2017 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

How parents can give a helping hand;
ADVICE FOR PARENTS ; There are many practical ways to support a student in
finding the right course writes Catherine O'Connor

SECTION: GOING TO COLLEGE;NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 602 words


COMPLETING the CAO application can be a daunting experience for both parents and
students alike, but it doesn't have to be this way. As parents, we must remember
that the student is the most important person in all of this discussion.
Choosing a good study path requires a lot of time and patience.

Completing the application at this time serves two functions: it completes the
registration process and gives students time to focus, knowing that there will
be plenty of opportunity to revisit the application in the months ahead.

Choosing the wrong course is one of the major factors which leads to student
drop-out at college. Each year, I meet a lot of these students attending
colleges nationwide who are disillusioned and find that college just doesn't
meet their expectations, leading to unhappiness and a sense of failure. This can
be difficult for parents and the family as a whole to deal with.

Here are some handy tips for parents... Encourage the student to take control
and ownership of the search for college courses. They will value the experience
more, work harder and get more out of www.it.Be upfront about the cost of a
third-level education. Students will welcome this. Who is paying for what? While
wrong course choice is listed as one of the major factors in the high dropout
rates, having financial worry is also a major www.factor.Be positive. This is an
opportunity to have openended discussions exploring life choices.

Pick your moment. Don't leave such an important issue to the last minute to
discuss, as this will cause tension and negativity, and students will clam up.
Take a practical approach to the registration - it's a fixed date with a fixed
price, so get in there. Remember that choices made now can be changed right up
to July 1, with the exception of restricted-application courses, which have
early assessment procedures (check the relevant prospectus for details).

It's OK to work quietly apart in the search for the right course and college. It
doesn't matter who finds the right course - what matters is that it is a good
choice. Get out a notebook and jot down any information from your research that
you feel might be relevant to help your son or daughter on their journey.

Observe what the student likes to do, the type of discussions they engage in,
who they admire and why, what makes them tick. Encourage them to make their own
notes. This is an incremental process. It's like a slow-burning candle: there
are no instant answers. These notes don't have to be shared but patterns may
emerge and may be useful points to raise in future discussions.

Asking the right questions is important. There will be many questions and, as
the student matures, these questions will change many times before the final
course choices are made at the end of the academic year. It is vital that
students list courses in order of genuine interest. They also need to have lots
of choice in their area of interest. Every course listed on the application
requires the same level of research.

Given the highly competitive nature of the college entry process, students will
need to have a wide range of choices available in their area of interest. For
each course listed on the CAO application, there is one question that students
need to ask themselves: how would I react if this course was offered to me in
August 2017? The answer will speak for itself.

.Catherine O'Connor, Trinity College Dublin, education consultant and author of
Cracking the College Code: A Practical Guide to Making the Most of the First
Year College Experience, available at www.crackingthecollegecode.ie and all good
bookshops.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              877 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                Hull Daily Mail

                             August 19, 2016 Friday

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 14-15

LENGTH: 489  words


With the plethora of courses and providers available to students thinking about
life after GCSEs, one of the hardest big  choices is what they will actually
learn.

These days, it is not as cut and dried as choosing from A-levels,
apprenticeships, BTECs or foundation degrees either.

Many training providers offer opportunities for students to shape their own
pathways in a mix-and-match way.

One such provider is St Mary's College in west Hull.

Headteacher Ged Fitzpatrick said: "SM6 [St Mary's College Sixth Form] is the
fastest-growing sixth form in the area because it offers a comprehensive and
inclusive post-16 provision to young people from all backgrounds who are looking
to continue their post-16 studies in a high-performing sixth-form college
environment.

"The curriculum offered to students extends over 30 courses, catering for level
two and level three students, who can study either more traditional 'academic'
subjects, vocational courses or a combination of the two.

"SM6 students achieve better on academic and vocational courses than at any
other local provider.  SM6 value-added results are significantly above national
average, demonstrating that our students make exceptional progress."

Some students may already have a clear idea on a vocational route they want to
pursue, and that's where they need to take a closer look at what a particular
setting is providing them with a programme.

For other students, a more traditional, academic route might be the best thing
for them, perhaps if they are considering academic courses at university.

While there is a lot of excitement and encouragement behind more students
studying vocational qualifications, sometimes the traditional A-level is the
right route for you.

Aspiring doctors, for instance, will be expected to have A-levels in biology and
chemistry, while astronauts will be expected to have maths and physics A-levels.

Even when it comes to the arts, students considering studying traditional
academic subjects at Russell Group universities will be expected on the whole to
have a handful of traditional qualifications.

Phil Kelly, head of sixth form at St Mary's College, said: "If you have decided
you want to study A-levels or other types of level two or three qualifications
at sixth form, then it is really important for you to do some research when
choosing both the provider and your options.

"For example, investigate university course entrance requirements by searching
for advice on facilitating subjects.

"If you want to become a doctor, you need to know you must choose biology and
chemistry or you may not be considered, and in some cases universities may also
expect maths and/or physics -  so plan ahead.

"You may want to consider a sixth form provider like St Mary's College, which
also provides a Medical, Health and Social Care Academy that supports students
to get high-quality work experience and enrichment in addition to academic
qualifications."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HIGH ACHIEVERS: St Mary's College headteacher Ged Fitzpatrick with
pupils. Pictures: Kate Woolhouse
MIX AND MATCH: St Mary's College.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              878 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                              July 20, 2015 Monday

10 wise tips to remember while choosing the right Business School

LENGTH: 498 words

DATELINE: India


India, July 20 -- With admissions to MBA colleges in full swing, students would
do well to check out various attributes before zeroing in on the right college.
A good college not only paves way for a great career ahead but also helps shape
a person's character, beliefs, thoughts and a successful life. For choosing the
right business school, cross checking following important guidelines will be
extremely helpful:

Approval: Any institution which is offering MBA should be approved by All India
Council for Technical Institute (AICTE). There are some institutions which are
offering MBA or equivalent courses which are not approved by AICTE. It is an
important criterion to undertake a course in AICTE approved institution for
national acceptance.

Affiliation: Institutions are either affiliated to university or are autonomous.
Each of the categories has its own advantages and disadvantages. Universities
traditionally have a strong foundation and autonomous colleges have the
advantage of updating the syllabi as per the need of the industry, on a regular
basis.

Faculty: It is advisable to check out whether the B-School has distinguished
full-time qualified faculty to provide continuous guidance to the students. Try
to find out the ratio between the full time faculty members and the visiting
faculty members. Have a look at the kind of guest lectures at the institute that
you are thinking of joining. Faculty is the prime factor for providing quality
education and their continuous support brings out best of the talents in the
students.

Fee: This is one of the more important criteria and if the institution has a
good track record of training and placement, then it brings you the right ROI
(Return on Investment). But the fee should not be a make or break criterion for
you if the ROI is good. These days, there are numerous banks which offer
"education loans" on easy terms and that can fulfill the requirements of
completing your operating expenses of the course.

Infrastructure: It is essential to visit the campus at least once. Since the
students have to spend two years in the institute which they join. They should
feel safe, secure & comfortable in the institute. Also, there should be right
facilities in the classrooms, library, cafeteria, hostel, internet connectivity,
Wi-Fi, labs, etc. Campus should be student friendly and have decent ambience to
support studies.

Industry Linkage: The industry linkage of the institute gives you the
opportunity to get industrial exposure and expand practical knowledge during the
tenure of your course. Location advantage and industry partnerships help in
ensuring that students obtain interesting and knowledge-enhancing internships
and live projects with reputed companies. These projects help in obtaining
desired jobs in future as well.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Web Newswire. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              879 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              June 23, 2017 Friday

VNIT workshop shows engineering aspirants their career path

SECTION: NAGPUR

LENGTH: 433 words


NAGPUR: Misconceptions of students aspiring to pursue engineering were dispelled
at a daylong workshop conducted by the metallurgy department of Vivsvesvaraya
National Institute of Technology on Wednesday. More than 20 aspirants and their
parents were given information about a career in engineering and taken to
various departments of the institution to show how they function. The workshop
was aimed at providing students an insight into various disciplines of
engineering and guide them in choosing their field of interest.

The workshop was divided into two sessions, seminar and campus visit. DR Peshwe,
head of the metallurgy department, told TOI, "After Std XII, students are
sceptical about the future and have a lot of confusion. Through this workshop,
we hope the students will be able to decide their field of specialization and
take a call." Heads of every department gave students a brief introduction to
the branch and its prospects after they finish studies.Atul Ballal, assistant
professor at metallurgy department, said, "The workshop focused on helping
aspirants get an idea about engineering disciplines and its functioning.
Assisting students in choosing a field of specialization is our motto." Such
workshops also enhance confidence of students so that they could embark on their
professional journey without hesitation, he said. Students and their parents
were taken to different laboratories and shown amenities the institution offers
to broaden their perspective about the engineering profession.A power-point
presentation was given by the faculty of the college while heads of various
departments gave a brief introduction about the courses. Students were apprised
of syllabus, subjects, functioning and importance of each discipline.Manas
Chaudhary, one of the students, said, "The workshop gave me an in-depth
knowledge about the prospects of engineering course and I had many of my doubts
cleared. We as students are in a state of confusion after passing Std XII
examination as too many options are available to choose from. Such workshops
help in overcoming our career insecurities and selecting a proper stream of
education."Another aspirant Prachi Kane said, "I was very scared and doubtful
about the course I need to choose for my higher education. But this workshop
helped me in removing doubts and opening new areas which I can explore
confidently. Visit to VNIT was very informative as I was able to learn about the
numerous projects and other things of every department. I learnt a lot and feel
confident about my future choices."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              880 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Evening Sun (Hanover, Pennsylvania)

                            October 15, 2006 Sunday

SAT optional for admission to Gettysburg College

BYLINE: By ANGIE MASON For The Evening Sun

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 680 words


Gettysburg College is one of the latest schools to make the SAT and ACT optional
for incoming students, a trend some say is growing nationwide.

Gettysburg faculty recently voted 50-25 in favor of going test-optional, said
Kendra Branchick, spokeswoman for Gettysburg College. Prospective students
applying for admission for next fall will have the option of having their
applications considered without a score from the SAT or ACT, two widely used
college entrance exams.

Gettysburg, a liberal arts college with about 2,500 students, has been studying
the concept for about two years, said Barbara Fritze, vice president for
enrollment and educational services at the college.

"There was lots of healthy discussion," Fritze said. "We had an opportunity here
to provide greater access to many students who may not even consider the college
based on one single application criteria."

High school curriculum and grade-point average are great predictors of
first-year college success, Fritze said. She said the college knows there are
students who are creative and can bring talents "beyond one standardized test
score."

Some area students find optional SATs to be a relief and are glad to leave their
No. 2 pencils at home.

"I think it's a good thing," said South Western High School senior Paul Bida.
"One test shouldn't be the determining factor of getting accepted."

He said the test does not reflect the entirety of a student's academic career.

South Western junior Molly Wilkerson, who is taking the test soon, does not
agree with some colleges going with optional SATs.

"If you do well on the test, it won't help you," she said. She also wondered if
the test is optional, would the act of submitting or not submitting the test
influence a school's decision?

Senior Cody Shue said though some schools choose to make SATs optional, it's
still a good idea to take the test. Many schools he and others are applying to
still require the SATs, and many merit scholarships require test scores.

"I think it's a great idea," senior J.C. Laughlin said. "When schools go
strictly off your SATs, that can decide your future in a completely different
direction."

Gettysburg isn't the only college in the area to make the tests optional.
Franklin and Marshall College, a Lancaster liberal arts school with about 2,000
students, has been test-optional for about 10 years, said Eric Maguire, director
of admissions operations.

"There's a cohort of students in any prospective student class that has a solid
transcript (and) a solid academic background, however, doesn't test well,"
Maguire said. The college requires two graded writing samples if a prospective
student opts out of the tests, he said.

York College and Penn State York both require the SAT or ACT, according to
admissions information on their Web sites.

"The last two years in particular have seen a surge of selective liberal arts
colleges dropping test score requirements," said Robert Schaeffer, public
education director for the National Center for Fair and Open Testing, an
advocacy organization.

Gettysburg College's decision makes 27 schools in the top 100 liberal arts
colleges, as ranked by U.S. News and World Report, that have made the tests
optional, Schaeffer said. Many of the schools choosing to do so want their
schools to reflect more diversity or intellectual creativity or reduce "the
insanity of the college admissions process," he said.

Caren Scoropanos, a spokeswoman for the College Board, which administers the
SAT, said most schools choosing to be test-optional are "small, liberal arts
colleges that have the infrastructure to review applications individually."

Eliminating the SAT or ACT scores makes the admissions process much more
subjective, Scoropanos said.

"The SAT provides a consistent measuring stick by which all students are
measured," she said.

But critics of the tests believe there are biases - for example, students who
can afford to pay for coaches to help them prepare for the tests.

"The common yardstick is made of elastic or possibly Silly Putty," Schaeffer
said.

Steve Marroni contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              881 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Americus Times Recorder (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             June 16, 2015 Tuesday

SGTC hosts Kauffman Tire graduate recognition ceremony

BYLINE: Beth Alston, Americus Times-Recorder, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1111 words


June 16--AMERICUS -- South Georgia Technical College (SGTC) hosted the first
Kauffman Tire graduate recognition ceremony in the John M. Pope Industrial
Technology Center on the Americus campus recently with the Kauffman Tire
graduates, their family members, and Kauffman Tire and SGTC officials attending.

"This is a special day for Kauffman Tire and a special day for these students
and their families," said Mike Olsson, Kauffman Tire director of Talent
Acquisition and Development, as he welcomed everyone to the graduate recognition
ceremony.

"This special program provides a fast paced track to a good career," added
Olsson. "This is an exciting day for our graduates because this day will allow
them to move on to bigger and better things. This is the starting line and now
you can take what you have learned here at South Georgia Tech and move forward
in your career to wherever you want to take it. The sky is the limit."

After the welcome by Olsson, SGTC automotive technology instructor Brandon Dean
thanked Kauffman Tire for the partnership with SGTC and the automotive
technology program. He also thanked the students for choosing SGTC and
encouraged them to do their best as they continued their careers with Kauffman.

SGTC Vice President of Economic Development Wally Summers also expressed his
appreciation to Kauffman Tire and complimented them on their dedication to great
service.

"This is a great team of individuals and we are pleased that Kauffman Tire
selected South Georgia Technical College for this partnership and that they are
allowing us to provide their technicians with the training needed to grow their
business."

Kauffman Tire Executive Vice President/COO Tom Money addressed the graduates of
the Kauffman Tire-South Georgia Technical College Automotive Chassis and Climate
Control Specialist program and said "this is truly a great day for each of you.
You should be very proud of what you have accomplished.

"You are the very first group of graduates, but don't let this be your last
step. Continue to learn, to grow and to push us to set the standard for this
industry. Believe in yourself. Have faith in your abilities but realize that
success does not come without some trials. Recognize your potential, be your
best. Be willing to stretch yourselves and take risks in order to become even
better because you matter and the work you do matters."

Money also thanked SGTC for making it easy for Kauffman Tire to develop this
program.

"We had a dream to develop a program off site to train the future technicians of
Kauffman Tire and you made this dream come true," he said.

Following the address by Money, SGTC Vice President of Academic Affairs John
Watford, Ed.D., thanked the graduates on behalf of President Sparky Reeves for
choosing SGTC and then conveyed the rights and privileges associated with
earning the technical college certificate of credit in the automotive chassis
and climate control specialist program.

"The reason South Georgia Technical College partnered with Kauffman Tire is
because we share a core set of values with this company. We believe in
excellence and work ethics. Do the best you can do every day. You have come too
far to only come this far. Set yourself a new goal and every morning before you
go to work at Kauffman, look over that goal and work towards that goal."

Kauffman Tire is a family owned and operated retail and wholesale tire
distribution company that has been in operation since 1936.  Kauffman Tire and
SGTC have partnered together to provide educational training and internships
that can lead to great career opportunities with the third generation company.

Kauffman has opened stores in the Cordele and the Albany area and is currently
opening additional stores throughout South Georgia, North Florida, and Eastern
United States. The Kauffman Tire retail stores sell tires, but also provide oil
changes, preventive or scheduled maintenance, brake replacement, wheel
alignments, tire rotations, and other services to keep vehicles in top
condition.

Graduates of this technical certificate of credit program become technician
interns and are guaranteed an interview with the company for a temporary,
part-time or full-time position.  Graduates also have the potential to apply for
the technical, sales, or management career paths. Students receive hands-on
training in Kauffman Tire labs and stores.

To be eligible for the Kauffman Tire internship, students must be at least 18
years of age or older, be a HOPE grant recipient, have a current, valid Georgia
driver's license and acceptable driving record, be enrolled in a Kauffman
approved school automotive program, and must possess or pass Tire Industry
Association (TIA) Level 200 Certification within 30 days of assignment.

All regular Kauffman interviewing, hiring, and employment standards/protocols
apply and potential interns must comply with all other school and program
requirements. Kauffman Tire students are also eligible for reimbursement of the
costs of attending the SGTC automotive chassis and climate control specialist
program upon successful completion of the program followed by six months of
additional continuous Kauffman service.

Kauffman Tire operates over 55 retail stores in Georgia and Florida; fourteen
wholesale distribution centers in seven states and the e-commerce site Tread
Depot. Kauffman Tire offers daily delivery to customers out of all wholesale
centers, with a fleet of approximately 150 vehicles.

Kauffman Tire is a leader in the industry in retail, wholesale, commercial and
E-commerce division. They are looking for individuals with a strong work ethic,
positive attitude and entrepreneurial spirit. Kauffman Tire's expansive business
model provides employment opportunities to people of all educational and
professional backgrounds with opportunity for career advancement within the
company.

The automotive technician positions are responsible for servicing and repairing
vehicles. Techs use state-of-the-art diagnostic resources to expertly diagnose
vehicle problems, accurately prescribe/estimate correct repair action(s) and
promptly deliver the required service.

Compensation depends upon skills and experience. Company benefits include
health, dental, prescription drugs, vision, 401(K) savings plan, life insurance,
short term and long term disability insurance and advancement opportunities.

To learn more about the SGTC- Kauffman Tire internship program contact Mike
Olsson at molsson@kauffmantire.com or 404-762-4944.

___ (c)2015 The Americus Times-Recorder (Americus, Ga.) Visit The Americus
Times-Recorder (Americus, Ga.) at www.americustimesrecorder.com Distributed by
Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20150616-AF-SGTC-hosts-Kauffman-Tire-graduate-recognition-ceremony-0616-20150616

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AF


                     Copyright 2015 Americus Times Recorder

                              882 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      May 13, 2015 Wednesday 12:21 AM GMT

Bid to reduce excess medical tests

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 516 words


A campaign to cut down on unnecessary treatment on patients is being launched in
the UK this week.

The Choosing Wisely programme aims to encourage doctors to question whether
certain interventions have any real benefit to individual patients, and is being
led by t he Academy of Medical Royal Colleges, which represents all 21 medical
royal colleges in the UK.

The initiative, which was started in the United States and Canada to tackle
over-diagnosis and the wasting of resources, has also been adopted in a number
of other countries, including Germany, Switzerland, Japan and the Netherlands.

It was set up in response to a "culture of 'more is better,' where the onus is
on doctors to ' do something' at each consultation," British health experts
supporting the programme wrote in the BMJ.

They said this had led to unbalanced decision making and patients, "sometimes
being offered treatments that have only minor benefit and minimal evidence
despite the potential for substantial harm and expense.

"This culture threatens the sustainability of high quality healthcare and stems
from defensive medicine, patient pressures, biased reporting in medical
journals, commercial conflicts of interest, and a lack of understanding of
health statistics and risk."

They add that the payment by results system of the NHS in England "in reality is
often a payment by activity and encourages providers to do more both in primary
and secondary care".

Their article highlights how a recent study revealed that when patients were
told the lack of prognostic benefit for angioplasty, only 46% elected to go
ahead with the procedure compared to 69% who were not explicitly given this
information.

The idea of the programme is that patients should also be encouraged to ask if
tests are really needed.

Participating organisations will be asked to identify tests or procedures
commonly used in their field, whose necessity should be questioned and whose
risks and benefits should be discussed with patients before using them.

These will be compiled into lists, and the top five interventions for each
speciality should not be used routinely or at all.

The BMJ piece cited a recent report by the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges,
which "argued that doctors have an ethical responsibility to reduce this wasted
use of clinical resource because, in a healthcare system with finite resources,
one doctor's waste is another patient's delay".

The academy said an audit will be carried out for each medical royal college and
faculty to identify tests which they believe are of questionable value. The
results will be published in the autumn and a public campaign will then be
launched to spread awareness amongst doctors and patients.

Its chairwoman, Professor Dame Sue Bailey, said: "The whole point of Choosing
Wisely is to encourage doctors to have conversations with their patients and
about the value of a treatment.

"It's not and will never be about refusing treatment or in any way jeopardising
safety. It's just about taking a grown-up approach to healthcare and being good
stewards of the resources we have."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              883 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Valley Leader

                            August 17, 2017 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Students finding the right fit at Brandon University; Brandon University offers
some of the most affordable tuition rates in Canada

SECTION: EDUCATION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 502  words

DATELINE: BRANDON, Man.


Don't worry, we understand.

Choosing the next step in your education is an exciting, and stressful,
decision, and today there are more choices than ever. By now you've probably
looked into several universities or colleges offering a wide range of courses
and the promise of setting yourself on a long and rewarding career path.

The truth is, there are many great options out there, but only one you, and
that's why it's so important to make the right choice for you.

Right now, more and more students like you are finding that fit at Brandon
University. We offer outstanding educational programs, some of the most
affordable tuition rates in Canada and small class sizes that allow you to
really connect with everyone else on campus.

"You really get to know the professors, the staff and the other students," says
BU student Trevor McIntyre. "That familiarity makes you feel comfortable and
helps you to get the most out of your courses."

Everything we do is done with you as our top priority. You'll join 3,300 fellow
students, making BU large enough to offer you degrees from the Faculties of
Arts, Education, Health Studies and Science as well the School of Music, while
still having a compact feel. Our professors take you beyond the classroom to
share with you some of their cutting-edge research. You'll attend engaging
lectures, combined with valuable hands-on experience.

Many BU alumni go on to prestigious graduate programs, including our growing
list of Master's degrees in Rural Development, Education, Psychiatric Nursing,
Music and Science (Environmental and Life Studies).

With so many choices open to you, we'll help you out every step along the way,
starting before you even arrive. As a new student, you'll take part in advisory
sessions, helping you plan which courses will help lead you to your goals.
Student mentors and support from faculty and staff are available all through
your time here to help you do your best at whatever you choose.

"Some people come to us and know exactly what they want to study, but most are
still looking for the right fit," says Courtney Adams, our Acting Director of
Recruitment and Retention. "By talking to students about their interests we can
help them decide between options they're already considering or even suggest
some ideas they haven't thought of yet."

Brandon is a safe, friendly city of 50,000 people, and BU offers big-school
amenities at our convenient, walkable campus. Our students enjoy the comforts of
home in our residence and dining facilities, on-campus bookstore, hair salon,
coffee shop, state-of-the art fitness and recreation centre and the Indigenous
Peoples'Centre Like our students, BU is looking forward to a bright future,
building on the strengths of our traditions, while embracing the challenges of a
changing world. "It's an exciting time to be at BU," says Adams. "You can see it
in our faculty and in our students as well. There's a willingness to be
innovative and be creative."

Learn more about your exciting future at brandonu.ca.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / (See hardcopy for photo);

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 The Valley Leader
                              All Rights Reserved

                              884 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Winkler Times

                            August 17, 2017 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Students finding the right fit at Brandon University; Brandon University offers
some of the most affordable tuition rates in Canada

SECTION: EDUCATION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 502  words

DATELINE: BRANDON, Man.


Don't worry, we understand.

Choosing the next step in your education is an exciting, and stressful,
decision, and today there are more choices than ever. By now you've probably
looked into several universities or colleges offering a wide range of courses
and the promise of setting yourself on a long and rewarding career path.

The truth is, there are many great options out there, but only one you, and
that's why it's so important to make the right choice for you.

Right now, more and more students like you are finding that fit at Brandon
University. We offer outstanding educational programs, some of the most
affordable tuition rates in Canada and small class sizes that allow you to
really connect with everyone else on campus.

"You really get to know the professors, the staff and the other students," says
BU student Trevor McIntyre. "That familiarity makes you feel comfortable and
helps you to get the most out of your courses."

Everything we do is done with you as our top priority. You'll join 3,300 fellow
students, making BU large enough to offer you degrees from the Faculties of
Arts, Education, Health Studies and Science as well the School of Music, while
still having a compact feel. Our professors take you beyond the classroom to
share with you some of their cutting-edge research. You'll attend engaging
lectures, combined with valuable hands-on experience.

Many BU alumni go on to prestigious graduate programs, including our growing
list of Master's degrees in Rural Development, Education, Psychiatric Nursing,
Music and Science (Environmental and Life Studies).

With so many choices open to you, we'll help you out every step along the way,
starting before you even arrive. As a new student, you'll take part in advisory
sessions, helping you plan which courses will help lead you to your goals.
Student mentors and support from faculty and staff are available all through
your time here to help you do your best at whatever you choose.

"Some people come to us and know exactly what they want to study, but most are
still looking for the right fit," says Courtney Adams, our Acting Director of
Recruitment and Retention. "By talking to students about their interests we can
help them decide between options they're already considering or even suggest
some ideas they haven't thought of yet."

Brandon is a safe, friendly city of 50,000 people, and BU offers big-school
amenities at our convenient, walkable campus. Our students enjoy the comforts of
home in our residence and dining facilities, on-campus bookstore, hair salon,
coffee shop, state-of-the art fitness and recreation centre and the Indigenous
Peoples'Centre Like our students, BU is looking forward to a bright future,
building on the strengths of our traditions, while embracing the challenges of a
changing world. "It's an exciting time to be at BU," says Adams. "You can see it
in our faculty and in our students as well. There's a willingness to be
innovative and be creative."

Learn more about your exciting future at brandonu.ca.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / (See hardcopy for photo);

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 Winkler Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              885 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Morris Daily Herald (Illinois)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           August 12, 2015 Wednesday

Joliet Junior College trustees seek to fill board vacancy

BYLINE: Felix Sarver, Morris Daily Herald, Ill.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 525 words


Aug. 12--JOLIET -- Joliet Junior College Board trustees are figuring out how to
fill a board vacancy after Jeff May resigned as chairman for health reasons.

At Tuesday's board meeting, trustees discussed the option of choosing a
candidate who previously ran in the April 7 election or opening the position to
the public for applicants.

With May's resignation, trustees will have 60 days to fill the vacancy
themselves, following the Illinois Public Community College Act.

May's term was from 2011 to 2017. After having a minor stroke in late July, May
was advised by his doctor to resign to reduce stress.

Tina Markley, former vice chairwoman who is now filling May's position, said she
favored honoring voters and selecting a candidate who ran in the April 7
election. She said the board should use the election results to find a new
trustee.

The candidates from that election include Susan Marie Klen, Michael Venegas,
Diane M. Harris and Sharon Cemeno-Hicks. Trustees Maureen Broderick and Robert
Wunderlich also ran in that election and were the only ones to win.

"The people of our district spoke and being that [the election] was only four
months ago, I think we should honor that and listen to what the people chose,"
Markley said.

Broderick said in her past experience with a school board, members can chose
whoever they want to put in. She said the majority of May's term is over and she
recommended selecting anybody who chose to apply.

Markley said her idea of picking a new trustee received support from legal
counsel and she thought it was a "transparent method of putting somebody to fill
the position."

She asked why filling the vacancy should be left up to the trustees. Broderick
responded it is standard practice with school districts. She said later that
opening the position up to the public rather than someone who ran in the April 7
election had a "broader sense of transparency than just picking somebody who
lost."

"I've been on the boards that I've seen that we do not pick those from the ones
who lost [the election]. We put it in the paper and we let the board decide.
Because we didn't expect Jeff to resign," she said.

Mihelich said he would like to use the same process of choosing a new candidate
that was done with Trustee Michael O'Connell, who was appointed to the board in
2009 to replace the late Dick Dystrup. The board at the time interviewed
applicants to fill a vacancy.

Other board matters

Trustees unanimously approved the appointment of Caroline Portlock as workforce
development director. Portlock is the executive director of the Grundy County
Chamber of Commerce.

She will replace Paige Vanderhyden, who resigned June 26. Portlock's annual
salary will be $75,083, and her anticipated start date is in September.

The board also unanimously approved the resignation of Karl Brooks, former dean
of student success and interim student development vice president. Brooks said
at a July 28 board workshop meeting he will move on to Oakton Community College.

___ (c)2015 the Morris Daily Herald (Morris, Ill.) Visit the Morris Daily Herald
(Morris, Ill.) at www.morrisdailyherald.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150812-1MO-Joliet-Junior-College
-trustees-seek-to-fill-board-vacancy-0812-20150812

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1MO


                       Copyright 2015 Morris Daily Herald

                              886 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 28, 1995

EDUCATION LETTER: HIDDEN AGENDAS AND PUBLIC SCHOOL BIAS

BYLINE: Helen Bellamy

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN EDUCATION PAGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 360 words


THE statistics presented by Gerard McCrum show a significant decline in the
proportion of state-educated women among A-level high-flyers reading arts
subjects at the traditional universities.

Dr McCrum deduces that there has been a 'drop in academic quality of state
-educated women'. But his data are insufficient to justify his conclusion.

Alternative hypotheses com- patible with his results include: (1) high-flying
state-educated women are increasingly choosing to follow non-arts degree
courses; (2) high-flying state-educated women choosing to follow arts degree
courses are increasingly opting for the non-traditional courses offered by new
universities, university colleges, institutes of education and further education
colleges; (3) privately-educated high-flyers are being channelled into
traditional universities rather than being encouraged to give equal
consideration to other types of institution; and (4) some combination of these
factors is at work.

Can further statistics/information be supplied to show if Dr McCrum's
interpretation is valid? Only if he has correctly identified the problem is it
necessary to consider his suggested remedy.

- Helen Bellamy, Barnsley, S.Yorks.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              887 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 7, 2006 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Fontbonne headlines tournament

BYLINE: By Todd Hejna SPECIAL TO THE POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. B30

LENGTH: 251 words


Fontbonne University, which fielded the first NCAA men's lacrosse team in
Missouri, is one of six teams that will take part in the sixth annual A.T.G.
Super Turf Fall Face-Off Tournament today at the Anheuser-Busch Center in
Fenton.

The event features some of the top lacrosse programs in the country.

Fontbonne will square off against Wittenberg University at noon, followed by a
match between Denison University and Wheeling Jesuit University at 2 p.m. An
exhibition between Lindenwood University and the University of Illinois kicks
things off at 11:30 a.m.

Tournament director Mike Sennett said, "Fontbonne has made a huge commitment to
the sport by starting both a men's and women's NCAA program here in St. Louis.
We couldn't think of a better school to showcase in this year's event."

Fontbonne's roster includes 18 players from the St. Louis and Columbia, Mo.,
areas, plus players from five other states.

"Our inaugural recruiting class is stacked with student-athletes from Missouri,"
Fontbonne coach Nick Silva said. "These student-athletes aren't choosing
Fontbonne because of lacrosse, they're choosing Fontbonne because it's a great
school. I make sure of that before they commit regardless where they're from."

Wittenberg, located in Springfield, Ohio, has had more student-athletes from
Missouri play NCAA lacrosse than any other university, with six players from St.
Louis on its current roster.

General admission tickets are $10, with proceeds supporting the development of
youth lacrosse in Missouri.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  lacrosse

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              888 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                            February 24, 2006 Friday

Make Olympia your choice

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 371 words


ACOLLEGE education is not easy, especially if you don't have rich parents to
foot the bill for you. Education after high school costs a time, money, and
effort.

Since it's a big investment, it's important that you evaluate the college you
are considering.

Another critical decision will be choosing the field of study.

Choosing the field you are going to pursue is the most important decision you
will need to make, and that too in a short period of time.

Olympia offers courses in Business, Computing & Information Science, Accounting
and Finance and Secretarial.

A Business Studies Programme will build a foundation for those who wish to move
on to study and train in specialised areas such as management, international
business, marketing, accounting, information technology, computer applications
or entrepreneurship.

The business discipline has

many career selections to pick from. With majors like accounting, banking and
finance, management, economics, marketing, international business, e-commerce
and econometrics, business students are in a dilemma over which career pathway
to take.

The computing programmes offered by the School of Computing & Information
Science of Olympia College focuses on Networking, Multimedia, Software
Development, Database, E-Commerce, Management & Business Information Systems,
System Engineering, Computer Science, Business Commuting, Graphic Design and
Project Management.

Students pick accounting because it is associated with power, money and work
environment.

The Certified Accounting Technician (CAT) Programme at Olympia equips you with
technical skills and knowledge to fulfil a support role in accountancy.

Upon completion of the CAT, students can move to Part 2 of the ACCA Professional
Scheme exams.

In addition, students can obtain a BSc (Hons) in Applied Accounting Degree from
Oxford Brookes University (UK) on completion of Part 2 of the Professional
Scheme exams.

To gain knowledge and training to become a secretary, Olympia provides an
Executive Secretarial Programme at its six centres.

For details, call 03-20503688 (Kuala Lumpur), 03-79558868 (Petaling Jaya),
04-6584868 (Penang), 07-2233868 (Johor Baru), 09-5177868 (Kuantan) or 05-2433868
(Ipoh); or email raffles@olympia.edu.my

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Facon education fair 2006

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved

                              889 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                              June 17, 2016 Friday

Shon Loftus: Electoral College has done enough damage in US

BYLINE: By Shon Loftus

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 546 words


LENOX &GT;&GT; The Electoral College has chosen our president since the
establishment of that office in 1789. In most presidential elections, the vote
of the College reflected the vote of the people, leaving little room to
complain. But there were those rare cases when it went against the people's
will, choosing the candidate with fewer popular votes.

In 1876, Republican Rutherford Hayes came in second to Democrat Samuel Tilden in
the popular vote, yet was chosen by the electoral vote. In 2000, Republican
George W. Bush was elected even though he received fewer popular votes than
Democrat Al Gore.

The Electoral College is a horrible way of choosing the leader of the free
world. After doing extensive research from a number of sources for a research
paper on the topic, I found many reasons why the Electoral College is bad. Three
of the most critical reasons are: 11 voters from key states could decide the
entire election; the president could be elected with a plurality of votes; and
voters are not equal.

The College has 538 electors, so one candidate needs 270 votes to win. The 11
most populous states combined have a total of 270 electoral votes. Each state's
electors vote even if only one person in that state goes to vote. So if one
person in California went to vote, all of the state's 55 electors would vote for
the candidate who won that one vote. Therefore, if only one person in each of
the 11 most populous states went to vote on election day, and all 11 people
voted for the same candidate, that candidate would receive 270 electoral votes.
Even if millions of people in all the other states voted for the other
candidate, the one who received those 11 votes would win.

A state's electors all vote for the candidate that got the most votes in that
state, not the majority of votes. For example, if there were three candidates
and candidate A won 40 percent of the vote, candidate B won 35 percent, and
candidate C won 25 percent, all of the state's electors would vote for candidate
A, even though s/he didn't win the majority of the state. That candidate would
win all of that state's electors even though 60 percent of the people voted
against him/her. If this happened in every state, candidate A would become
president by winning only a plurality of the vote, as opposed to a majority.

When I say voters aren't equal, I mean voter turnout varies by state.
Hypothetically, if 100 people in one state went to vote, and 10 people in
another state went to vote, one voter in the latter state would have more
influence over who his/her state's electoral votes went to than a person voting
in the state with 100 voters. Voter equality doesn't exist with an Electoral
College. Under this system, one person does not equal one vote.

These examples show that our electoral system does not encourage democracy. It
instead suppresses democracy. One could argue that the US is a quasi-democracy
like China and Russia. This system has cheated us before by ignoring the
people's will in 1876 and 2000 when the candidate with fewer votes was elected.

We need to change to a direct vote by the people. The mere fact that the popular
vote can be ignored should be reason enough to ban the Electoral College.

Shon Loftus is a junior at Lenox Memorial Middle and High School.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              890 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            March 12, 2016 Saturday
                                 Mumbai Edition

TYBA exams in just 9 days instead of 75

BYLINE: Yogita.Rao@timesgroup.com

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 348 words


Mumbai Universi y's third year BA (TYBA) exam, which usually takes around 75
days to get over, will be wrapped up in just about nine working days this year
(April 20 to May 2).

The move will benefit students and teachers with timely declaration of results
and subsequently early postgraduate admissions. Though college principals have
welcomed the move, they are a bit apprehensive about its implementation.

Around 20,000 TYBA students will appear for the exams. The new timetable is
available on the university's website. The university will be conducting two set
of exams for students who have opted for double major, while all single major
exams will be conduc ed at a stretch. The university will use two sets of
question papers for the second set of double major exams to avoid duplication.

For several years now, students were forced to appear for six papers stretched
over two months. The university offers around 45 subjects for TYBA students.
Combinations of subjects as 'single major' or double major' can be
chosen.Students choosing a single ma or, for example in psychology , will have
six psychology papers to attempt. Students choosing double major, say in
economics and psychology , will have to appear for three papers each in the two
subjects. It is to avoid a clash of papers that the university has till now
conduc ed the exams over two and a

half months. But this led to late results and a subsequent delay in postgraduate
admissions.

Deepak Wasave, in-charge controller of examinations, said, "Exams starting in
Marchend sometimes used to go on till the first week of June. The results of the
exam were announced by July-end, delaying MA admissions. Students who wished to
go abroad had to take adrop due to the delay . The new system will ensure
students do not lose their vacation and teachers too will get enough time to
assess papers; the work will not spill over into the new academic year."

KC College principal Manju Nichani said the process once implemented smoothly
will benefit students. SIES College principal Harsha Mehta said the move will
ensure early results.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              891 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                              June 1, 2014 Sunday

Choosing a major

SECTION: REFLEJOS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 285 words


(collegeboard.org) -- Some students start college knowing exactly what they want
to major in. Others are unsure of what major to take. These are some of the
questions your child should ask.

What is a college major?

Students are required to graduate in a specific professional field in order to
show that they have done high-level work in a field. Depending on the
university, your child can major in two fields, have a major and a minor, or
even create their own major.

When should a major be picked?

In most universities, students are not required to pick a major until the end of
their sophomore year. If your child is in a two-year program, more than likely
they will have to choose a major from the start because the study time is much
shorter.

How does a student choose?

Freshmen and sophomores usually take more general courses when they try to
choose a major. After an initial period of testing options, classes become more
specific. However, your child should make sure they have a genuine interest.
Choosing a major by elimination is not effective and could take too long.

Your child should take classes in subjects that appeal to them and then try to
focus on topics that will interest and motivate them. This way your child will
get better results and will continue to be motivated in college.

Will the major dictate my child's profession?

Sometimes. If a student picks a major such as nursing, accounting or
engineering, they're learning a specific trade and will probably continue on the
same road. However, most majors prepare students for a range of activities they
will master once they graduate. For most students, picking a major is not the
same as choosing a career. Only your child knows what they like.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              892 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                          February 14, 2018 Wednesday
                               Australian Edition

Health waste: spinal fusion added to list

BYLINE: SEAN PARNELL, SARAH-JANE TASKER; EXCLUSIVE

SECTION: THENATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 793  words


AN UNHEALTHY SYSTEM Spinal fusion for unexplained back pain will today be put on
the list of unnecessary, wasteful and risky medical procedures, promising
patients more clarity over their options and potentially saving the health
system tens of millions of dollar a year.

The move comes after The Australian revealed health insurers had nominated a
reduction in spinal fusion surgery as one of the doctor-led responses required
to contain the rising costs that are driving up premiums. Even a 20 per cent
reduction in hospital cases would save the industry $60 million a year, with
flow-on savings for members.

The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority has warned that insurers are
"under duress" and more work needs to be done to reduce costs and stabilise the
industry. Its latest figures, -released yesterday, showed the proportion of
Australians with hospital cover had fallen again, to 45.6 per cent, the lowest
rate since mid-2011.

While spinal fusion surgery may have a role in cases of spinal instability, in
recent years it has often been used in an attempt to treat chronic low back pain
where there is no obvious cause. Experts are alarmed by the trend and,
-according to one estimate, the surgery cost $2.3 billion over a -10-year period
despite more than half of those operations likely being unnecessary.

The pain medicine faculty of the Australian and New Zealand College of
Anaesthetists has now recommended that spinal fusion be added to the list of
unnecessary procedures being developed through the professions-led -initiative
Choosing Wisely.

The college is urging doctors not to refer patients with axial or mechanical
lower back pain for spinal fusion surgery. It is one of five recommendations
from the pain experts for the list, with some of the others being not to
prescribe benzodiazepines for low back pain and to avoid prescribing opioids for
patients in chronic non-cancer pain where the risks outweigh any benefits. The
college's Mick Vagg said yesterday it was hoped that by -advising against spinal
fusion surgery, clinicians and their patients would be able to focus on other
options.

"It is also legitimising people choosing not to have surgery," said Dr Vagg, a
pain medicine physician. "A surgeon once said to me he spent four times as much
time talking to people he wasn't going to operate on than those he was going to
operate on. That's because sometimes it is more psychologically comforting to do
something than not." Medibank has estimated that about 2000 of its members have
spinal fusion surgery each year, costing just under $35,000 each. There is also
a huge disparity in the rates of surgery, depending on where it takes place and
whether in the public or private system. The Australian Commission on Safety and
Quality in Health Care found variation by area on a factor of 6.9. It noted that
spinal -fusion surgery in NSW increased by 2 per cent between 1997 and 2006 in
the public system - and by 167 per cent in the private -sector.

Private Healthcare Australia head Rachel David said spinal fusion was another
example of where evidence-based medicine helped patients and the system.

"We know that probably only around 20 patients out of every 100 who get spinal
fusion surgery are helped by it," Dr David said. "But it gets a lot of funding
through the (Medicare Benefits Schedule) and doctors will just come back and say
we don't know which 20 per cent benefit, so they are continuing to operate on
people. That is the difficulty, when the evidence is unclear about patient
selection and the MBS continues to pay, it is difficult under our regulatory
system not to pay." APRA figures show the level of hospital treatment benefits
paid by insurers was 4.7 per cent higher in the December quarter than the same
period the year before. But the average out-of-pocket cost for patients in that
period increased 6.1 per cent.

Dr David said health insurers returned more of their premiums to members than
any other insurance category. She suggested the figures would also put lie to
the claims, most recently made by Labor leader Bill Shorten, that some health
insurers were making 25 per cent profits, in comments that appeared to reflect
he confused a return on equity measure with profit.

"Health fund profit margins were 5.16 per cent in the 12 months to December 2017
and health fund profits have remained stable over the last decade running
between 4.5 and 6 per cent, significantly below the returns made by private
hospital groups and medical specialist practices," she said.The continued slide
in the proportion of Australians with hospital cover - 12,294 fewer members in
the quarter - came after Health Minister Greg Hunt announced a package of
reforms and before he approved long-time low premium increases.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian


                   Copyright 2018 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              893 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                          February 14, 2018 Wednesday
                               Australian Edition

Health waste: spinal fusion added to list

BYLINE: SEAN PARNELL, SARAH-JANE TASKER; EXCLUSIVE

SECTION: THENATION; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 793  words


AN UNHEALTHY SYSTEM Spinal fusion for unexplained back pain will today be put on
the list of unnecessary, wasteful and risky medical procedures, promising
patients more clarity over their options and potentially saving the health
system tens of millions of dollar a year.

The move comes after The Australian revealed health insurers had nominated a
reduction in spinal fusion surgery as one of the doctor-led responses required
to contain the rising costs that are driving up premiums. Even a 20 per cent
reduction in hospital cases would save the industry $60 million a year, with
flow-on savings for members.

The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority has warned that insurers are
"under duress" and more work needs to be done to reduce costs and stabilise the
industry. Its latest figures, -released yesterday, showed the proportion of
Australians with hospital cover had fallen again, to 45.6 per cent, the lowest
rate since mid-2011.

While spinal fusion surgery may have a role in cases of spinal instability, in
recent years it has often been used in an attempt to treat chronic low back pain
where there is no obvious cause. Experts are alarmed by the trend and,
-according to one estimate, the surgery cost $2.3 billion over a -10-year period
despite more than half of those operations likely being unnecessary.

The pain medicine faculty of the Australian and New Zealand College of
Anaesthetists has now recommended that spinal fusion be added to the list of
unnecessary procedures being developed through the professions-led -initiative
Choosing Wisely.

The college is urging doctors not to refer patients with axial or mechanical
lower back pain for spinal fusion surgery. It is one of five recommendations
from the pain experts for the list, with some of the others being not to
prescribe benzodiazepines for low back pain and to avoid prescribing opioids for
patients in chronic non-cancer pain where the risks outweigh any benefits. The
college's Mick Vagg said yesterday it was hoped that by -advising against spinal
fusion surgery, clinicians and their patients would be able to focus on other
options.

"It is also legitimising people choosing not to have surgery," said Dr Vagg, a
pain medicine physician. "A surgeon once said to me he spent four times as much
time talking to people he wasn't going to operate on than those he was going to
operate on. That's because sometimes it is more psychologically comforting to do
something than not." Medibank has estimated that about 2000 of its members have
spinal fusion surgery each year, costing just under $35,000 each. There is also
a huge disparity in the rates of surgery, depending on where it takes place and
whether in the public or private system. The Australian Commission on Safety and
Quality in Health Care found variation by area on a factor of 6.9. It noted that
spinal -fusion surgery in NSW increased by 2 per cent between 1997 and 2006 in
the public system - and by 167 per cent in the private -sector.

Private Healthcare Australia head Rachel David said spinal fusion was another
example of where evidence-based medicine helped patients and the system.

"We know that probably only around 20 patients out of every 100 who get spinal
fusion surgery are helped by it," Dr David said. "But it gets a lot of funding
through the (Medicare Benefits Schedule) and doctors will just come back and say
we don't know which 20 per cent benefit, so they are continuing to operate on
people. That is the difficulty, when the evidence is unclear about patient
selection and the MBS continues to pay, it is difficult under our regulatory
system not to pay." APRA figures show the level of hospital treatment benefits
paid by insurers was 4.7 per cent higher in the December quarter than the same
period the year before. But the average out-of-pocket cost for patients in that
period increased 6.1 per cent.

Dr David said health insurers returned more of their premiums to members than
any other insurance category. She suggested the figures would also put lie to
the claims, most recently made by Labor leader Bill Shorten, that some health
insurers were making 25 per cent profits, in comments that appeared to reflect
he confused a return on equity measure with profit.

"Health fund profit margins were 5.16 per cent in the 12 months to December 2017
and health fund profits have remained stable over the last decade running
between 4.5 and 6 per cent, significantly below the returns made by private
hospital groups and medical specialist practices," she said.The continued slide
in the proportion of Australians with hospital cover - 12,294 fewer members in
the quarter - came after Health Minister Greg Hunt announced a package of
reforms and before he approved long-time low premium increases.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian


                   Copyright 2018 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              894 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                             June 6, 2013 Thursday

Obama's failings may predict his successor

BYLINE: troy senik Register columnist, The Orange County Register

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B

LENGTH: 684 words



HIGHLIGHT: Voters tend to prefer a contrast with the incumbent.


Choosing a president is a little like choosing a spouse: If you've got any
sense, you'll learn from past mistakes.

Look at the past 60 years of presidential politics, and you'll see a nearly
unbroken string of commanders-in-chief elected to compensate for the
shortcomings of their predecessors. Harry Truman, seemingly in over his head in
Korea, was replaced by a paragon of military competence, Dwight Eisenhower. Ike,
the avuncular totem of the workaday 1950s, was succeeded by John F. Kennedy, the
personification of early 1960s cool. Lyndon Johnson, crippled by the stalemate
of the Vietnam War, was followed by Richard Nixon, whose penchant for
ruthlessness seemed just the thing to break the logjam in Southeast Asia.

After Nixon violated the national trust, voters turned to Jimmy Carter, a
born-again Southerner with a taste for ostentatious humility and a pledge that
he would never lie to the American people. When Carter proved feckless and dour,
the can-do optimism of Ronald Reagan swept him from office.

George H.W. Bush seemed like a cold, distant patrician during the recession of
the early 1990s, sending the nation into the loving arms of Bill Clinton, who
was capable of empathizing on cue (and on an industrial scale). After Clinton
spent the better part of his second term defending his extracurricular
activities, George W. Bush pledged to "restore honor and dignity" to the White
House. Following eight years of Bush's "decider" persona and spasmodic rhetoric,
Barack Obama won the nation over with velvety oratory and a decision-making
style that bordered on Jesuitical.

When you look back on that list, you notice another commonality between picking
partners and picking presidents: the virtues that at first render them
attractive often play a role in their alienation.

That's what we're seeing these days with Barack Obama. His once-silver tongue is
now leaden, his endless speeches becoming one prolonged, unintelligible drone,
like the voice of the unseen teacher in "Peanuts" cartoons. And that
sophisticated, on-the-one-hand-on-the-other-hand thought process is starting to
look like little more than elegant indecision. Obama was once a college lecturer
who wanted to be president. In his modern incarnation, he often seems like a
president who wants to be a college lecturer.

If the theory of presidential contrasts holds, what does that mean for 2016?
What personality traits will appeal to a nation that has just endured eight
years of Barack Obama?

Well, competence, for one. This isn't a cheap shot at Obama. These days, calling
someone "incompetent" is too often shorthand for saying you disagree with him.
In the president's case, however, there seems to be a legitimate difficulty in
getting his arms around the federal government. In the current deluge of federal
scandals - the Benghazi terrorist attacks, the IRS abuse of conservative
nonprofits, the Justice Department's monitoring of journalists - the common
thread has been a detached president who usually seems to be the last person to
know what's going on. At a time when the federal government is bigger and
less-accountable (the correlation is not a coincidence) than ever before, a
president incapable of wrestling the leviathan state to the ground won't do.

The electorate will also likely be in search of clarity. Obama is famous for his
"no drama" dictum, but, in practice, that tends to play out as "no passion." In
a recent speech at the National Defense University, for example, the commander
in chief carried on for paragraphs at a time on the virtues and corresponding
vices of drone warfare. It was clear that the president had thought long and
hard about the issue - but not at all clear that he had made up his mind.

If Obama holds to the historical pattern (and that's not inevitable - George
H.W. Bush, for instance, essentially won Ronald Reagan's third term), his
departure from office will coincide with a national yearning for a take-charge,
straight-talking executive. In other words, potential 2016 candidates should
immediately start thinking about how they're going to ward off Chris Christie.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie answers a question during a news
conference, Tuesday, June 4, in Trenton, N.J. Christie will set an October
special election to fill the U.S. Senate seat made vacant by Frank Lautenberg's
death.

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved

                              895 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 08, 2000, Wednesday

Bush Telegraph on titles

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 256 words

BETTY Boothroyd, the former Speaker, has been told by the College of Arms that,
if she wishes to retain her Christian name when she is elevated to the House of
Lords, she will have to change her name by deed poll. Miss Boothroyd has yet to
decide whether to follow the example of Lord George-Brown, the former Labour
foreign secretary, and adopt the title Baroness Betty-Boothroyd.

The diplomat Gladwyn Jebb, when ennobled in 1960, rejected his surname, choosing
instead to be known as Lord Gladwyn. If she followed this lead, Miss Boothroyd
would be known as Lady Betty.

Andrew Lloyd Webber was forced to add a hyphen to his surname on his appointment
to the Lords. The College of Arms pointed out that, if a duke or marquess whose
surname was Webber gave the name "Lloyd" to a younger son, there would be two
Lord Lloyd Webbers.

David Lloyd George (who ignored the hyphenation rule when granted an earldom in
1945) was notoriously slow to bestow peerages - even when they had been paid
for. One would-be peer is said to have solved this problem by signing his cheque
with the title promised him.

The free hand given to new peers when choosing their titles can be a dangerous
temptation. Michael Ashcroft originally joked that he would like to become Lord
Ashcroft of Belize. Although he settled for Chichester, the nickname has stuck.

Some Labour peers are eager to abolish titles. Lady Jay, Leader of the Lords,
has said that she would prefer to be known as ML or Member of the Lords.
[PS]Features: [ES]

Comment:

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 Telegraph Group Limited

                              896 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                             May 14, 2005, Saturday

Teens fret, often needlessly, about making career choice

BYLINE: By Michael Kinsman

LENGTH: 757 words



As a career counselor, Linda Scales has lived through the days of graduating
college seniors complaining about their job prospects.

But today, the director of career services at the University of San Diego thinks
the issue has changed direction.

"I really think there may be too many options out there for graduates," Scales
says. "Students are telling me they are overwhelmed by their choices."

In the view of some, this might actually seem like a rather pleasant problem.
Yet, Scales says having a wide range of options can be intimidating, simply
because of the pressure the students put on themselves to make the right choice.

"They are asking themselves if they can see a career path if they start in a
particular industry," she says. "They wonder if they begin law school, if they
will consider it a worthwhile experience if they decide later they don't want to
become a lawyer."

Certainly, the stakes seem higher today than ever when choosing a career.

High school students take internships and do community service work just so they
can get into the college of their choosing to pursue a major that will lead them
to a certain career.

Career counselor Richard Bolles, author of the timeless "What Color Is Your
Parachute," says that one in four college graduates wind up underemployed or
without jobs.

It's easy to see why young people get so worked up about that first career step.

But Rebecca Haddock, regional director of communications and outreach for High
Tech High School in San Diego, offers some wisdom to young job seekers.

"There is no perfect job, so why should you put pressure on yourself to find
one?" she asks.

Instead, Haddock would prefer that students make education a priority until they
feel comfortable making a career choice.

"Choosing a career is a major decision and some young people are not mature
enough to handle making such a big decision," she says. "At the same time, you
don't want people to use that as an excuse to drop out of college, or not go to
college at all.

"How many 28- or 29-year-olds wished they could be back in college again?"

Yet, most people go through a serious consideration of career options early in
their lives, knowing how a job choice can help shape their future.

Doug Elliot, school-to-career coordinator of Morse High School, encourages
parents to counsel their children, help them find internships or job shadowing
experiences in careers they may eventually want to pursue.

"You have to do something to get students connected to the world of work to show
the relevance of their education," he says. "If you can get them into a work
situation that they want to pursue as a career, that can often motivate them to
study harder."

Elliot says too many students take part-time jobs that lead them nowhere, teach
them nothing about the career they might eventually pursue.

"You have to find a goal out there," he says. "Even if it's a fuzzy goal, it
still leads you in a direction."

A recent survey by Yahoo! Hotjobs reported that this year's graduating class
seems to be faring better than in recent years. The survey of 700 college
seniors found that 37.4 percent have landed jobs before graduation, compared
with 14.4 percent last year.

Scales has been seeking to defuse the stress college graduates feel by giving
them the freedom to experiment.

"I tell them that if they want to work for a hotel for a year and then take a
job abroad they should," she says. "Feeling free to do that and then evaluating
the experience without pressure often helps them clarify exactly what they want
to do."

Scales has been surprised by the attitudes of parents toward the career-
planning process.

"Students today seem more close to their parents these days, and that's very
healthy," she says. "From what I can tell, the parents understand the need for
their children to have experiences away from their career intentions and support
them in that."

There is a deep wisdom there that young people can learn from. Don't really
worry about where your career takes you, but enjoy the adventure every day and
you'll probably be happy where you end up.


-----

To see more of The San Diego Union-Tribune, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.uniontrib.com. Copyright (c) 2005, The San Diego Union-Tribune

Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News.

For information on republishing this content, contact us at (800) 661-2511
(U.S.), (213) 237-4914 (worldwide), fax (213) 237-6515, or e-mail
reprints@krtinfo.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

KR-ACC-NO: SD-CAREER-ADVICE-20050514

JOURNAL-CODE: SD

               Copyright 2005 Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News
                   Copyright 2005 The San Diego Union-Tribune

                              897 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                           August 16, 2008, Saturday

Forget academics, extracurriculars - here's how to pick a college

BYLINE: Emily Barksdale, St. Marys High School

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P6C

LENGTH: 442 words


Choosing a college to attend can be a very difficult and painstaking process.
You must whittle the thousands of potential colleges down to the one that's
right for you. There's location, size, cost and so much more to consider.

So why not simplify the process?

Follow these easy steps and you'll have your school picked in no time!

First, eliminate all two-name schools - William & Mary, Washington and Lee,
George Mason, etc. These names are irksome, and eliminating them is a great way
to chop that list of schools down quickly.

If, however, you are okay with double names, be sure to find another ridiculous
stipulation to enact in place of this rule. You could perhaps rule out all
schools whose postal code is more than two letters or cross off all schools that
start with the letter S.

Another piece of advice to follow when choosing a school is to make sure that
your preferred school does not begin with the same letter as your first name.
For instance, my name is Emily, so I should not attend Emory University.

If your name is William, do not attend West Virginia University, and if your
name is Matthew, stay away from Marshall. For all you Wilmas out there, West
Virginia Wesleyan is probably not the best fit.

Next, make sure that the school colors don't clash. Virginia Tech, I have two
words for you: COLOR. WHEEL.

The school colors must also complement your skin tone. If you are very
light-skinned, don't go somewhere where the primary color will wash you out. If,
on the other hand, your skin has a more yellowish tint, then for goodness' sake,
don't attend Wake Forest or another school whose main color is gold!

Bonus points if your college colors replicate your high school colors. For me,
both St. Marys High School and Furman University pride themselves on a purple
scheme.

Finally, make sure that the school has A) a good mascot and B) said mascot fits
your lifestyle.

For instance, if you consider yourself a maverick of sorts, do not attend a
school whose mascot is a tiger. Consider, instead, going to the University of
Richmond and becoming a spider - talk about original!

If, however, you prefer to blend in, absolutely do not try to be a paladin like
myself. Go for the bears and knights of the college world.

You can also follow the common grammatical aphorism "when in doubt, leave it
out." If something strikes you the wrong way, like, say, the color of the dorm
bathrooms, you are not all of a sudden going to forget about it, so it's best
that you just eliminate this annoyance from the get-go.

You have to start the college decision process somewhere, so why not jump in
with these rules? You'll have your selection made in no time!

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Charleston Newspapers

                              898 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                             July 16, 2015 Thursday

DU TURNS A NEWPAGE FOR FRESHERS

BYLINE: Astha Saxena in New Delhi

LENGTH: 594  words


Credit system to give varsity students more options and better perspectives

COME JULY 20 and Delhi University will enter a brand new chapter in its journey
that will offer students a plethora of choices in terms of choosing subjects to
their liking. After the university's Academic Council and the Executive
Council's approval of the Choice Based Credit System (CBCS), students can now
look forward to taking up inter-disciplinary/extra-departmental papers/courses
along with major/honours courses. Till last year, the university was following
the much-controversial Four-Year Undergraduate Programme (FYUP). The CBCS had
also received its fair share of criticism from a large number of teachers and
academicians who expressed their disapproval of the syllabi of the course under
the system. But post-roadblocks, Delhi University will join the ranks of some
prominent universities that have been following the CBCS for quite long.

Ambedkar University Delhi has been allowing its students to choose from among
the bouquet of courses since inception. Other universities that also follow the
CBCS are Jawaharlal Nehru University, Amity University, Shiv Nadar University.
Prof Umesh Rai, director, South Campus, DU, said, "The decision to introduce the
CBCS in DU was taken at the national level. It was decided by the University
Grants Commission (UGC). The courses are same, nomenclature is the same; only
the structure of the course has been tweaked. Students will have the flexibility
in choosing their course." Under the CBCS system, for instance, a student
pursuing Economics honours will have the option of picking papers from other
subjects like History honour or Sociology honours. Besides, if a student has
opted for a particular subject as a minor at the undergraduate level, he/she can
pursue a Masters degree in the subject too. "If someone has opted for
mathematics as a major subject and has Physics as a minor subject but wishes to
pursue a Masters in Physics, then the student would be able to do so under the
CBCS. The new system gives an option of 'mix and match'," added Prof Rai.
Besides the mixing of subjects, the CBCS will allow a student to migrate to any
other university without worrying about pending papers. The new system will
provide 12 Mail Today, New Delhi / Chandigarh, Thursday, NEWS SPECIAL REPORT
Mail Today, New Delhi, Thursday, JJuullyy 1166,, 22001155 them the flexibility
to give their back papers later and join the new university first. Explaining
the merit of the CBCS, Prof Kuriakose Mamkoottam, Dean, Students Service,
Ambedkar University Delhi, told Mail Today, "The system is based on the
principles of inter disciplinary studies and flexibility. Giving choices and
credits to the students are based on the liberal education of the West." Experts
also emphasise that CBCS will enable students to have more options and develop
better perspectives. But the detractors of the system are not willing to hang
their boots yet. Nandita Narain, president of Delhi University Teachers'
Association (DUTA) that has been continuously protesting against the system,
said, "By taking the consent from vicechancellors for implementation of CBCS
prior to approvals from statutory bodies, the HRD ministry has strengthened the
hands of V-Cs who have used universities as their fiefdoms. Teachers do not know
where to present matters of statutory violations which have taken place in
implementation of CBCS as the very institutions - the UGC and the MHRD -
responsible for maintaining quality seem to have given the go ahead for these
violatio

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2015 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              899 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                             May 24, 2012 Thursday

Annual open days for DU aspirants

LENGTH: 236 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, May 24 -- From May 26 to June 2, the office of the Dean of Student
Welfare of Delhi University will be organising Annual open days for students who
aspire to take admission in Delhi University. The principals of colleges and
subject experts will provide pre-admission counselling to students and help them
choosing the right course.

At North Campus the session will be organised at the Conference Centre on May
26, 27 and 31 and on June 1 and 2. At South Campus, it would be held at the SP
Jain Centre on May 28, 29 and 30. The session will be from 9.30 am to 1 pm.

These open days are an annual feature of the university organised before the
university starts the admission process. These days are open for counselling for
candidates and their wards. The head of departments, principals of various
colleges and even subject experts help students in choosing the right course and
taking the right career direction.

The office of the Dean of Student Welfare has also trained student counsellors.
These counsellors will give a 40 minute multimedia presentation to the
participants covering various queries pertaining to courses, reservation of
seats and the eligibility criteria. "This is organised for students. We want the
desiring candidates to attend the session in large numbers and pick up the right
course," said Dean of Student Welfare JM Khurana. Published by HT Syndication
with permission from Pioneer.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              900 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 10, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Nebraska Gets Roses, and Others See Red;
Colorado, Oregon Left Out in Latest Bowl Series Controversy

BYLINE: Josh Barr, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 891 words


First came the announcement that fourth-ranked Nebraska will play top-ranked
Miami in the Rose Bowl for the Bowl Championship Series title, then, for the
third time in its four-year existence, came the furor over college football's
method of determining a champion.

After a wild final three weeks of the season, when five of the top six teams in
the BCS ratings lost, Nebraska edged Colorado by five-hundredths of a point for
the No. 2 spot although the Buffaloes defeated the Cornhuskers by 26 points less
than three weeks ago.

"You're always going to have controversy when you don't have two teams that
stand out at the top," Nebraska Coach Frank Solich said.

The two teams that thought they were headed to the Rose Bowl on Jan. 3,
second-ranked Oregon and third-ranked Colorado, will play in the Fiesta Bowl on
Jan. 1. In the other BCS games, ACC champion Maryland will play Florida in the
Orange Bowl on Jan. 2 and Big Ten champion Illinois will play Louisiana State in
the Sugar Bowl on Jan. 1.

Tennessee would have gone to the Rose Bowl had it not lost to Louisiana State on
Saturday night in the Southeastern Conference championship game, 31-20. Instead,
the Volunteers will play Michigan in the Citrus Bowl.

Orange Bowl Chief Executive Officer Keith Tribble said that choosing Florida
over Tennessee, even though the Volunteers beat the Gators, 34-32 on Dec. 1, was
partly a business decision.

"It became apparent to us after looking at the final BCS poll and rankings that
choosing the University of Florida, with their big base of fans and also that
they were the highest-ranked team we could choose, goes with the history of what
we've done at the Orange Bowl," Tribble said.

With the BCS system, this year's title game is the Rose Bowl. Colorado believes
it should have been to that game, having trounced Nebraska, 62-36, en route to
winning the Big 12 Conference championship. While the Buffaloes (10-2) played
the third most-difficult schedule, their two losses were a major drawback.

As for Oregon, Ducks Coach Mike Bellotti thought he had a case after seeing his
team ranked second in the Associated Press media and ESPN/USA Today coaches
polls yesterday morning. At that point, Bellotti said, he thought his team was
Pasadena-bound.

Instead, Nebraska, which finished second to Colorado in the Big 12 North
Division and didn't even get to play in the conference's title game, will play
for the national championship.

"I don't know how you can be a national champion if you're not a conference
champion," Bellotti said, calling the BCS system a travesty and likening it to a
cancer.

"When you're second in both polls, the natural response or inclination is to
think you're in the national championship game."

Colorado Coach Gary Barnett did not try to disguise his feelings. "It's hard to
be gracious at this moment," he said after learning his team's fate.

Colorado defensive coordinator Vince Okruch explained the Buffaloes' outrage:
"Beating Nebraska the way we did and the computer spits out the numbers the way
it does. . . . Looking at what happened today, it probably should be Miami and
Oregon. Our problem is one of the participants not only did not win their
league, they didn't win their division in the league."

The BCS formula takes into account a team's record, its standing in the polls
and eight computer rankings, strength of schedule and wins over teams in the top
15 of the BCS ratings. The top two teams in the BCS ratings are invited to the
Jan. 3 Rose Bowl.

The margin between Nebraska and Colorado, 7.23 points to 7.28, was so slim that
changing the outcome of one game by the teams' opponents made the difference.
According to BCS analyst Jerry Palm, had Texas Christian lost to Southern
Mississippi instead of winning 14-12 on Friday night, Colorado would have gone
to Pasadena. TCU's victory gave Nebraska's strength of schedule a slight boost
(the Cornhuskers beat the Horned Frogs in their season opener), enough to make
the difference.

Bellotti said he hoped the BCS would make a rule change that would prohibit a
team from playing for the national title if it does not win its own conference.
After the controversial exclusions of Miami from the championship game last
season and Kansas State from a BCS bowl bid in 1998, officials tinkered with the
computer formula. But while ACC Commissioner John Swofford, who oversees the BCS
this season, said the system would be reviewed, he would not say if changes are
likely.

Most coaches are in favor of a playoff, but that seems unlikely. The major
conferences have a television contract for the BCS through 2006. Even then, it
seems doubtful those conferences would agree to share more of their lucrative
television money with other schools, which probably would have to happen in a
playoff.

"There's a lot of talk about a playoff," Swofford said. "But in reality, at the
collegiate level, there's not even an opportunity to have a playoff."

While Miami can claim the national championship by beating Nebraska, there could
be more chaos if the Cornhuskers pull the upset. The 60 voters in the coaches
poll, including Solich, Bellotti and Barnett, are obliged to make the Rose Bowl
winner their No. 1 vote. However, there stands a good chance that if Miami
loses, the Colorado-Oregon winner will finish No. 1 in the Associated Press
poll.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post

                              901 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 1, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Higher Deductible for a Lower Premium. But Is It Worth the Risk?

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words


As companies push workers to pay more for their medical care, millions of
employees are facing a tough decision, choosing between high premiums and high
deductibles.

The choice is this: Pay more every month for peace of mind later, or pay less
and run the risk of having higher out-of-pocket costs down the line.

And increasingly, people are doing the math and deciding that the risk is worth
it -- leaving them responsible for thousands of dollars in medical bills and
forcing them to make hard decisions about whether some care is worth it.

In the last five years, the share of employees enrolled in high-deductible plans
has more than doubled, to 29 percent, according to a new employer survey from
Mercer, a benefits consultant. Since the bulk of Americans receive their
coverage through an employer, that means about 50 million people are enrolled in
high-deductible plans.

There is no doubt that these plans can be a source of real financial hardship
and poor medical decisions. They can lead to several thousands of dollars of
out-of-pocket costs, and the higher burden on working families has been a theme
sounded by both Democrats and Republicans in this election season.

Yet even people with a steady flow of medical bills have decided that the
potential savings are worth the risk. On average, families saved almost $150 a
month in premiums, or $1,800 a year, if they chose the high-deductible option,
coupled with a health savings account offered by many large employers, according
to Mercer.

''Most employees are choosing to move into them of their own free will,'' said
Beth Umland, the research director for health and benefits at Mercer.

Beth Walker, who signed up for a family plan with a $6,000 yearly deductible
with her husband, Ordell, a football coach, says she is ''actually shocked at
how much I love our high-deductible plan.''

The Walkers were offered a choice of plans by Bluefield College, a small
Christian college in Virginia, where her husband works. The couple was attracted
by the new plan's lower premiums, about $350 a month. That is less than half of
the premium for a traditional plan, known as a P.P.O., or preferred provider
option.

The couple decided that they could sock away the $4,200 or so that they would
save to spend if out-of-pocket costs arrived. And even with two boys, regular
visits to specialists and prescriptions, the idea has worked.

''For this year, it's worked out very well,'' Ms. Walker said. But she knows if
one of her boys were to break an arm and end up in the emergency room, ''We're
going to pay for it.'' The Walkers invest the money tax-free in a health savings
account that allows them to accumulate funds year after year.

Still, the move to high-deductible plans has left many employees facing sticker
shock. With a large deductible, they may pay full price for a costly test or
medication, uncovering the real cost of health care.

Parents, for example, were in an uproar over the $600 price tag for the EpiPen,
the injector used to deliver lifesaving epinephrine to reverse severe allergic
reactions, because they were having to pay for it with their own money.

''If everybody was still in P.P.O.s, and low deductibles, nobody would have ever
heard of it,'' said Brian Marcotte, the chief executive of the National Business
Group on Health, which represents large employers.

Companies are often happy to let employees take the risk. They are viewed as a
way of warding off the so-called Cadillac tax, a controversial new charge under
the Affordable Care Act that would make employers pay an excise tax on the most
expensive health plans. The tax, which has been delayed until 2020, is
calculated on the cost of a plan's annual premiums and is aimed at discouraging
overly generous coverage that may lead to people getting too many tests and
procedures.

In addition, the lower monthly cost offered by high-deductible plans is one of
the most direct ways to mitigate the bite taken out of workers' paychecks for
insurance -- a pressing issue -- as premiums continue to outpace wages.

''The absolute dollar amounts coming out of their paychecks is very noticeable
right now,'' said Edward Kaplan, a senior vice president at the Segal Group, a
benefits consultant. He said companies were looking at a wide array of
cost-sharing techniques to bring down the share of premiums their employees pay.

The encouragement of these plans varies, however. Large employers are offering
high-deductible insurance in increasing numbers, according to Mercer, but the
overall share of employers offering them has remained relatively steady in
recent years.

As long as people are healthy, though, the high deductibles won't hurt. That is
why they are particularly popular among younger people, who are less likely to
incur high medical bills and like the lower monthly premiums. Benefitfocus, a
benefits technology firm, estimates that about 44 percent of millennials working
for large employers, who have a choice, are enrolling in these plans, compared
with 36 percent of baby boomers.

The risk is that people with high-deductible plans avoid care because they do
not have the out-of-pocket money to cover it.

A recent analysis showed that low-income workers were more likely than higher
earners to avoid certain kinds of care when they were enrolled in
high-deductible plans coupled with savings accounts. The analysis from the
Employee Benefit Research Institute, a nonprofit organization, found that
low-income people even skipped free preventive services like flu shots and cut
back on doctors' visits.

And there is widespread evidence that people have trouble understanding the
subtleties of any plan. Many people liken the process of open enrollment and
picking a plan to the pleasures of a root canal, said Shan Fowler, an executive
at Benefitfocus. ''The understanding of a P.P.O. versus high deductible is not
good at all.''

As a result, some policy experts worry that these plans benefit some people more
than others. People with chronic health conditions who may be older or simply do
not have the resources to pay for their care may end up paying too much for a
plan with a lower deductible, even when the high-deductible plan makes more
sense.

''They're much more likely to choose the most expensive plans with seemingly
higher coverage,'' said Saurabh Bhargava, an economist at Carnegie Mellon
University, whose research has demonstrated that individuals may not make the
right choices.

He worries that the high-deductible plans, which allow some employees to
accumulate large sums tax-free, can also widen the gap between the better-off
and everyone else.

''It can lead to pretty large transfers to the sophisticated from the less
sophisticated,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/01/business/is-high-deductible-health-insurance-w
orth-the-risk.html

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Beth Walker signed up for a high-deductible health plan with her
husband, Ordell, a coach at Bluefield College in Virginia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACOB
BIBA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company

                              902 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     March 23, 2016 Wednesday 10:31 AM GMT

Jessica Biel: 'Diamond jewellery is fun but intense'

SECTION: FASHION AND BEAUTY

LENGTH: 307 words


Jessica Biel has spent years mastering the art of choosing expensive jewellery
to complement her red carpet ensembles.

Actress Jessica Biel takes the process of choosing the right diamonds to
accompany a red carpet gown very seriously.

The 34-year-old regularly tops best dressed lists when she attends awards
ceremonies or movie premieres, and her exquisite taste goes beyond her clothing
- she's also saluted for the jewellery choices she makes with each outfit.

While many would think choosing from some of the world's most beautiful diamond
accessories would be easy, Jessica insists it isn't a decision which can be made
hastily.

"It's fun, but it is intense because it's not to be taken lightly," she explains
in new documentary Crazy About Tiffany's, adding, "presenting yourself in a
particular way" is her job.

It's taken Jessica years to understand how to choose a diamond accessory for the
red carpet, and she admitted in the footage that before she started to work with
brands like Tiffany's, she made some real fashion faux pas.

Her stylist Estee Stanley revealed she wore flared jeans and chunky platforms to
one event before they started working together. Jessica laughed, "I was 19, you
know. No more high-heeled flip-flops and tan lines and crop tops (now). I didn't
know any better!"

Jessica, who is married to another style star Justin Timberlake, previously
revealed to People magazine she bought her first piece of fancy jewellery when
she was at college, and it marked the beginning of her transformation into the
stylish celebrity she is today.

"I didn't really have anything of value for a long time," she said. "I bought
myself my first pair of diamond earrings when I was a freshman in college. That
was a big deal. Before that, I grew up wearing lots of friendship bracelets.
That was my favourite accessory!"

© Cover Media

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2016 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              903 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Diamond Valley Leader (Australia)

                            August 4, 2010 Wednesday
                                 1 - DV Edition

Time to keep options open MY ADVICE

BYLINE: Margie Jordan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 302  words


MY ADVICE

IN MOST schools, term 3 is when year 10 students are asked to submit their
subject choices for year 11.

This is why essential reading for all year 10 students includes The 2013
Victorian Tertiary Entry Guide: Implications For Your Future, How To Maximise
Your Options After Year 12. It's available from all schools' careers centres.

Many students think they'll probably see a careers adviser in year 12, but now
is the time.

Many post-year 12 options are determined by VCE subjects.

At Eltham College of Education, our students work out their VCE subject choices
with one of the specialist careers advisers, but whatever your school, careers
advice will involve working with the guide and a four-step process:

Working out what you want to do after year 12. Aim to keep as many options open
as possible not knowing what you want to do is quite normal, so don't worry if
you feel that way.

Looking carefully at the guide to see if any prerequisite subjects are required
for the courses you are considering.

Choosing your likely year 12 subjects to cover any prerequisites allowing for
options.

Choosing your year 11 subjects according to what you want to go on with in year
12. Of course, subjects are also selected based on interest and ability.

At many schools, students may begin a school-based apprenticeship or traineeship
as part of their year 11 studies. The guide also informs about future pathways
for apprenticeships and VCAL.

Increasingly, Victorian year 10 students are already studying a VCE subject, and
therefore they may decide to include a year 12-level VCE subject in their year
11 VCE program.

Don't be daunted by all the choices. The guide, together with your school's
advisory staff, will have you sorted in no time.

Margie Jordan is a senior school learning adviser at Eltham College of
Education.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: DVV


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              904 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 20, 2015 Tuesday

South Carolina: What to Look for in a Chiropractic College

LENGTH: 749 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Columbia: Sherman College of Chiropractic, The State of South Carolina has
issued the following news release:



 Choosing the right college for your chiropractic education is an important
decision. After all, it's where you'll accumulate valuable professional
contacts, gain important practical experience, and receive the chiropractic
education that will help establish the foundations of your future career.





 You want to make sure that your college requires rigorous coursework, but also
nurtures you along the way. You'll want to make sure you get an individualized
attention from your professors as well as practical clinical experience along
with your coursework.



 And, as a budding doctor of chiropractic, you also want to choose a
chiropractic college that shares your philosophy of chiropractic.



 How do all of these elements come together to provide you with an excellent
chiropractic education? Read on to find out.

 Caring and Experienced Instructors Make a Difference in Your Chiropractic
Education

 Students at Sherman feel like they are part of a family thanks to our caring
approach to chiropractic education.



 Students at Sherman feel like they are part of a family thanks to our caring
approach to chiropractic education.



 Personal attention is an important factor in choosing your chiropractic
college. Why? Because this means you will get to know your instructors well,
receiving individualized guidance and support throughout your chiropractic
education.



 You also want to make sure that your future chiropractic college has a warm and
friendly environment, so that you don't just feel like a number. You want your
college to offer you a rigorous education from experienced instructors, but you
also want to feel included and welcome into their community and nurtured
throughout your education.

 Practical Experience with State-of-the-Art Chiropractic Equipment

 Chiropractic student Sherman College



 Students at Sherman use our cutting-edge digital x-ray lab as they complete
their internships at our in-house clinic.



 As you search for your future chiropractic college, you want to make sure that
you receive a balanced education that combines theoretical knowledge with
practical, hands-on experience.



 Students at chiropractic colleges like Sherman, for example, complete demanding
courses in subjects as diverse as chemistry, anatomy, physiology, radiology,
chiropractic technique, business, and philosophy so that they create a solid
theoretical framework on which to build their careers.



 But their education doesn't just end there! As students complete their
chiropractic degree, they also spend valuable time caring for patients right in
Sherman's on-site clinic. Through this approach, students put their technique
skills to work and become familiar with state-of-the-art chiropractic equipment
so they can feel comfortable in the hands-on, patient-centered field of
chiropractic.

 The Philosophy of Chiropractic: An Important Component of Any Chiropractic
Education



 If you're interested in preventative, holistic, and non-invasive approaches to
healthcare, then you want to make sure that the chiropractic college you attend
is centered on the philosophy, art and science of vertebral subluxation.



 The philosophy of chiropractic encourages healthy living and preventative care
rather than just treating symptoms when they arise. Through this approach to
healthcare and chiropractic education, you'll learn about the body's innate
intelligence, and how the body constantly strives to heal itself and enjoy a
greater potential for health and optimal human performance.



 Beginning your chiropractic education with that philosophy in mind will help
you focus your future career on providing quality health care.

 A Passion for Chiropractic that Goes Beyond the Classroom



 A passion for chiropractic extends beyond the clinic or classroom - and at
chiropractic colleges like Sherman, chiropractic is a way of life! Students can
join clubs that explore different chiropractic techniques, visit our campus
museum to learn more about the history of chiropractic, and even connect with
experts from across the country and around the world through our free weekly
chiropractic conference calls.



 Instructors at Sherman share our passion for chiropractic; they are
continuously striving to advance the field of chiropractic in our active
research department.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              905 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                        July 21, 2000, Friday Edition 1

Students are choosing to live at home

SECTION: EDUCATION JOURNAL, Pg. 20

LENGTH: 163 words


   THE increasing cost of going to university may account for a rise in the
number of people choosing to stay at home to do a degree, figures out yesterday
showed.

Applications for higher education courses indicate that one in six will live at
home if they get a place this year, admissions service UCAS says.

Figures also show the Government's drive to recruit more nurses may be paying
off, as there was a 14.4pc surge in applications to do nursing at university.

Applications for maths and computing-related subjects also rose sharply.

Overall, around 71,000 people have applied to do degrees at colleges and
universities near home, a 2.3pc rise on last year's total.

UCAS chief executive Tony Higgins said: "There are greater financial pressures
for students, which means some will cut their costs by staying at home while
studying."

More people were also taking a year out to travel or earn money to pay for the
cost of student living, he added.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              906 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                           September 17, 2012 Monday

Out with it!

LENGTH: 509  words


Students of R D National College are pursuing a cause - 'Mumbais Most Unwanted',
to clean up the city of litter. Knowledge finds out more

When seven final year BMM ( Bachelor of Mass Media) students of RD National
College were given the option of choosing their social cause ad campaign
assignment for a class, they thought choosing the easiest topic - littering -
would be comfortable since they had assignments for other subjects as well.

Little did they know that this media management project of theirs would extend
way beyond themselves, the class or even the BMM department. That it would
extend to the entire college and beyond the deadline of submission, and would be
something that went beyond even the temptation of scoring high marks.

So, Aman Sheth, Disha Salian, Himanshu Shikhare, Malavika Pillai, Moin Shaikh,
Nikita Rathod and Saachi Ramchandani set out to do the assignment given to them
by faculty member Hanif Lakdawala.

They designed 'Mumbais Most Unwanted'their ant- littering campaign, they
literally meant it.

"Litter is Mumbais most unwanted, and that is what we have depicted in our
promotional videos as well," says Khan. The video was one of the three
deliverables for the online campaign, along with three BTL ( below the line)
activities. The promoted their facebook page even if it meant just short of
begging to people to like their page.

The content about the ill effects of littering became more interesting by the
day, even the above mentioned video. " Even though the idea and execution were a
bit exaggerated, we used witty humour to convey the message that of we, as a
public, do not do something about litter, we will come down to living in
garbage.

Apart from that they involved citizens ( over 600) as well, making them vow on
camera that they will not litter. These included actor/ singer Rajeshwari who
opened it to the public and dancer Marzi Pestonji who ended it " Mumbai is
giving its oath. Are you?" Next, the team interacted with citizens at malls
wearing costumes made entirely out of junk, spreading the cause. It did not end
there.

Their star attraction was the Big Bin, which were fancy, arty, colourful
dustbins they designed with refrigerator cartons, and placed them at strategic
locations. The irony was, that every time someone would try to use it, a human
hand ( hidden team member in the carton) would appear out of nowhere as if to
collect the garbage. Their last connect activity was to get teacher Mridula
Pillai to give her first- year architecture students of LS Raheja College as
assignment to design and make something purely out of waste material, they could
even use paint.

With the full support of their principal Dr Dinesh Panwani, the group has taken
the initiative forward to a larger scale, on the lines of a cleanup drive
involving over 300 students.

Even with it being a roller coaster ride for these students, they have managed
to stay gung ho about all the activities despite other assignments and
submissions knocking on their doors. It is like their work has found its
rightful meaning.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2012 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              907 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                             June 16, 2009 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

IN THE COMMUNITY OUR HELPERS;
WE are now in the final countdown to the Examiner Community Awards at the
Galpharm Stadium next Monday evening. Today we focus on the Services To The
Community section. Here are the final three from the shortlist. The winner - as
in all categories - will be announced on the night. Anyone wanting more
information about the awards - such as looking back at the nominees we have
revealed so far or how to buy tickets - can get it from our website,
www.examiner.co.uk

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 795 words


A 'young people's hero'

YOUTH minister Richard Carter must be rushed off his feet running six different
youth clubs - but he thinks every minute is well-worthwhile.

The 32-year-old works with more than 100 young people in his local area of
Oakes.

Wife Kim nominated her husband for the services to the community award.

The couple live opposite Oakes Baptist Church where Richard runs the youth clubs
for five to 24-year-olds.

Kim said: "Richard is passionate to see young people choosing to get involved in
sports, games and other activities rather than choosing drink or drugs or
criminal activities.

"Even when Richard is faced with challenging and antisocial behaviour, he gives
chance after chance for people to try again.

"Some young people appreciate the time and effort Richard puts into this work,
others don't.

"But Richard values each young person he has contact with and perseveres through
thick and thin to provide a safe place for them just to be kids.

"Richard is the young people's hero of Oakes."

VolunteerJoan is known for dedicated work

GRANDMOTHER Joan Morton is well-known in several community circles.

Only last year the 67-year-old received an MBE in the New Year's Honours for
years of dedicated work to the community in Huddersfield.

The Milnsbridge grandmother-of-two was a founder member of the Beavers group at
St Mark's Church in Longwood.

"It was about 23 years ago,'' she said. "I was just a parent helper at the time
and we started out with just six children - and now we have the full 24." Joan
also works with Victim Support in Calderdale, helping victims of crime come to
terms with what has happened to them.

"I wanted to do something a little bit different that wasn't directly related to
children,'' she said.

"I heard about volunteering for Victim Support and I've been there five years
now.

"I work with another woman, Judith Boddis, who has become a very good friend."
Joan is also Sunday school teacher at St Mark's Church and has worked
voluntarily for the Church of England's Wakefield Diocese.

She was also a founding member of Golcar Lily Day village celebrations a few
years ago. The event has gone from strength to strength..

About the sponsor

ON August 1 last year Huddersfield Technical College merged with Dewsbury
College to become Kirklees College.

The merged college will share strengths in curriculum development and teaching
to build a college that effectively addresses national and local priorities as
well as providing stability and confidence to support first-class education
across the region.

Kirklees College provides a wide range of further and higher education
opportunities for young people and adults as well as tailor-made training for
employers.

The college should be able to find a course to suit people of all ages,
commitments or experience.

Further education offers better employment, promotion and financial prospects, a
new skill or interest, plus increased self-confidence, a new group of friends
and a chance to enjoy yourself.

The college offers full-time, part-time and adult education courses.

Subjects are provided in animal care and countryside, art and design, media,
music and performing arts, business, IT, administration, hair and beauty,
childcare, health and social care, public service, engineering, motor vehicles,
construction, travel and tourism, sport, catering and science.

Visit the website w w w. k i r k l e e s c o l l e g e .

ac.uk which is full of information about the courses offered during the day and
in the evenings, plus the support and facilities available..

Once a Scout - always a Scout

REMARKABLE Laurie Minney is nominated for his service to local scouting.

The 78-year-old from Meltham has been involved in the Scout movement ever since
the beginning of the Second World War.

He became a Scout leader in 1949 and joined the 5th Holme Valley Meltham Group
as a leader in 1953.

He was awarded scouting's highest award, The Silver Wolf, in recognition for his
long and outstanding service.

The loyal Huddersfield Town supporter is looking forward to the awards ceremony
at the Galpharm Stadium.

He said there has been increasing interest in scouting in the past few years,
but there is always a need for more Scout leaders in the area.

"There are more and more girls signing up because they feel they can do outdoor
activities like canoeing,'' he said.

"These days there's even badges for computers which obviously there wasn't in my
day." Friend Leslie Chadwick nominated Laurie for the award.

He said: "Laurie is a fantastic, remarkable person in that he has no transport
of his own and travels everywhere on foot or by public transport.

"I cannot think of anyone, past or present, who deserves this award more than
Laurie."

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  DEDICATED: Joan Morton REMARKABLE: Laurie Minney, of Meltham
(AC070509Dcomm-01) HERO OF OAKES: Richard Carter at Oakes Baptist Church
(JH050509Brichard-04)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              908 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                            January 20, 2002, Sunday

ICT's LAN accredited courses

BYLINE: By Habsah Marjuni

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 485 words


MALAYSIAN students nowadays are spoilt for choice when it comes to
choosing the right path to tertiary education.

Especially those who do well in their SPM, the choice is overwhelmingly
large.

The number of public universities have literally doubled from what it
was 20 years ago while private colleges are no more the bastions of the
"not so smart."

But in the eagerness to choose the best institution of higher learning,
whether private or public, caution must be exercised.

When considering a private college, for example, it is imperative to
find out whether a particular programme is accredited by the National
Accreditation Board (LAN).

"In fact, the first question that parents and students alike ask
nowadays is whether the programme that they're interested in is accredited
by LAN," said Ikram College of Technology's marketing manager Rosliza
Abdul Rahman.

That shows the public is now more aware of such requirements among
private colleges, she says.

Realising this, ICT has strived to ensure that all of its programmes are
accredited and this has been listed among the college's ISO 9000
objectives.

According to Rosliza, six of the college's 10 programmes were already
accredited while the rest have been evaluated by LAN.

The six are: Diploma in Business Administration, Diploma in Information
Technology, Certificate in IT, Certificate in Business Administration,
Certificate in Automotive Engineering and Certificate in Electrical
Engineering.

As for the other four, Rosliza said the college is quite positive that
they are going to be accredited by end of this year because "we've met all
the LAN requirements."

ICT is now opening its doors for the next intake where new students are
expected to register on Feb 25. They can use their Sijil Pelajaran
Malaysian trial examination results to apply for a place in ICT as the
actual results have not been released.

Rosliza said the students would however be given an offer on a
conditional basis.

"If they're accepted into the diploma programmes based on their forecast
results, adjustments will have to be made if the actual results are worse
than expected. They won't be expelled but instead asked to do either pre-
diploma or certificate courses before continuing to the diploma level."

To qualify for enrolment in ICT's diploma programmes, applicants should
have obtained at least five credits and one pass in SPM while eligibility
for certificate programmes is two credits and four passes.

A host of financial facilities are available for those enrolling at ICT.

Besides taking up a loan from Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi
Nasional, they can also apply to financial institutions and foundations.

For further information, contact ICT at 03-87373320, fax: 03-87341021,
email: kolejikram@kisbedu.com.my or surf the internet to go to
www.kisb.com.my.
hmarjuni@nstp.com.my


LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Quality living ... Ample accommodation facilities a must in choosing a
private college.

            Copyright 2002 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad

                              909 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)

                            January 18, 2016 Monday
                               Bangalore Edition

GLOBAL CITIZEN STUDENTS' AMERICAN DREAM TURNING INTO A NIGHTMARE

BYLINE: Ishani Duttagupta

SECTION: WORLD VIEW

LENGTH: 643 words


The recent cases of US immigration authorities deporting some Indian students
and stopping others from boarding flights to America, despite them having valid
student visas, are causing a lot of concern among students who plan to go there
for higher education.

While the US embassy in India has said that they are closely monitoring the
situation, the Indian government has expressed concerns over some Indian
students bound for two California colleges being denied entry into the US by
Customs and Border Protection. "We are advising Indian students who plan to
study in the United States to avail themselves of the free services provided by
Education USA through the website and the centres around India. We are working
with Education USA to guide Indian students and help them in choosing the most
appropriate colleges and universities for their courses," US ambassador Richard
Verma said at a recent event in Delhi to launch Passport to India, a programme
sponsored by the US department of state.

The US embassy has stated that even students with a valid US visa can be denied
entry if the immigration officer finds reason to question the legitimacy of
their travel documents or finds that the traveller cannot adequately answer
questions about the purpose of his or her travel to the US.

However, experts feel that those seeking admission to genuine US institutions
have no reason for worry . "The US authorities have been taking steps against a
few dodgy universities and colleges, which have been carrying out illegal
activities. These are not institutions which are reputable. So students who are
looking forward to studying in good colleges offering quality higher education
have no reason for concern," said Rohan Ganeriwala, co-founder, Collegify , a
consulting firm for education overseas.

"There are many Indian students who end up going to very small colleges and
lesser-known institutions. Sometimes the fees of these colleges are also low.
Some students studying in such institutions are concerned. Many Indian students
who may have got poor grades do get admission to attend

such colleges and they're the ones who could be in trouble and have reason to be
worried," said Ganeriwala.

According to him, Indian parents and students should do extensive research on
the universities they are applying to. "In fact, they should check the student
count, particularly the number of international students, studying in that
university . The location also plays a major role when they shortlist colleges.
The most important thing is to keep the ranking and reputation of the college in
mind before taking admission. Students who do their applications based on these
above factors are not likely to face any problem," he said.

Last year there was a huge rise in the number of Indian students

studying in America \xAD nearly 30% from the previous year, to more than
1,30,000.

Harjiv Singh, founder and publisher of BrainGain magazine, which specialises in
overseas education, said that the problem is largely about less reputed and
dodgy institutions trying to hardsell their courses to Indian students through
unscrupulous agents. "The US has a large number of colleges and many smaller
ones also offer quality education. In their search for suitable institutions,
Indian students and their parents should be careful about not getting duped,"
Singh said. He added that the Indian government should also take steps against
unscrupulous agents who were taking students seeking education overseas for a
ride.

"Every 12 to 18 months scams come to light through which Indian students going
to study abroad are being duped. While students have to do their due diligence
before choosing colleges, considering that their families are making huge
investments in overseas education, the government can also help by cracking down
on dodgy and unscrupulous agents," Singh said.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              910 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)

                            January 18, 2016 Monday
                                 Mumbai Edition

GLOBAL CITIZEN STUDENTS' AMERICAN DREAM TURNING INTO A NIGHTMARE

BYLINE: Ishani Duttagupta

SECTION: WORLD VIEW

LENGTH: 643 words


The recent cases of US immigration authorities deporting some Indian students
and stopping others from boarding flights to America, despite them having valid
student visas, are causing a lot of concern among students who plan to go there
for higher education.

While the US embassy in India has said that they are closely monitoring the
situation, the Indian government has expressed concerns over some Indian
students bound for two California colleges being denied entry into the US by
Customs and Border Protection. "We are advising Indian students who plan to
study in the United States to avail themselves of the free services provided by
Education USA through the website and the centres around India. We are working
with Education USA to guide Indian students and help them in choosing the most
appropriate colleges and universities for their courses," US ambassador Richard
Verma said at a recent event in Delhi to launch Passport to India, a programme
sponsored by the US department of state.

The US embassy has stated that even students with a valid US visa can be denied
entry if the immigration officer finds reason to question the legitimacy of
their travel documents or finds that the traveller cannot adequately answer
questions about the purpose of his or her travel to the US.

However, experts feel that those seeking admission to genuine US institutions
have no reason for worry . "The US authorities have been taking steps against a
few dodgy universities and colleges, which have been carrying out illegal
activities. These are not institutions which are reputable. So students who are
looking forward to studying in good colleges offering quality higher education
have no reason for concern," said Rohan Ganeriwala, co-founder, Collegify , a
consulting firm for education overseas.

"There are many Indian students who end up going to very small colleges and
lesser-known institutions. Sometimes the fees of these colleges are also low.
Some students studying in such institutions are concerned. Many Indian students
who may have got poor grades do get admission to attend

such colleges and they're the ones who could be in trouble and have reason to be
worried," said Ganeriwala.

According to him, Indian parents and students should do extensive research on
the universities they are applying to. "In fact, they should check the student
count, particularly the number of international students, studying in that
university . The location also plays a major role when they shortlist colleges.
The most important thing is to keep the ranking and reputation of the college in
mind before taking admission. Students who do their applications based on these
above factors are not likely to face any problem," he said.

Last year there was a huge rise in the number of Indian students

studying in America \xAD nearly 30% from the previous year, to more than
1,30,000.

Harjiv Singh, founder and publisher of BrainGain magazine, which specialises in
overseas education, said that the problem is largely about less reputed and
dodgy institutions trying to hardsell their courses to Indian students through
unscrupulous agents. "The US has a large number of colleges and many smaller
ones also offer quality education. In their search for suitable institutions,
Indian students and their parents should be careful about not getting duped,"
Singh said. He added that the Indian government should also take steps against
unscrupulous agents who were taking students seeking education overseas for a
ride.

"Every 12 to 18 months scams come to light through which Indian students going
to study abroad are being duped. While students have to do their due diligence
before choosing colleges, considering that their families are making huge
investments in overseas education, the government can also help by cracking down
on dodgy and unscrupulous agents," Singh said.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              911 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)

                            January 18, 2016 Monday
                                 Delhi Edition

GLOBAL CITIZEN STUDENTS' AMERICAN DREAM TURNING INTO A NIGHTMARE

BYLINE: Ishani Duttagupta

SECTION: WORLD VIEW

LENGTH: 643 words


The recent cases of US immigration authorities deporting some Indian students
and stopping others from boarding flights to America, despite them having valid
student visas, are causing a lot of concern among students who plan to go there
for higher education.

While the US embassy in India has said that they are closely monitoring the
situation, the Indian government has expressed concerns over some Indian
students bound for two California colleges being denied entry into the US by
Customs and Border Protection. "We are advising Indian students who plan to
study in the United States to avail themselves of the free services provided by
Education USA through the website and the centres around India. We are working
with Education USA to guide Indian students and help them in choosing the most
appropriate colleges and universities for their courses," US ambassador Richard
Verma said at a recent event in Delhi to launch Passport to India, a programme
sponsored by the US department of state.

The US embassy has stated that even students with a valid US visa can be denied
entry if the immigration officer finds reason to question the legitimacy of
their travel documents or finds that the traveller cannot adequately answer
questions about the purpose of his or her travel to the US.

However, experts feel that those seeking admission to genuine US institutions
have no reason for worry . "The US authorities have been taking steps against a
few dodgy universities and colleges, which have been carrying out illegal
activities. These are not institutions which are reputable. So students who are
looking forward to studying in good colleges offering quality higher education
have no reason for concern," said Rohan Ganeriwala, co-founder, Collegify , a
consulting firm for education overseas.

"There are many Indian students who end up going to very small colleges and
lesser-known institutions. Sometimes the fees of these colleges are also low.
Some students studying in such institutions are concerned. Many Indian students
who may have got poor grades do get admission to attend

such colleges and they're the ones who could be in trouble and have reason to be
worried," said Ganeriwala.

According to him, Indian parents and students should do extensive research on
the universities they are applying to. "In fact, they should check the student
count, particularly the number of international students, studying in that
university . The location also plays a major role when they shortlist colleges.
The most important thing is to keep the ranking and reputation of the college in
mind before taking admission. Students who do their applications based on these
above factors are not likely to face any problem," he said.

Last year there was a huge rise in the number of Indian students

studying in America \xAD nearly 30% from the previous year, to more than
1,30,000.

Harjiv Singh, founder and publisher of BrainGain magazine, which specialises in
overseas education, said that the problem is largely about less reputed and
dodgy institutions trying to hardsell their courses to Indian students through
unscrupulous agents. "The US has a large number of colleges and many smaller
ones also offer quality education. In their search for suitable institutions,
Indian students and their parents should be careful about not getting duped,"
Singh said. He added that the Indian government should also take steps against
unscrupulous agents who were taking students seeking education overseas for a
ride.

"Every 12 to 18 months scams come to light through which Indian students going
to study abroad are being duped. While students have to do their due diligence
before choosing colleges, considering that their families are making huge
investments in overseas education, the government can also help by cracking down
on dodgy and unscrupulous agents," Singh said.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              912 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)

                            January 18, 2016 Monday
                                Kolkata Edition

GLOBAL CITIZEN STUDENTS' AMERICAN DREAM TURNING INTO A NIGHTMARE

BYLINE: Ishani Duttagupta

SECTION: WORLD VIEW

LENGTH: 643 words


The recent cases of US immigration authorities deporting some Indian students
and stopping others from boarding flights to America, despite them having valid
student visas, are causing a lot of concern among students who plan to go there
for higher education.

While the US embassy in India has said that they are closely monitoring the
situation, the Indian government has expressed concerns over some Indian
students bound for two California colleges being denied entry into the US by
Customs and Border Protection. "We are advising Indian students who plan to
study in the United States to avail themselves of the free services provided by
Education USA through the website and the centres around India. We are working
with Education USA to guide Indian students and help them in choosing the most
appropriate colleges and universities for their courses," US ambassador Richard
Verma said at a recent event in Delhi to launch Passport to India, a programme
sponsored by the US department of state.

The US embassy has stated that even students with a valid US visa can be denied
entry if the immigration officer finds reason to question the legitimacy of
their travel documents or finds that the traveller cannot adequately answer
questions about the purpose of his or her travel to the US.

However, experts feel that those seeking admission to genuine US institutions
have no reason for worry . "The US authorities have been taking steps against a
few dodgy universities and colleges, which have been carrying out illegal
activities. These are not institutions which are reputable. So students who are
looking forward to studying in good colleges offering quality higher education
have no reason for concern," said Rohan Ganeriwala, co-founder, Collegify , a
consulting firm for education overseas.

"There are many Indian students who end up going to very small colleges and
lesser-known institutions. Sometimes the fees of these colleges are also low.
Some students studying in such institutions are concerned. Many Indian students
who may have got poor grades do get admission to attend

such colleges and they're the ones who could be in trouble and have reason to be
worried," said Ganeriwala.

According to him, Indian parents and students should do extensive research on
the universities they are applying to. "In fact, they should check the student
count, particularly the number of international students, studying in that
university . The location also plays a major role when they shortlist colleges.
The most important thing is to keep the ranking and reputation of the college in
mind before taking admission. Students who do their applications based on these
above factors are not likely to face any problem," he said.

Last year there was a huge rise in the number of Indian students

studying in America \xAD nearly 30% from the previous year, to more than
1,30,000.

Harjiv Singh, founder and publisher of BrainGain magazine, which specialises in
overseas education, said that the problem is largely about less reputed and
dodgy institutions trying to hardsell their courses to Indian students through
unscrupulous agents. "The US has a large number of colleges and many smaller
ones also offer quality education. In their search for suitable institutions,
Indian students and their parents should be careful about not getting duped,"
Singh said. He added that the Indian government should also take steps against
unscrupulous agents who were taking students seeking education overseas for a
ride.

"Every 12 to 18 months scams come to light through which Indian students going
to study abroad are being duped. While students have to do their due diligence
before choosing colleges, considering that their families are making huge
investments in overseas education, the government can also help by cracking down
on dodgy and unscrupulous agents," Singh said.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              913 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             March 29, 2004 Monday
                                  Late Edition

Spoilt for choice;
COVER STORY

BYLINE: Alice Russell

SECTION: EDUCATION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2099 words


Deciding on the best secondary school for your child demands careful

consideration. Alice Russell reports.

It used to be so simple. In the 1960s and 1970s, when most people who now have

school-age children were at school themselves, the set-up was straightforward:

about eight out of 10 students went to the local government secondary,

Catholics went to Catholic schools, and the few left over went to private

schools.

Many of the changes since then have been controversial but one thing is

indisputable: we now have a much wider range of schooling options.

There are Montessori and Steiner schools, Jewish, Muslim and Christian schools,

schools with a particular focus such as music, performing arts, sport,

technology. There are schools offering accelerated learning programs, there are

selective schools, single-sex schools and co-ed schools. There are schools

with swimming pools and gyms and drama theatres, and schools with none of these

but with a good record for getting students into university.

What matters most? What's worth paying for? When the price of a secondary

school education can hover somewhere between that of a car and a mortgage,

there's little wonder that choosing schools can be a big issue for some

parents. But not for all; geographical location, philosophical conviction or

religious belief may limit options for some, and others simplify things by

following tradition, with children automatically going to the schools their

parents attended.

Financial considerations are also an influence, though not necessarily in the

most expected way. Peter Cuttance, who directs Melbourne University's Centre

for Applied Educational Research, says people who spend a lot of money on

schooling don't always probe deeply into the pros and cons of the school

environment.

"I think it's a bit like buying a Mercedes. You say, well, we know Mercedes are

a good car. Whether the seats really are as comfortable as another alternative

or not ¤ you're probably not going to test it that far."

The parents who do look further - the ones Professor Cuttance terms "active

choosers" - tend to be concerned about a range of factors that were quantified

in a recent Federal Government report, Parents' and Community Members'

Attitudes to Schooling. It shows that the elements playing the biggest part in

the choice are quality of teachers (important to 79.3 per cent of parents),

secure environment (70.7 per cent), the academic reputation of the school (52.1

per cent), school facilities (44.9 per cent), school location (36.3 per cent),

social factors (28.1 per cent), the cost of schooling (25.8 per cent) and the

availability of extracurricular activities (19.8 per cent).

The degree of importance placed on these factors varies only slightly between

parents of children at government and non-government schools. Those at

non-government schools are a little more concerned about the quality of

teaching, and those at government schools a little more concerned about

everything else.

As parents try to evaluate the benefits of different educational styles and

offerings, they sometimes turn for advice to such people as Melbourne

psychologist and educational consultant David Cohen. Although the process of

choosing a secondary school tends to intensify when the child is in year 5, it

is often something that has been in parents' minds for years.

"Some parents who come to me from the wealthier group have put their children

down for four or five schools from birth, and paid deposits of minimally $100

per school to ensure there will be a place," Dr Cohen says.

He recommends a more concentrated effort than this "shotgun approach".

"I think the more time that parents spend with their children in making sure

that the values and the emphases in the curriculum accord with those of their

child, the happier the child will be and the better the child will perform."

Finding the best mix of academic, cultural, sporting and social programs for a

particular child (and the same school can produce halcyon memories for one

student and nightmares in later life for another) is difficult. Readily

available information, if not exactly incorrect, can be misleading. Brochures

show impressive sporting results and equipment; school open days reveal

high-class facilities, beautiful buildings and fine furnishings; official

reports list high VCE results. All are enticing but all must be considered

critically.

That leading sporting reputation may lose some of its appeal if it means that

only those good enough to make it into the first-level teams will get any

consideration. Furniture and carpet quality are not generally related to the

quality of learning, and seductive facilities may likewise mean less than you

think. They are often found in larger schools - but a smaller school may suit

the child better.

"Smaller schools have been shown to be schools where there is much better

bonding between principals, staff, students and parents, and certainly smaller

classes are much more ideal," says Dr Cohen. "If you know that your child is

going to be in a class of 30 or so to pay for these elaborate facilities, it's

really counterproductive."

So is choosing a school that will mean the child has to spend a couple of hours

a day commuting. It's not just a matter of exhaustion and fitting in study.

"Kids need time to be kids," he says.

Results shouldn't be seen as the be-all and end-all, and it's worth remembering

that information about the top 10 per cent has minimal relevance to the other

90 per cent.

"Some parents are so caught up in this nonsense of the VCE score that they

don't consider much else," Dr Cohen says. "They often misfire because they send

a child to a school where there are high levels of competition and then the

child doesn't enjoy school. And from a child's point of view, enjoyment is

factor number one."

How can parents pin down the school most likely to ensure that enjoyment?

"The most important thing parents can do is visit the school," says Anne

Coughlin, deputy president of the Victorian Association of State Secondary

Principals. She recommends writing a list of questions beforehand: "They

shouldn't be afraid to ask the school about any piece of information they

want."

For some, that might mean finding out about policies and attitudes on bullying

and drugs; for others, it's simpler stuff about which sports and languages are

available. In some cases, Ms Coughlin says, information can be useless if it's

not given sufficient context. A parent might, for example, ask about ENTER

scores but would need more information about such things as counselling

processes, student options and the type of students at the school if that

knowledge is to help their decision-making process.

"A lot of kids haven't got an ambition to get a 90 score; they get a 70 and get

into the course they want to get into and they're as happy as can be," says Ms

Coughlin.

Other important factors to ask about, says Dr Cohen, are the amount of parental

participation in school decision-making and the level of reporting to parents.

"Some schools have a culture almost of silence and only provide a written

report twice a year," he says. "Sometimes that report is so full of jargon that

the parent doesn't really understand it fully and the school isn't very happy

about having to provide an interview as well."

Reliable, objective information about schools is not always readily available.

In his research, Professor Cuttance has found that in choosing schools, many

parents depend on word-of-mouth, personal experience and family networks, but

often only because there isn't anything else.

"One of the serious issues I think we've got to face up to is that we do need

to have more information about schools," he says. "We tend to make relatively

irrelevant information available to parents, and where opportunities are made

available, they tend to be very heavily constrained."

Information about VCE results is not usually given to parents in a way they can

use effectively, Professor Cuttance says, whether they're looking for a school

to suit a high achiever or a merely average one.

"Schools that get the top VCE results get that in part because they get top

students coming in ... but how would a similar student achieve in any other

school? That's the sort of information parents want to know.

"If you think your child is about average, how can you make a judgement about

the performance of the schools that you're going to choose from? It's almost

impossible."

Professor Cuttance would like to see much more information made available to

parents. He says a great deal of data is already collected and there are no

technical problems in, say, tracking student performance. However, it must be

conveyed in a way that parents can understand, and it must come with some

"quality assurance" and guarantee that it is not simply serving the interests

of individual schools, the education bureaucracy or the government of the day.

"There's a role for intermediary or community-type organisations who could

interpret (data) and provide it back in different ways to different parents and

communities," Professor Cuttance says.

Student achievement at every level, behaviour, how many get jobs, which

universities or TAFEs they go to: it should all, says Professor Cuttance, be

made available.

"The reason there are squabbles about things like VCE results is that we let

out so little information. Yes, people will construct league tables, but so

what? There'll be hundreds of league tables. That's fine. We'll be able to say,

well for this type of child, here's the school where these kids seem to have

achieved best and developed best."

Parents do their homework

The 26 Templestowe Heights Primary School year 6 students shown in the photo

were randomly selected but their secondary schooling choices broadly reflect

wider patterns. Three are planning to attend Catholic schools, four are off to

other independent schools, and 19 will be divided among three government

secondary schools.

In Victoria, about 65 per cent of students attend government schools; of the

remaining 35 per cent, most (69 per cent of them) attend Catholic schools and

11 per cent are at independent schools.

An Age survey of the parents of the year 6s showed that when assessing schools,

they're interested in discipline, reputation, facilities, VCE results, welfare

programs, religious education, location and cost. They attend open days and

information nights, often accompanied by their children, talk to other parents,

meet principals and teachers and read newsletters.

When her daughter was still in year 5, Lisa Gates seized every chance to talk

to other parents at a range of schools. She also visited schools on open days

and says parents should look at how such events are managed.

The family considered private schools but has chosen a government one. It's

partly a family lifestyle choice: Mrs Gates works part-time, so that she can

spend more time with her three children, and they value their many family

weekends away together. That and expensive school fees didn't necessarily go

together but she says she would have looked more seriously at independent

schools if she weren't so satisfied with what the government schools were

offering.

"We're very lucky in this area," Mrs Gates says. "I have a choice of three

really good secondary public schools. Some areas may not have that choice."

Ask the children why they're going to a particular school and they sometimes

appear to be echoing their parents, talking solemnly of facilities and that

elusive concept, "good education". Some things spark more enthusiasm: Nicholas

and Michael nominate computer programs as big attractions, Adam (who plays

football, cricket and basketball) is happy about his "very sporty school", and

Alec is looking forward to gyms and soccer fields.

For the girls, culture rather than sport is the recurring theme, and the chance

to pursue dramatic interests is an attractive proposition for Jennie, Stacey

and Leah. But not necessarily the most important one. Leah's school has a

theatre, yes - "and lots of friends are going there too".

For many of these children, friends are both reason and justification for the

choice. Fatma, who wants to be a tennis player, is happy about her proposed

school because "my friends are going there". Najah's pleased because "all my

friends are going there". Ricki is glad " 'cause it's close and I've got

friends there and my brother goes there and my cousin". Stacey, though happy

about a school that she feels has "things other schools don't have", is wistful

about the prospect of being parted from her best friend.

The last word goes to Thais, who will follow classmates rather than siblings

next year. "Friends are important," she says.

-- Alice Russell

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Two Photos: Next stop: secondary school - Templestowe Heights year 6
students and the schools they will go to in 2005 - back row (left to right):
Thais (Doncaster Secondary College) , Vicki (Doncaster Secondary College),
Monika (Doncaster Secondary College), Ben (Doncaster Secondary College, William
(Camberwell Grammar School), Melissa (Macleod College), Najah (Doncaster
Secondary College), Clifford (Yarra Valley Grammar), Adam (Marcellin College) -
middle row: Allyssa (Siena College), Fatma (Doncaster Secondary College), Claire
(Doncaster Secondary College), Jennie (Doncaster Secondary College), Leah
(Doncaster Secondary College), Lauren (Templestowe College), Ricki (Templestowe
College), Simon (Templestowe College) - front row: Jonathan (Templestowe
College), Caroline (Templestowe College), Burcin (Doncaster Secondary College),
Alec (Doncaster Secondary College), Michael (Doncaster Secondary College), Anand
(Camberwell Grammar School), Ravi (Doncaster Secondary College), Nicholas
(Whitefriars College). - With sign: Stacey (Ivanhoe Girls Grammar School); The
year 6 students are looking forward to next year. Picture: Simon Schluter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2004 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              914 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Frome and Somerset Standard

                                  July 4, 2013

Parents asked to foot the bill for transport costs at faith school

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 391  words


Around 200 families with children starting at a faith school from September 2014
could be asked to cover the costs of sending them there, potentially saving
Somerset County Council £100,000 a year.

Currently, parents in Somerset choosing a faith school ahead of their local
school pay on average just £230 of the average annual transport bill of £650 per
child.

A phased withdrawal of these travel subsidies for children from September 2014
is among the proposals of a council review of the Home to School Transport
Policy.

Schools run by the Clifton Diocese would be particularly affected by the move.

Director of Schools and Colleges for the Clifton Diocese, Colleen Collett, has
pointed out that by teaching children in faith schools they are saving the
council much of the cost of their education with the diocese paying £6 million
over the past decade for school maintenance.

The county council says that low-paid parents would not be affected.

"Where families are on low income we will continue to support them, but for
other families choosing to send children a long way, often outside Somerset,
then it is only fair that we should ask whether they should pay the full costs,"
said cabinet member Councillor Frances Nicholson.

"Somerset is unusual in continuing to offer this level of support. Most councils
have already dropped it.

"We are in a consultation exercise, no decision has been taken, but most people
understand that councils are under increasing pressure. We must make sure every
pound we get is targeted at those families who need it most."

The total bill for school and college transport is £13 million. Many of the
13,500 students receive free transport because they are legally entitled to it.
The current consultation does not affect any aspect of that entitlement.

The review of subsidies for faith school transport, by bus or in the form of a
petrol allowance, is just one of six proposals to update the policy.

Students attending further education colleges and any already receiving help
with their school transport costs are not affected.

The consultation runs until July 10. Full details of the changes being proposed,
and how to respond, can be found at http://www.somersetconsults.org.uk.

Alternatively a request for the consultation document can be made by email to
generalen quiries@somerset.gov.uk, or by calling 0845 345 9122.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 185


                    Copyright 2013 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              915 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                           August 28, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Apprentice scheme comes with Warranty

SECTION: OPPORTUNITIES;FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 340 words


Georgina Hatton left college with a number of options to choose from, but says
she is pleased to have picked an apprenticeship with The Warranty Group.

The 18-year-old is undergoing a 12-month learning and development apprenticeship
at the Mitcheldean office as part of a number of initiatives by the business.

Georgina started at the extended warranties and insurance provider last year,
almost immediately after completing her A levels. She had already applied for a
university place to read business studies, in addition to another apprenticeship
with a district council.

Georgina, of Coleford, said: "I applied for both opportunities and was invited
for interviews. "I was pleased when I was offered the job as learning and
development administrator with The Warranty Group. "I love the working
environment and knowing I'm learning such valuable skills, choosing to go down
the apprenticeship route was absolutely the right decision for me as I couldn't
be happier and am excited at the prospect of what the future holds." She added
she loved working in an office and being part of a team. Her job involves
booking courses, co-ordinating feedback and customer relations. Martin Scrivens
, The Warranty Group's learning and development general manager, said he was
delighted with the success of the apprenticeship and the way Georgina had
integrated herself into the working environment.

"Gloucestershire College currently provide us with a number of bespoke courses,
including a Management Development programme, so we knew they would be the ideal
resource in helping to recruit the perfect candidate for our apprenticeship and
they have done just that with Georgina," he said.

Gloucester born and raised in the Forest, Martin is a key member of the senior
management team. He oversees the group's apprentices like Georgina, working
closely with Gloucestershire College and local schools.

The Warranty Group also sponsors FODCast, which gives Forest secondary schools
the chance to make radio programmes about a local subject of their choosing.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Georgina Hatton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLE


                      Copyright 2013 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              916 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)

                            February 7, 2010 Sunday

Maryland Industry Focus: Education

BYLINE: Daily Record Staff Report

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 436  words


Overview

 Maryland's Education sector, which includes elementary and secondary schools as
well as post-secondary educational institutions and professional, technical and
trade schools, employed approximately 258,800 workers during the first quarter
of 2009 - a figure that reflects both private and public institutions.

In detail

 Between the first quarters of 2008 and 2009, the fastest growing sub-sector in
terms of percent rate was Technical and Trade Schools, which expanded at a 16.6
percent clip. As for overall industry employment, this sub-sector is
overshadowed by Elementary and Secondary Schools, which employs approximately
six out of 10 industry employees. The Colleges, Universities and Professional
Schools sub-sector added the greatest number of employees during the time period
- accounting for nearly 57.0 percent of overall employment growth in the
industry.



Average weekly wages within the Education sector amounted to $916 during the
first quarter of 2009 - a $40 decline from the average posted during the final
quarter of 2008. Nevertheless, the industry's average remained above the average
for Maryland's overall employment base ($777).

A look ahead

 Technical and trade schools have seen an increase in payrolls as a result of a
marked uptick in enrollment. In light of economic realities, many students are
choosing trade and training schools over traditional colleges or universities
due to cheaper tuition rates and faster graduation. A number of individuals are
choosing this path in order to learn new skills and improve their chances of
rejoining the work force when the economy rebounds.

 Increased enrollment, however, is not only being driven by people going back to
school for retraining. As the recession has affected household wealth, technical
and trade school demand has increased as an alternative to costly four-year
colleges for first-time students.

 Although recent enrollment spikes at technical and trade schools may stem from
the recession, an increase in demand was evident before. According to the
Consolidated Annual Report published by the U.S. Department of Education, about
16 million students were enrolled nationally in career and technical education
during the 2006-2007 school year, compared with 9.66 million in 1999 - an
increase that exceeded population growth during that time.



 Furthermore, according to the Department of Labor, the fastest-growing segment
of the American economy is in those careers requiring two years or less of
post-secondary education. If this trend continues, we can expect to see
continued employment growth in this industry component.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved

                              917 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Weekly Cutting Edge

                           February 18, 2012 Saturday

IT needs more than a university rank

LENGTH: 1019  words

DATELINE: Karachi


It would be wrong to think that there is a lack of opportunities in Information
Technology because of the cost-cutting and layoffs. The opportunities in IT are
still there but only for those with the required skills, which means having full
command of the subject and its applications. This is where the important role of
the institute, where one gets trained and acquires skills for the practical
field, comes in.  There are many universities in Pakistan that offer degree
programmes in computer science and students' preference for one university over
the other varies based on different factors.

The universities which claim to produce the cream of the crop and are ranked
among the best by the Higher Education Commission (HEC) are often preferred by
the companies as well when hiring fresh graduates. But students' preference
still does not depend upon this ranking. And if it does, the mindset has to be
changed because while choosing a university that will shape your future, one
must consider many other things, too, besides just the institute's ranking.
According to Dr Abdul Wahab, president, Mohammad Ali Jinnah University, location
and environment are the two basic factors--especially for female students--when
choosing a university. And this is not just true for those institutes that offer
computer science programmes, but for all other educational organisations as
well.  Dr Wahab is of the opinion that a university should be situated in an
area where students can reach without any hassle.  Secondly, a student spends
half of his/her day at the university and the environment of the institute
highly affects his/her personality. The universities which have successfully
implemented disciplinary rules should be the first choice for students.  Dr
Wahab criticises the ranking system and says that a university should not be
graded on the basis of the area it covers, the number of PhD faculty members it
has or the number of research papers published by its graduating
students/faculty members.  "The quality of education, discipline and the
training which groom the students to become better human beings, are some of the
substantial features that any university must be graded on the basis of,"
asserts Dr Wahab.  Asif Ali (not his real name), assistant professor in a
private university opines that a university can improve on its ranking by
acquiring more space or by hiring more PhDs but its actual worth can only be
measured by the quality of graduates it has been producing.  While shedding
light on students' preferences for universities offering computer science
programmes, Asif says that the students are too inexperienced to choose the
right institute for themselves right after completing their intermediate. So
their choice usually goes with the more popular.  "Due to their lack of
knowledge, the students tend to overlook the most important factor, i.e., the
quality of education provided by a university," indicates Asif.  In response to
a question regarding the industry's preferences while hiring, he revealed, "Most
companies prefer computer science graduates from NED, FAST-NU and SZABIST." He
further elaborates that companies choose those IT graduates who don't just have
theoretical knowledge but also expertise in the practical implementation of that
knowledge. This is where many graduates--even with good Cumulative Grade Point
Average (CGPA)--fail to impress the employers.  Asif explains that in order to
overcome this problem, students are required to learn skills that are mostly in
demand by the industry. For example, 'C' language is an essential part of the
computer science curriculum but it is no longer used in the practical world so
besides studying course books, learning something out of the syllabus such as
advanced programming languages will help the student get the job easily.  He
also urges the teachers to understand the needs of the job market and says,
"This responsibility lies with the teachers as well--they should not remain
stuck to the syllabus only. They should rather help the students learn practical
skills as well."  As discussed earlier, too, there are opportunities available
in the IT industry but for the skillful. And students studying in big cities
such as Karachi, Lahore and Islamabad are more  blessed to have good
universities as well as many private institutes where they can learn in-demand
programming and other skills required for a computer professional to succeed.
But one may also think about those students who are not so privileged and live
away from the big cities such as the students of rural/tribal areas. What are
they supposed to do to compete with the top-notch IT students with all the
facilities?  To this, Zafar Nasir, a professor at FAST-NU, provides wonderful
guidelines while pointing out that it is not just in a developing country such
as Pakistan but in the USA and European countries as well that only those IT
graduates with strong practical skills are in demand.  Zafar feels that the
success lies in having expertise and the university tag will not always help!
"Be it a student from a big city or a tribal area, success really depends on the
efforts put in by him/her," he says.  Zafar says that Java developers are in
great demand. But there are very few of them available so in order to grab
better job opportunities, one can become proficient in programming skills even
without going to any first-rate IT school. He suggests for the students residing
in rural and tribal areas to get themselves enrolled in IT courses being offered
online or simply download the freely available lectures/e-books.  He further
advises to make the best use of the books available at the nearest libraries if
the internet facility is not available to you. Zafar encourages the students to
get motivated and put in extra effort if they want to be successful in the field
of information technology. "Lack of facilities may come in your way to achieving
a better GPA but acquiring practical skills needed by the IT industry depends on
you alone. It is the ultimate factor to bring you success in the long run," he
concludes.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              918 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                August 21, 2000

Web is on course for student needs

SECTION: News: EDUCATION, Pg.9

LENGTH: 192 words


INFORMATION on higher education courses in Gloucestershire n including the price
of a pint in the students' union bar n should be easier to find with the launch
of a new web site.

Cheltenham and Gloucester College of Higher Education has developed pages on its
web site to give prospective students an insight into higher education.

The marketing manager of the college, Paula Redman, said choosing a course can
be difficult because there are many avenues to take.

She said: "Prospective students are turning increasingly to the internet to find
further information."

The enhanced website has information on undergraduate, postgraduate, part-time
and continuing education courses.

There are sections on the student experience which give advice on finance and
what is like to be a mature student.

Prospective students can also find out what current students think after
studying at the college for a year and how much a pint of beer in the Students'
Union costs.

The site, at www.chelt.ac.uk/prospectus, aims to answer many of the queries
people have when choosing a course.

The internet is available across the county in all libraries.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2000 The Gloucester Citizen

                              919 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                           October 24, 2015 Saturday

No plans for satellite campus in India: Peter Salovey, President, Yale
University

BYLINE: Varuni Khosla

SECTION: INTERVIEWS

LENGTH: 652 words


Peter Salovey, president of Yale University and the Chris Argyris Professor of
Psychology, was in India recently after visiting Singapore. He had been to the
island-nation to launch Yale's permanent campus there in collaboration with the
National University of Singapore. In an interview with ET, Salovey, AGE, said
Yale is receiving more Indian students than ever before. Edited excerpts:

Yale recently set up a campus in partnership with NUS in Singapore. How will the
Yale model work in Asia?

The Yale-National University of Singapore (NUS) College is Singapore's first
liberal arts college. It isn't just a multidirectional exchange, there is
involvement of information capital to teach liberal arts. From our perspective,
we cannot discuss liberal arts sitting in our 'narrow' part of the world (US).
So we decided to expand our expertise here, wherein which our faculty will come
to teach from time to time along with the existing scholar network in Asia.

Do you expect more Indians to apply to the Yale-NUS campus, given its proximity?

I think there are different programmes in the US. Yale in Connecticut is a
research university and students of all levels come to study there. I think
undergraduates who want a degree in liberal arts in an international location
will go to Yale-NUS. But we see a lot of students applying to both colleges. But
it's too early to say yet which way they will go.

Will there be an India Yale campus?

Our model is not to build satellite campuses and I think we worry about
maintaining quality of faculty and students in satellite campuses. We worry that
these satellite campuses can create an enclave where students don't really
interact with the local culture. Rather, what we'd like to do is to build
partnerships where we bring things to the table that complement something an
international partner (in this case Indian) would bring to the table. We'd
create a programme that doesn't necessarily exist at either institution. We've
done many of these in China. But that partnership model is more of our form of
engagement as opposed to a satellite campus. So, no plans for a satellite campus
in India.

Are there any other India-specific tie-ups you're looking at in the near future?

Our school of management has developed an international network for advanced
studies in management for 27 business schools and IIM (Indian Institute of
Management) Bangalore is a member of that network. Students can share classroom
experiences through technology and there can be various kinds of exchanges in
the network. This network has made Yale's School of Management, I think, the
most international business school in the US.

Is there a shift in the kind of courses Indians are choosing at Yale?

In the undergraduate population from India, there is a lot of interest in
economics, political science but they're choosing a liberal arts education and
in the US, employers recognise that a liberal arts education helps build
graduates who are great problem solvers, are creative and can think critically,
communicate clearly and work in teams. I think we're starting to see that
interest in employers here in India as well. New universities like Ashoka
emphasise that learning and are a reflection of that. We signed an MoU
(memorandum of understanding) with them for an expansion of their ongoing
collaboration to jointly develop opportunities through faculty-initiated and
faculty-directed teaching and research activities.

Is Asia growing as an important segment for Yale?

We have very strong students coming out of Asia and have graduates who either
want to stay on in the US or come back to Asia and we think both outcomes are
good things. There is increasing interest from undergraduates in liberal
education and they're very well prepared students. For graduate programmes,
there have been very many Indian students for some time now. That's strong for
us.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              920 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 April 27, 2004

University course places down to random selection

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 380 words


CHOOSING students randomly for popular physiotherapy degree courses was defended
yesterday by two Yorkshire universities.

James Reed

Education Correspondent

Huddersfield University and Leeds Metropolitan University have admitted using
random selection to choose between candidates judged to be equally well
qualified.

Physiotherapy rivals medicine and law as being among the most popular degree
courses, with universities receiving up to 1,000 applications for as few as 50
places.

Huddersfield University insisted the method was more effective than interviewing
and argued the real problem was the disproportionate interest in physiotherapy
over other similar vocations.

Even after taking into account GCSE results, predicted A-level grades,
references and personal statements, the university still has to chose which of
600 students it will make one of 200 offers to.

Penny Renwick, head of the clinical and health sciences department, said:
"Interviews are not necessarily any fairer than the process we have got.

"We found in the past we had a disproportionately high number of female students
because young girls at 17 interview a lot better than 17-year-old boys. But, by
the time they graduate, the boys have caught up.

"The shame of it is there are so many other rewarding healthcare professions to
go into that are struggling to get applicants".


She suggested the practice of random selection was more widespread and
Huddersfield and Leeds Met had just been more open about it.

Both Leeds Met and Huddersfield pointed to the work of Government's review of
higher education admissions, led by Prof Steven Schwartz, as casting doubt on
the reliability of interviews.

Leeds Met vice-chancellor Prof Simon Lee said the university faced two
challenges - choosing between the many applicants and making sure it was
bringing people from diverse backgrounds into physiotherapy.

He said: "As the Schwartz committee is finding, interviews do not necessarily
produce an objective, balanced intake. Once our applicants are judged to be able
to flourish in the course, choosing between them in this way can widen
participation".


A Sheffield Hallam University spokeswoman said it did not operate random
selection on any of its courses.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              921 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                           September 28, 2012 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Do your homework before that big move; Finding the right community for Victoria
mom, teen was key

BYLINE: Jane Cardillo, Edmonton Journal

SECTION: HOMES; Pg. D10

LENGTH: 874 words


Heather McRae went where other parents might fear to tread: The Victoria woman
uprooted her teenage son as he was about to enter his senior high-school year
and moved him to Edmonton where a new job awaited her.

That would be hard enough on most 16-year-olds, but Chris Brewster was leaving
not only a girlfriend behind, he was also parting ways with his football buddies
who were like a second family.

"He played for the provincial winning team in British Columbia," McRae says.

"They won at the junior varsity level as well as the senior varsity level last
year.

"He's very much part of the football culture and has lots of friends associated
with football."

McRae wanted to make the move as smooth as possible.

"Because there's just the two of us - my husband died six years ago - we have a
really good relationship and I wanted to make sure that Chris had input into the
decision-making process," McRae says.

So, the No. 1 priority was finding a school where Chris would feel at home and
help him meet his goal of going on to play college football.

Next on the list was choosing a house.

It had to be close to public transit. McRae planned to ride the bus and LRT to
her job at the University of Alberta's downtown campus and Chris would bus to
school.

Even the needs of the family dog, a 13-year-old American Eskimo, were
considered.

The dog loves walks, says McRae, and a house that was close to trails would be
ideal.

How do you find the right community for your family, the right school for your
son, and happy trails for your dog? That's challenging enough when you're
familiar with a city, but it can be overwhelming for a newcomer.

McRae began with her computer. Even before moving here, she visited Edmonton
communities and schools online.

"The Internet gave me a very good sense of what was available, the pricing, what
some of the neighbourhoods had to offer and where they were located," says
McRae.

One site she found particularly helpful was Edmonton Real Estate Pro.

"I could look at specific neighbourhoods, I could compare prices. It has a
walkable score and it has the Google map site so you can actually get that sense
of the aerial view to see where the trees and the walking paths are."

Then, McRae studied transit maps of the neighbourhoods she liked most.

"So I could get a sense of where the transit lines were going and what was
accessible."

She also used a less high-tech way to learn about the city.

"I talked to people here in the faculty and asked them where they lived and
where their children went to school and what kinds of neighbourhoods they liked
the best."

Connecting face-to-face with school officials helped, too. McRae and Chris met
with teachers at five schools in and around Edmonton that had football programs.
Some gave her copies of local newspapers so she could learn more about the
community and the housing market.

"All the schools were incredibly wonderful about meeting with us, touring us
around and introducing us to players and coaches," she says.

In the end, McRae and Chris chose Harry Ainlay High School. Despite the fact the
school is twice the size of his old one, Chris is settling in well.

"He's already gone with his team on a road trip," says his mom. "He's met a lot
of students, everybody's been really great about telling him where the
classrooms are and what he needs to do."

The house they bought is on the south side. It's within the budget McRae set for
herself and it's about a 25-minute bus ride from the school and about 40 minutes
by bus and LRT to McRae's workplace.

Walking trails abound. That means the furred member of the family is happy as
well.

"The dog and I have already walked on the trails," says McRae. "There's lots of
things to sniff and look at, so she's really enjoying it."

Donna Bygrave, marketing manager with United Communities, a major residential
land developer, says the way McRae approached her searches was bang-on.

"That makes sense to get into the community and then go out and visit schools
and get online to find out what's available, what's close by, what's not,"
Bygrave says.

She suggests other useful online sites.

"The Edmonton Economic Development website has a lot of information on moving to
Edmonton," Bygrave says. "A lot of the surrounding communities, like St. Albert
or Beaumont, have wonderful information on their websites about everything from
what your taxes are likely to be to recreational facilities."

McRae says a realtor who toured her around neighbourhoods and negotiated the
purchase of the home, was invaluable.

Bygrave agrees.

"Realtors are going to be a huge resource, particularly the ones that specialize
in certain areas. They can tell you more about it than anybody out there because
they deal with that every day of their lives."

Bygrave also advises house hunters to visit show homes in new communities.

"Salespeople in show homes are immensely helpful. One of the first questions
they ask is, 'What's your budget?' So then they can direct you to what they have
within that budget."

For McRae, the effort she put into finding the right home for her family seems
to be paying off.

"Everything's worked out really well. I have met a lot of the neighbours
already. We feel very welcomed. It just feels like home already.

"We're really happy about that."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ed Kaiser, Edmonton Journal; Before making her move from Victoria,
B.C., to a new job, Heather McRae researched the city - starting with the
website Edmonton Real Estate Pro - before choosing her home in south Edmonton.;
Ed Kaiser, Edmonton Journal;  A key criterion for Heather McRae in choosing
where to settle in Edmonton was a nearby trail system for the family pet.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              922 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Maryland Gazette

                             July 31, 2010 Saturday

BUSINESS SENSE: Helping schools find their Signature

BYLINE: FRAN SCHMIDT, For the MarylGazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 530  words


I have been privileged to be part of the Integrated Community Stakeholder Team
for North County High School as they worked through the process of choosing the
Signature theme for their school.

They have just received approval for their IT3 Signature - International Trade,
Transportation and Tourism.

I have to tell you that it has been a long and involved process. I give a lot of
credit to Joyce Coleman, the Signature Program Facilitator at North County High
School, for her dedication to the students, parents and community. She has held
countless meetings to accumulate data reflecting the interest, culture,
resources and businesses in the Northern Anne Arundel community. At times, it
was like herding cats as Coleman tried to keep everyone on track and focused on
developing the Signature theme.

It is important to realize that each of the 12 comprehensive high schools in
Anne Arundel County will be offering a unique Signature Program. That means that
each high school will have to go through the same process for choosing their
Signature and will need a lot of business and community involvement!

Old Mill High School, Northeast High School and Chesapeake High School have just
begun the process to choose their Signatures. They have each held World Cafes
where business representatives, community leaders, and interested parents come
together to discuss what themes would benefit the students in each school and
what resources are available to support the proposed themes.Individuals from
each of six community arenas - business/industry, health, education, community
services, media and communication, and government are needed at each school to
form the leadership core of the Integrated Community Stakeholder Team.

A Signature offers high school students unique thematic courses and
co-curricular opportunities that are workforce relevant and may include
technical, community college and/or four-year college pathways. The Signature
specifically relates topics and ideas to a theme that is unique to each school
community. Students will engage in signature-related courses, after school
programs, and internship work opportunities throughout their high school years.

Students who participate in the Signature will be able to choose from
specially-designed courses, co-curricular and career opportunities enhanced with
the school's unique theme. These may include seminars with leaders in their
field, internships, mentoring, technical and community college courses, online
learning and other real world experiences.

There are many advantages for students who participate in Signature
opportunities. Students who take full advantage of the Signature Program will
complete high school highly qualified for both the workforce and higher
education experiences. Many Signature students will complete high school with a
technical certificate or college credit.

This is an exciting time to get involved with the Anne Arundel County Public
School system. I encourage everyone to join forces with their local high school
to develop a Signature theme that will benefit the whole community.

---

Fran Schmidt is CEO of the Northern Anne Arundel County Chamber of Commerce.

Fran@naaccc.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2010 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              923 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                       April 11, 2014 Friday 6:15 PM GMT

New head boy and girl at St Mary's College;
ST MARY'S college has appointed a new head boy and head girl for the new school
year.

BYLINE: By Crosby Herald

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 240 words


ST MARY'S college has appointed a new head boy and head girl for the new school
year.

Tim Old from Crosby is studying sciences at A Level and intends to read medicine
at university.

He is the leader of the School Council and very much involved in music, singing,
debate and public speaking at the school.

Away from college, he is a keen member of the Scouts.

Alex Formela aims to study biology at university, and has also proved herself to
be an outstanding art student.

Also from Crosby, she is a prominent member of the school's combined cadet
force.

Last year, after a major fundraising exercise, she accompanied a group of
disabled people on a pilgrimage to Lourdes.

Choosing a head boy and head girl is a very in-depth process at the school.

Initially staff nominate around 30 pupils who they feel should be considered for
the roles.

Then staff and sixth formers are invited to cast their votes to produce a
shortlist of eight.

The final selection is then made on the basis of interviews with the candidates
conducted by principal, Mike Kennedy and head of sixth form, Daniel Magill.

Mr Kennedy said: "In choosing our head boy and head girl we look for a proven
track record of service to the college and the community, a wide range of
personal skills and an aptitude to lead others and to represent all that is best
about St Mary's.

"This year we are again fortunate to have such outstanding students as Tim and
Alex in these very important roles."

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              924 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             January 2, 2006 Monday
                                 First Edition

It's a living thing;
UNIVERSITY ADVISORY DAY

BYLINE: Perrie Croshaw

SECTION: SUPPLEMENT; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 612 words


There are options galore when it comes to choosing where to live, writes Perrie
Croshaw.

ALL you want is a room somewhere, far away from the cold night air. With one
enormous chair ... And a bed, desk, light, media area, bathroom and food
prep-aration area wouldn't go astray.

Some say choosing where to live (and with whom) while studying can be harder
than doing the HSC. But there are whole departments at your tertiary institution
geared to help you find a suitable roof to put over you and your computer.

On campus

The housing service at the University of Technology, Sydney has a variety of

self-catering student accommodation in university-owned shared flats and

bedsitters. Bulga Ngurra in Ultimo and Geegal in Chippendale have rooms for
people with disabilities. A new complex, the Quadrant Apartments on Broadway,
houses about 250 students, with a range of studio and share apartments.

The Sydney University Village in Camperdown houses 650 students. Sharing a
five-bedroom apartment costs about $150 a week, while a one-bedroom studio is
about $270 a week. This includes water rates, but not electricity or phone.
There are also shared flats, houses and subsidised self-catering units with
twin-share rooms from about $110 a person.

The eight on-campus colleges have places for 1537 students. Prices range from
$130 to $140 a person a week for a self-catering single room in Darlington House
to a twin-share at $200 a week a person for full board. Single rooms with full
board cost between $260 and $360 a person a week. Some colleges also have one-
and two-bedroom units.

The University of NSW has eight res-idential colleges on its Kensington campus,
all with full board. Basic fees for 2005 were $240 to $290 a week.

The university's Mulwarree Apartments provide shared apartment living for 185
students. The Barker Apartments on the main campus at Kensington offer 231
places, mostly in five-bedroom units, although smaller units are available.

Newcastle University has about 1000 bedrooms in three colleges and a motel-style
residence, Barahineban, is on the south-eastern corner of the Callaghan campus.

Wollongong University has a number of university-managed residences close to the
campus as well as to Wollongong CBD.

Some colleges have early cut-off dates, due to the number of inquiries. Places
are limited and generally you will need to apply by September or October for the
following year. A personal interview and/or references are usually required.
There is normally an application fee (see each college's website), which you may
lose if you choose not to take up an offer.

Off campus

Students should allow about $15,400 a year, or $305 a week, to live in Sydney to
cover rent, food, fares, electricity, gas and phone. Entertainment and a social
life is extra - for some, a lot extra.

Most universities help students and staff find private rental accommodation.
Check noticeboards on your campus or call at your student accommodation office
for lists of rooms, houses or flats.

For shared accommodation, you can expect to pay $120 to $180 a week, plus
establishment costs (bond, rent in advance, gas and electricity connection, etc)
of about $1500 to $2000 a person. Subsidised accommodation is available at some
universities, but you need to be on a Centrelink allowance to qualify.

Contacts

Macquarie University

www.student.mq.edu.au; 9850 7376.

University of Sydney

www.usyd.edu.au/accom; 9351 3312.

University of Technology, Sydney

www.housing.uts.edu.au; 9514 1529. University of NSW

www.housing.unsw.edu.au; 9385 4985.

University of Newcastle www.newcastle.edu.au/services/accommodation; 4921 5592.

Wollongong University www.uow.edu.au/about/accommodation; 4221 5467.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              925 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                            March 19, 2016 Saturday
                               Advertiser Edition

A bitter pill to swallow

BYLINE: SUE DUNLEVY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 956  words


Parents this week were encouraged not to give children pain relievers to ease
fever and doctors told to refuse antibiotics for kids with ear infections.
National health writer SUE DUNLEVY looks at the reasons behind a crackdown on
needless medical treatment.

YOUR toddler is squirming with pain from an earache and you're facing a
sleepless night - but the latest medical guidelines say your doctor shouldn't
write a prescription for antibiotics.

For mother-of-two Sally Anne Judd, the ruling from the Australia's expert
medical colleges is tough advice. She has a friend whose child was recently
hospitalised for two days when an infection attacked the bones in the ear.

Ms Judd says she tries to avoid using antibiotics but is worried the new
guidelines might discourage parents from seeking medical advice.

"It's hard when reports make you feel you are overreacting when you want to give
your kids medication," she says.

Infectious diseases experts, however, warn that it's the overuse of these
precious drugs that is returning Australian health care to the pre-antibiotic
age when we have to use surgery to remove infections rather than a pill.

Professor Lindsay Grayson from Victoria's Austin Hospital told a recent Senate
inquiry a patient who came to hospital for a minor surgical procedure on their
wrist ended up having their bowel removed.

The patient went home with a colostomy bag because they picked up a superbug
resistant to antibiotics while in hospital, he told the committee.

It's the overuse of antibiotics for minor infections that is fuelling the
explosion of these resistant infections that are killing Australians.

The recommendation that antibiotics should not routinely be prescribed for an
ear infection was part of some confronting advice from the Choosing Wisely
campaign this week.

Fourteen medical colleges ruled that 61 tests, treatments and procedures should
be limited because they were unnecessary or dangerous or were wasting precious
health dollars.

With Medicare now costing almost $30 billion a year, Australians are used to
governments trying to restrict Medicare rebates to make budget savings - but
this time it is the medical profession itself volunteering to cut waste.

NPS MedicineWise chief Dr Lyn Weekes' organisation is overseeing the campaign,
which has signed up nearly two-thirds of Australia's medical colleges to a
regime of cutting unnecessary treatments.

It's the second time in a year doctors have offered up a range of medical
treatments they say are being overused and if the new guidelines are adhered to
hundreds of millions of dollars could be saved.

There are now 86 medical treatments doctors are trying to limit. NPS
MedicineWise GP Dr Andrew Boyden says the campaign is modelled on a similar
exercise in the United States.

Advances in medical research come thick and fast and it can sometimes be
overwhelming for doctors to keep pace with changes in what is considered best
practice; this campaign helps distil those changes for doctors.

"The evidence that has evolved around treatment is enormous, we sometimes need
to take a breath and think about what is recommended," he says.

The result is a new set of guidelines that turns what many of us thought was
accepted medical practice on its head.

Parents who reach for pain relievers to reduce a child's temperature are being
told new evidence shows fever is good and stops viruses and bacteria
multiplying.

They should only use medication to reduce a fever if it's making their child
uncomfortable or distressed.

When you've got a chest infection that's hard to beat doctors usually order a
chest X-ray.

More than 140,000 chest X-rays are ordered every year. It's the most frequent
image ordered by GPs but Choosing Wisely says it exposes patients to unnecessary
radiation and rarely changes the treatment patients get - and doctors should
think twice before ordering one.

The campaign also asks patients and doctors to question whether ultrasounds for
thyroid complaints, groin hernias, X-rays for lower back pain and endoscopy for
gastric band patients are needed. Doctors reckon almost 40 per cent of X-rays
for foot and ankle trauma would not be needed if medicos followed proper
diagnostic protocols.

Colonoscopies to check for bowel cancer cost $3000 per procedure and Choosing
Wisely estimates more than one in seven are unnecessary and a much cheaper
faecal blood test could have been used instead.

It warns colonoscopies are not without risk, with some patients dying from
complications when their bowel is perforated during the test.

Dr Boyden says more is not always better when it comes to medicine. It is
important to ensure the benefit of any medical intervention outweighs the risk
before racing off for a test, he says.

Doctors have come up with the list of treatments that should be restricted but
Choosing Wisely wants patients involved in the discussion too.

Patients need to be aware of the latest medical guidelines so they are not
shocked when doctors advise against a test or a medicine, says Dr Boyden.

Surveys have found doctors often prescribe antibiotics for the common cold or a
virus even though they know it won't help, simply because they feel pressured to
do so by their patients.

If patients can be educated about what is best practice before they see their
doctor they might have different expectations when they see their GP, Dr Boyden
says.

Ms Judd says she's aware that parents shouldn't instinctively reach for
medication to control a fever and she trusts her family doctor when they
recommend against using antibiotics.However, she says her friend's experience
with an ear infection that got out of control also shows that sometimes a
parent's instinct is more important than a blanket ruling about antibiotic use.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Advertiser


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              926 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   Lilydale & Yarra Valley Leader (Australia)

                              June 22, 2009 Monday
                                  1 - Edition

Choosing to close gap

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 250  words


NEW figures show that Yarra Valley school leavers are choosing to study ahead of
looking for work.

According to On Track data released last week, the bulk of 2008 Year 12 school
leavers have chosen to study at university or TAFE, or undertake
apprenticeships.

Healesville High School led the way with apprenticeship enrolments (26 per cent)
and TAFE enrolments (42 per cent), while 63 per cent of Oxley College students
are enrolled at university.

Former Mt Lilydale Mercy College student Jess Ciccotelli, 18, is studying
journalism and public relations at Deakin University.

``I've always been interested in studying journalism and going to university was
the only way I could do this,'' Ms Ciccotelli said.

She said she decided against deferring because she didn't want to lose momentum
and had found the holiday at the end of her VCE year sufficient.

However, the lure of 12 months away from study proved popular with students from
Lilydale Adventist Academy, where 22 per cent opted to take time off before
taking up their tertiary enrolment.

The one school bucking the tertiary education trend was Lilydale Heights
College, where 41 per cent of students had found jobs.

Unemployment rates for school leavers generally remained low across the Yarra
Valley, however 16 per cent of Mt Evelyn Christian School school leavers were
looking for work, as were

10 per cent of Monbulk College and Upper Yarra Secondary College students.

On Track data is compiled from tertiary enrolment figures and student surveys.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEV


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              927 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                     PR.com

                      August 31, 2017 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Ninth Annual Montreal Private School Expo Coming September 10

BYLINE: Our Kids Media

LENGTH: 410  words


Mississauga, Canada,  August 31, 2017 --(PR.com)-- The ninth annual Our Kids
Private School Expo in Montreal, hosted by Our Kids Media, is coming to Centre
Mont-Royal, September 10, 2017. Nearly 30 schools will be at the expo, including
many private schools from within Montreal as well as several international
top-ranked boarding schools.

The Our Kids Private School Expo in Montreal is an annual event that allows
parents to meet face-to-face with school representatives and learn directly from
the schools about their admissions process, tuition fees and get answers to the
questions specific to their wants and needs. The Expo is a unique opportunity to
fully explore K-12 private education. Aside from meeting with the exhibiting
schools, information seminars with education experts further help Montreal area
families learn all they can about choosing the best school. Michael Lafrance of
West Island College and Marsha Warmuth of Selwyn House will present on "English
School Eligibility Under Bill 115." Our Kids Media will also moderate a panel of
experts on "Choosing and Applying to Schools."

Since 2009, Our Kids Private School Expo has helped more than 3,200
Montreal-area parents and students make the critical decision of which school
will provide the best opportunities for their future. B. Wang is one parent who
is adamant about the value of the expo. "The expo is excellent," he says. "We
can now rank schools based on which one will be best for our son."

Parents continue to see private education as a worthwhile investment, no matter
the cost. Families cite issues of class size, enriched academics, parent-teacher
relations, and bullying as just some reasons for their interest in private
school.

The Montreal event is one of six annual Our Kids Private School Expos held
across Canada. The expos have a track record of unprecedented success in helping
parents decide the education future of their children. Parents who register
ahead of time secure their spot and save 50% off admission. Pre-registration is
only $10.

You can learn all about the expo at
http://www.ourkids.net/expo/montreal-expo.php.

About Our Kids Media

Our Kids Media (OKM) is the Trusted Source for families looking for the best
learning and living experiences for their children. Its promotional resources
include the website ourkids.net, as well as consumer magazines, social media
channels, video and photo platforms, and mobile applications. OKM was
established in 1997.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2017 PR.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              928 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday

Don't rely on ranking

BYLINE: Linda Yeung

SECTION: YOUNGPOST; Pg. 05

LENGTH: 240 words


Hong Kong people love brand-names - even when it comes to choosing universities.

But a university coming top of the rankings and staying there, that could lead
to a negative impact on the quality of education. To rank highly, academics have
to do research, which means they spend less time with students.

Also, some polls are discipline-oriented, mainly focusing on the outcome of a
particular subject.

What's more, universities strong in disciplines such as science and engineering
- as opposed to humanities and social sciences - tend to rank more highly as
they are more active in research.

Ranking exercises can be confusing, too. For example, the recent surveys by QS
Intelligence Unit and Times Higher Education on the world's top universities
with a history of 50 years or less present contrasting results.

Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) led the QS poll of the top 50 such
institutions, ahead of the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology
(HKUST).

In the poll of the top 100 such colleges, however, CUHK trailed behind HKUST,
which came third after Switzerland's École Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne.

As with other personal choices, choosing a university requires an understanding
of one's likes and dislikes. Making decisions based on popular trends is a
mistake.

More important than a university's ranking is how well its set-up matches your
personality and needs - after all, you'll be there for three or four years.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: University poll results can be misleading when deciding where to study

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              929 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday

Don't rely on ranking

BYLINE: Linda Yeung

SECTION: YOUNGPOST; Pg. 05

LENGTH: 240 words


Hong Kong people love brand-names - even when it comes to choosing universities.

But a university coming top of the rankings and staying there, that could lead
to a negative impact on the quality of education. To rank highly, academics have
to do research, which means they spend less time with students.

Also, some polls are discipline-oriented, mainly focusing on the outcome of a
particular subject.

What's more, universities strong in disciplines such as science and engineering
- as opposed to humanities and social sciences - tend to rank more highly as
they are more active in research.

Ranking exercises can be confusing, too. For example, the recent surveys by QS
Intelligence Unit and Times Higher Education on the world's top universities
with a history of 50 years or less present contrasting results.

Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) led the QS poll of the top 50 such
institutions, ahead of the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology
(HKUST).

In the poll of the top 100 such colleges, however, CUHK trailed behind HKUST,
which came third after Switzerland's École Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne.

As with other personal choices, choosing a university requires an understanding
of one's likes and dislikes. Making decisions based on popular trends is a
mistake.

More important than a university's ranking is how well its set-up matches your
personality and needs - after all, you'll be there for three or four years.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: University poll results can be misleading when deciding where to study

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              930 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 24, 2011 Monday

Cribsheet 24.10.11

BYLINE: Judy Friedbergguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1133 words

ABSTRACT

Which university? The one with the best financial prospects, natch

FULL TEXT

What could signal more clearly the commodification of higher education than
Which? magazine's arrival on the scene? Yes, the magazine that tests washing
machines and televisions is going to do a university guide that'll compare such
product features as location, teaching and research standing - but most of all
will advise on whether a particular course will leave a student "at the end of
it be better placed to get a job to make it worthwhile".

Paul Greatrix, (@registrarism) registrar at Nottingham University, says choosing
a university is a lot trickier than picking a new set of wheels:

"It is much more subtle than buying a car. You can look at the data about a car
and compare it. But there are so many more complications in choosing a degree,
and you have to be the active participant in the process.

"I also think part of the argument of Which? being involved is the idea - and it
is a core capitalist idea - that if you provide people with perfect information
about a market you will be able to make perfect decisions, which is just
fallacious in the context of higher education."

Cribsheet, of course, recommends you stick with the Guardian University Guide,
with its exclusive rankings formula that takes into account the value
universities add to their intake and the way students feel about their
universities. A little bird tells me next year it'll be bigger and brighter than
ever.

More education news from the Guardian

· University application figures released by Ucas this morning show a 12% drop
on last year. Details from Jessica Shepherd coming soon.

· One in 10 students studying for A-levels has been put off university because
of the increase in tuition fees next year, a new survey suggests. Just under
half of those polled said they would consider studying abroad, and almost
two-thirds would consider apprenticeships as an alternative to a degree.

· A hot meal in the morning is one of the surest ways to achieve better results
for primary school children. Why then are more than half of breakfast clubs
facing closure

Education news from around the web

· Previewing the Higher Education Academy's forthcoming report on dropping out,
the Independent looks at some famous quitters who made the grade anyway.

· The BBC has a video of money man Alvin Hall suggesting ways of getting round
tuition fees - like skipping the country.

· The government has handed over more than £18.6m to schools to help them turn
into academies, the Mail reports.

· Black schoolboys can choose to perform poorly to avoid undermining their
masculinity, says the head of the Jamaican Teachers' Association. Adolph Cameron
says in Jamaica school success is often seen as feminine or "gay". He's
concerned the same cultural attitude is affecting the performance of
African-Caribbean male students in the UK, the BBC reports.

· There's an interesting blog by Nabil Ahmed (@nabilkahmed) on the New Statesman
site about Islamic student societies and the need for the government to keep
open the lines of communication with them.

· The THE quotes David Willetts as saying researchers must not feel obliged to
pursue research favoured by prestigious journals. He cited "persuasive"
complaints that research in some fields is distorted by the agendas of the top
journals, and insisted that the research excellence framework, which will be
used to allocated funding from 2014, will judge on the basis of "quality,
quality, quality, not location, location, location".

· Spotted this one on the tube this morning: a conference about zombies is
taking place on Friday at the University of Winchester. Organiser Marcus Leaning
tells the Metro:

"Zombies reflect the anxieties and concerns people have. One idea is that it's
due to austerity, another that it stems from the ''climate of fear'' after al
Qaida. No one really believes in zombies but it's a way of thinking about big
scary things such as a terrorist attack. It's cathartic."

Innovation in Education conference

How can we keep creativity alive in schools in an age of austerity and
traditionalism? At this one-day event for school leaders and policy-makers, to
be chaired by Judy Friedberg, we'll discuss the implications of cuts and
curriculum changes with speakers including Russell Hobby, Jim Knight, Graham
Stuart, Mick Waters and David Puttnam. Latest info on the Innovation in
Education page - and @InnovateEducate on Twitter.

Education seminars from Guardian Professional

The Guardian Teacher Network runs training sessions for teachers throughout the
year in Yorkshire and London. Upcoming courses include:

Is your school thinking of becoming an academy?

This seminarwill provide an independent view of the advantages and disadvantages
of converting to academy status. It will look at the process of conversion, the
implications of academy status, and the support and funding available. November
30, in London. February 21, 2012 in Yorkshire

Protecting young people in a digital age

Led by school digital safety experts, this one-day course will provide
safeguarding policy and Ofsted criteria updates, as well as looking at social
media and offering practical advice to help your school develop its digital
safety policies. February 1, 2012 in London. February 8, 2012 in Yorkshire.

For a full list visit the Guardian Teacher Network

Teachers seminar from the Guardian Education Centre

Insight into digital journalism

Spend a day at the Guardian and find out how an international news media
organisation works. The seminar will focus on aspects of digital journalism
including writing and editing for a news website, the relationship between print
and web journalism, live blogging, the use of social media, podcasting and video
production.

2 November, Kings Place, London

Find us on the Guardian website

EducationGuardian.co.uk

All today's EducationGuardian stories

Follow us on Twitter and Facebook

EducationGuardian on Twitter

Judy Friedberg on Twitter

Jeevan Vasagar on Twitter

Jessica Shepherd on Twitter

Alice Woolley on Twitter

Claire Phipps on Twitter

Guardian Teacher Network on Twitter

Guardian Education Centre on Twitter

EducationGuardian on Facebook

EducationGuardian resources

The Guardian University Guide 2011

The Guardian Postgraduate Guide 2011

School league tables

The world's top 100 universities

Updating table of university fee announcements for 2012

From Guardian Professional

The Higher Education Network for university professionals

Free online classroom resources on the Teacher Network

Job vacancies in education

More about Cribsheet

Sign up to get Cribsheet as a daily email

To advertise in the Cribsheet email, contact Sunita Gordon on 0203 353 2447 or
email sunita.gordon@guardian.co.uk

Subscribe to get Cribsheet as an RSS feed

Interested in social policy too? Sign up for Society Daily

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              931 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            July 31, 1991, Wednesday

Changes in store for female physicians

SECTION: BUSINESS; SECTION C; PAGE 02

LENGTH: 198 words


During this decade, female physicians may find their professional lives altered
in several ways. According to a report just released by the accounting firm
Arthur Andersen and the American College of Healthcare Executives:

More women will enter medicine.

More women will staff managed health-care plans, and more will be employed by
hospitals.

They also will begin to go for leadership and management jobs in medicine.

While women doctors choosing specialties such as dermatology, psychiatry or
emergency medicine is nothing new, choosing hospital-based practices rather than
small-office ones is expected to become a trend. If it does, there'll be more
female radiologists, pathologists and anesthesiologists.

The reason, study authors speculate, is that these are the kinds of specialties
that allow more flexible hours and are limited to inpatients.

The more "difficult" subspecialties, such as neurosurgery and cardiac surgery,
become problematic when women decide to have families.

However, the highest fence still seems to be medical-administration positions,
which, though generating high interest among female physicians, tend to be
dominated by males.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 The Atlanta Constitution

                              932 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  thestar.com

                            April 2, 2014 Wednesday

Campaign reveals lists of procedures, treatments doctors should avoid

SECTION: LIFE | TORONTO STAR; Pg.

LENGTH: 411 words


No more automatic annual blood tests; no more automatic imaging for lower-back
pain; and no more pap tests for women under 21 and over 69.;Canadian doctors are
being asked to cut back on these and 37 other tests, procedures and treatments
as part of a national campaign aimed at rooting out unnecessary
interventions.;The
http://www.choosingwiselycanada.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/04/2-CWC-Press-Relea
se-FINAL. pdf">Choosing Wisely Canada; campaign kicked off in Ottawa on
Wednesday morning with the release of
http://www.choosingwiselycanada.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/EN-Collection.
pdf">lists; from nine national medical organization and specialty groups of
interventions that doctors and their patients are being urged to think twice
about.;Unnecessary imaging could needlessly expose patients to radiation.

Unnecessary procedures could lead to further interventions that can be invasive
and possible cause patient?s side effects. As well, these tests and procedures
take time and drain resources.;The campaign is aimed at starting a dialogue
between doctors and their patients and ultimately changing the ?more is always
better? culture.;?It?s time for physicians and patients to have some frank and
healthy conversations about the overuse of tests, treatments and procedures,?
said
http://www.thestar.com/life/health_wellness/2014/02/19/doctors_to_cut_down_on_un
necessary_tests.html">Dr. Wendy Levinson;, founder of Choosing Wisely Canada and
chair of the department of medicine at the University of Toronto.;The College of
Family Physicians of Canada offered up a list of five unnecessary interventions
that includes annual automatic blood tests. The advice is not to do routine
blood tests in asymptomatic patients.;?This practice is more likely to produce
false positive results that may lead to additional unnecessary testing,? reasons
the college.;It also advises against x-rays, CT scans and MRIs for lower back
pain unless red flags are present, for example severe or neurological
deficits.;Canada?s Choosing Wisely campaign is modelled after an American one of
the same name.;?As in every field of medicine there are certain medial tests
treatments and procedures in specialty fields that physicians and patients
should question,? said Dr. Chris Simpson, president elect of the Canadian
Medical Association, which is a lead partner in the campaign.;

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2014 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited

                              933 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 9, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Woman may leadHarvard aftersexism controversy

BYLINE: David Usborne in New York

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 575 words


An unusual degree of political intrigue is coursing through Harvard University.
Eleven months after its last president, Lawrence Summers, resigned under a cloud
of controversy, the highly secretive process of choosing a successor is almost
complete.

However, there is another reason that the speculation over who might take the
helm of one of America's most prestigious places of learning is unusually
intense this time - it seems increasingly likely that that person might turn out
to be a woman.

Candidates on a shortlist now before Harvard's presidential search committee are
believed to include at least three women presidents at other Ivy League
universities: Shirley Tilghman of Princeton, Ruth Simmons of Brown and Amy
Gutmann of the University of Pennsylvania. Also being mentioned is Alison
Richard, presently vice-chancellor of the University of Cambridge.

In its 371-year history, Harvard has never chosen a woman as its president. But
at play here is not just criticism that Harvard still harbours an outdated old
boys' club mentality. Making the prospect of a female president even more
arresting is the legacy left behind by Mr Summers.

The downfall of Mr Summers, a former treasury secretary in the Clinton White
House, was in large part spurred by comments he made in 2005 about the dearth of
women in the upper echelons of science and mathematics in academia. His
suggestion at the time that this may be due to an aptitude gap between the
genders sparked a storm of protest among faculty members from which he never
recovered.

Given that history, choosing a woman now to lead the entire institution would,
some people say, have an almost poetic quality.

Admittedly, the gossip might be galloping ahead of itself. The workings of the
search committee are confidential and only its nine members know which way they
are leaning. In December, it shared a shortlist of several dozen candidates with
the university's board of overseers; a good many were men.

Other factors aside from gender are clearly informing the process. Observers say
that the committee may be focusing more on finding a person with a deep grasp of
the university, which would suggest choosing someone from the inside. "If I had
to guess, I would say it would be somebody with intimate Harvard connections,
perhaps an internal person," Jack Maguire, a former dean of admissions at Boston
College and now a consultant to several universities, told The New York Times.
But he added: "I wouldn't be surprised if the new president is a woman. It's
just time. There are lots of good women around."

It is also possible that they are looking first for someone with a scientific
background to boost Harvard's credentials in that area. Selecting a female
scientist would be especially satisfying to some, given Mr Summers' unfortunate
remarks. Others at Harvard, meanwhile, fret that if a woman was chosen, she
would suffer from a perception of having been selected merely for gender
reasons. "You can easily imagine that there's a concern that the choice of a
woman who in her own right totally deserves to have this job would be perceived
as a reactive choice against the Summers comment," Andrew Gordon, the chair of
the history department, told The Crimson, Harvard's newspaper.

Meanwhile, all of the women whose names have been floated have gone on the
record as disavowing any interest in switching to Harvard. Not everyone is ready
to take these public statements at face value.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              934 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 13, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Unwrapped - the secret to giving perfect gifts

BYLINE: Tony Allen-Mills

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 740 words


WORRIED about finding the perfect Christmas gift? It has just got easier.
Scientists say choosing something you like is better than trying to work out the
desires of the recipient.

The discovery comes from one of a number of studies by psychologists and other
researchers to answer the eternal questions: what should I get - and will they
like it? People feel a greater sense of closeness after receiving a present that
reflects the "true self" of the giver, according to a paper published in the
Journal of Experimental Social Psychology. The gift is more likely to score a
home run than one chosen to reflect "your knowledge of the recipient". In a
study released in September of 122 university students giving iTunes songs,
those who chose a present that reflected their own taste in music were rewarded
by a greater closeness - even though the task was easier.

Other scientific insights include the tip that it is a mistake to bundle a small
present with a big one and that women need to be much more careful in choosing
presents for men than men need to be for their female partners.

The intricate relationships between givers and recipients and the messages we
send with our choice of gifts have proved fertile ground for research.

"Does anyone receive a present they actually want to keep?" mused Professor
Adrian Furnham, a University College London psychologist who has long marvelled
at the infinite human capacity for buying the wrong thing.

"There appears to be no relationship between the cost of a gift and the extent
to which it is liked or preferred," he wrote in a paper, The Psychology of
Christmas Gift Giving. "Presents are imbued with meaning," Furnham noted. "They
can be statements of influence, power, taste, sympathy, status and emotion. The
subtlety of the exchange can best be seen when the whole thing goes wrong."

How easy it can be to make a mistake was demonstrated by American researchers
recently in a series of experiments testing the reactions of recipients who were
given a generous main gift with a cheap extra attached - such as a £200 coffee
maker with a £5 cafe gift card, or an expensive Le Creuset casserole with a
wooden spoon. A study published in the Journal of Consumer Research found that
the recipients of "bundled" gifts subconsciously "average the values of the
individual components when forming an impression of the bundle overall". The
cheap gift ends up devaluing the more expensive one.

Other research has looked at the thorny question of male and female partners
giving each other gifts and the effects on romantic relationships of mismatched
expectations. A paper in the Social Cognition journal found that women were far
more tolerant of poorly chosen gifts. Men became pessimistic about the
relationship's future after receiving a disappointing present, as it made them
feel that they and their partner had little in common.

There are also risks for men, however. "Young, unattached men often view giving
gifts as 'fiscal foreplay'," said Furnham. He warned that "too expensive a gift
too early in the relationship can feel like a sexual bribe while small, cheap
gifts well into the relationship can be seen as the sign of a cheapskate."

Psychologists also underline the perils of "joke" or "hint" gifts that may cause
offence (such as deodorants or acne cream); and of pigeon-holing people's
tastes. "Grannies no longer desire bath salts and violet creams and have iPods
and smartphones on their wish lists instead," said Furnham.

Getting it right takes effort, he adds: "The better people know each other, the
more special and subtle they can be. But a gift still must be carefully and
thoughtfully chosen."

Dear Santa, all I want is a husband who knows what present to buy me, News
Review, page 3 Five rules of giving 1 Choose a gift that reflects 'your true
self' Givers and receivers feel closer if the present reflects the giver 2
Don''t add a little extra when giving an expensive gift The small extra gift
devalues the appreciation of the big one 3 Romantic partners should choose gifts
that show the couple''s similarity A man disappointed at Christmas will see a
shorter future for the couple. Women are more tolerant 4 Don''t spend too much
too early in the relationship , don''t spend too little later Too much too soon
feels like a bribe. Too little later is mean 5 Presents that give a hint can
give offence Nobody wants deodorant for Christmas. And modern grannies prefer
iPads

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JOSE LUIS PELAEZ

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              935 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Scunthorpe Telegraph

                           September 3, 2015 Thursday

750 apprentices at North Lindsey

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 571  words


NORTH Lindsey College is celebrating its "gateway to employment", which has seen
its students gain work after their studies.

A significant number of local employers use the Scunthorpe college, on Kingsway,
to source employees and apprentices from its student cohort.

Deputy principal Mick Lochran said: "An increasing  number of students start at
the college on a full-time programme before transferring to a part-time course
or apprenticeship to complete their studies."

The popularity of this route with both employers and young people means that the
college now has more than 750 apprentices in areas including accounting,
business, childcare, software and web development, hair, beauty, sport, motor
vehicle, construction and engineering.

Daniel Till studied a Level 3 Diploma in engineering, achieved a triple
distinction and has now progressed into higher education at the University
Centre.

He said: "My career goal is to become a fully-qualified design engineer.

"I decided to continue and study a HNC in Engineering at the University Centre
as it felt like the next step for me.

"I have also been employed at ESM Power full-time, gaining experience.

"After I left school, I chose engineering as it was something I was interested
in and I really enjoy it."

George Mason joined the college and began studying an entry three certificate as
an introduction to construction and plumbing.

He then completed a level one certificate in plumbing and a level two diploma in
plumbing, alongside an A Level in business.

George is now in his first year of an apprenticeship at Gas and Care.

He said: "I first found out about the apprenticeship courses through the
college.

"I had been at the college two years previous, so I had already built up skills
to a certain extent.

"I got approached by the development team at North Lindsey College, saying that
there was a vacancy at Gas and Care, which is now my employer.

"Basically, I took in a CV to the boss at Gas and Care.

"A couple of weeks later, I got a letter giving me a two week trial and I've
been there ever since.

"Really, it's the college's help that got me my apprenticeship."

The college works with hundreds of employers and has developed:

Major apprenticeship schemes with Tata Steel for engineering and technical
apprenticeships

A CAD Academy with the Bradbury Group

A construction apprenticeship partnership

A HGV mechanics academy

Progression routes into nursing, engineering and administration with North
Lincolnshire and Goole NHS Foundation Trust

An apprenticeship academy with Just Car Clinic

In addition to students progressing straight into employment, the college also
has more than 1,000 students choosing to study in Scunthorpe at its university
centre on Foundation Degrees, BA (Hons) and Higher Nationals.

Subjects offered include social sciences, sport, business, management,
education, bioscience and engineering.

Principal Anne Tyrrell said: "While many of our students are successful in
gaining places at universities such as Leeds, Manchester, Hull, Lincoln,
Loughborough and Sheffield, an increasing number are choosing to save on fees
and accommodation costs by studying locally at our university centre."

Mr Lochran said that "by developing its 'gateway to employment', North Lindsey
College is providing fantastic opportunities for young people to have the best
of both worlds and learn while they   earn".

For more information, call Hannah Moss on 01724 294166.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: passed: North Lindsey College principal Anne Tyrell and student Daniel
Till

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              936 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                            March 16, 2016 Wednesday
                               Telegraph3 Edition

BAD MEDICINE BAN

BYLINE: Sue DunlevyNational Health Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 727  words


New rules will change everything you think you know about care

KIDS with ear infections will be refused antibiotics and parents will be urged
to stop using paracetamol or ibuprofen to reduce a fever under a crackdown on
unnecessary medical treatment.

Doctors have reviewed the medical evidence behind 61 of the most commonly sought
medical treatments, and the results will change everything parents thought they
knew about curing common ailments.

Fourteen prestigious medical colleges have nominated areas of waste as part of
the NPS Choosing Wisely campaign. They want to rein in health costs and improve
medical practice.

In a decision that will be confronting for parents whose children are screaming
with pain from an ear infection, they recommend against routine use of
antibiotics for children aged 2-12.

"Regardless of whether one or both eardrums are red or bulging, antibiotics do
not reduce pain at 24 hours," the Royal Australian College of General
Practitioners said.

Instead, parents should use paracetamol or ibuprofen to control the pain. Royal
Australian College General Practitioners head Dr Frank Jones said antibiotics
should only be given if the child had a fever, was vomiting or lethargic.

Parents are also likely to baulk at a recommendation by the Australian College
of Nursing not to give kids paracetamol or ibuprofen to bring down their
temperature.

"The benefits of fever in slowing the growth and replication of bacteria and
viruses are well documented," the ACN said.

Medicine should only be used to reduce fever if the child is uncomfortable or
distressed.

The Choosing Wisely campaign also calls for the practice of prescribing
antibiotics to infants with a fever to stop because it is not only "low value"
but "can be dangerous" by "delaying presentation to hospital by inappropriately
reassuring patients".

The medics said one-in-14 kids suffered side effects from antibiotics and their
overuse was fuelling the rise of antibiotic resistant infections.

Medical colleges are also calling for a stop to X-rays of most foot and ankle
injuries.

The review found routine CT scans for some cancers and appendicitis can be
dangerous by delivering unnecessary radiation.

And they warned some people could die from the complications of routine
colonoscopies, faecal testing for bowel cancer is less costly and safer. The
review found 13 per cent of those 50-75 years of age were over-screened using a
colonoscopy, which costs $3000 per procedure.

Doctors are also being told to stop prescribing antibiotics for upper
respiratory infections and to refuse chest X-rays for uncomplicated bronchitis
cases.

Chest X-rays are the imaging tests most frequently ordered by Australian GPs,
even though they do not affect outcomes in adults or children and may lead to
false positives, further investigations and unnecessary exposure to radiation.

The campaign also called on doctors to think twice about ordering thyroid
ultrasounds, ultrasounds for groin hernias, endoscopies for gastric band
patients and imaging for non-specific low back pain.

It said doctors should also not order multiple blood tests for people suffering
from fatigue.

Antibiotics should not be used for more than seven days without review and
anti-inflammatory drugs like ibuprofen should not be used by the elderly for
more than two weeks, the review said.

Dr Jones, who has more than 30 years experience as a general practitioner, said
he hoped the list of unnecessary tests and procedures would help start a better
conversation between patients and their doctors, even if it first seemed a bit
of a shock for some parents.

"I think it will change the perception of what patients require from their
doctor," he said.

The federal government has set up is own review of all 5700 items on the
Medicare Benefits Schedule. In eight months it has only identified 23 mostly
obsolete items that should be removed from the Medicare benefits schedule.

This measure would save the federal government just $7 million from its nearly
$30 billion Medicare spend.

Australian Medical Association president Professor Brian Owler said the Choosing
Wisely campaign acknowledged the role of doctors as the stewards of the health
system."We've looked at the evidence and come up with recommendations that
certain practices are not providing the best value," Dr Owler, a leading
neurosurgeon, told The Daily Telegraph.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Telegraph


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              937 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                            March 16, 2016 Wednesday
                               Telegraph Edition

BAD MEDICINE BAN

BYLINE: Sue DunlevyNational Health Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 727  words


New rules will change everything you think you know about care

KIDS with ear infections will be refused antibiotics and parents will be urged
to stop using paracetamol or ibuprofen to reduce a fever under a crackdown on
unnecessary medical treatment.

Doctors have reviewed the medical evidence behind 61 of the most commonly sought
medical treatments, and the results will change everything parents thought they
knew about curing common ailments.

Fourteen prestigious medical colleges have nominated areas of waste as part of
the NPS Choosing Wisely campaign. They want to rein in health costs and improve
medical practice.

In a decision that will be confronting for parents whose children are screaming
with pain from an ear infection, they recommend against routine use of
antibiotics for children aged 2-12.

"Regardless of whether one or both eardrums are red or bulging, antibiotics do
not reduce pain at 24 hours," the Royal Australian College of General
Practitioners said.

Instead, parents should use paracetamol or ibuprofen to control the pain. Royal
Australian College General Practitioners head Dr Frank Jones said antibiotics
should only be given if the child had a fever, was vomiting or lethargic.

Parents are also likely to baulk at a recommendation by the Australian College
of Nursing not to give kids paracetamol or ibuprofen to bring down their
temperature.

"The benefits of fever in slowing the growth and replication of bacteria and
viruses are well documented," the ACN said.

Medicine should only be used to reduce fever if the child is uncomfortable or
distressed.

The Choosing Wisely campaign also calls for the practice of prescribing
antibiotics to infants with a fever to stop because it is not only "low value"
but "can be dangerous" by "delaying presentation to hospital by inappropriately
reassuring patients".

The medics said one-in-14 kids suffered side effects from antibiotics and their
overuse was fuelling the rise of antibiotic resistant infections.

Medical colleges are also calling for a stop to X-rays of most foot and ankle
injuries.

The review found routine CT scans for some cancers and appendicitis can be
dangerous by delivering unnecessary radiation.

And they warned some people could die from the complications of routine
colonoscopies, faecal testing for bowel cancer is less costly and safer. The
review found 13 per cent of those 50-75 years of age were over-screened using a
colonoscopy, which costs $3000 per procedure.

Doctors are also being told to stop prescribing antibiotics for upper
respiratory infections and to refuse chest X-rays for uncomplicated bronchitis
cases.

Chest X-rays are the imaging tests most frequently ordered by Australian GPs,
even though they do not affect outcomes in adults or children and may lead to
false positives, further investigations and unnecessary exposure to radiation.

The campaign also called on doctors to think twice about ordering thyroid
ultrasounds, ultrasounds for groin hernias, endoscopies for gastric band
patients and imaging for non-specific low back pain.

It said doctors should also not order multiple blood tests for people suffering
from fatigue.

Antibiotics should not be used for more than seven days without review and
anti-inflammatory drugs like ibuprofen should not be used by the elderly for
more than two weeks, the review said.

Dr Jones, who has more than 30 years experience as a general practitioner, said
he hoped the list of unnecessary tests and procedures would help start a better
conversation between patients and their doctors, even if it first seemed a bit
of a shock for some parents.

"I think it will change the perception of what patients require from their
doctor," he said.

The federal government has set up is own review of all 5700 items on the
Medicare Benefits Schedule. In eight months it has only identified 23 mostly
obsolete items that should be removed from the Medicare benefits schedule.

This measure would save the federal government just $7 million from its nearly
$30 billion Medicare spend.

Australian Medical Association president Professor Brian Owler said the Choosing
Wisely campaign acknowledged the role of doctors as the stewards of the health
system."We've looked at the evidence and come up with recommendations that
certain practices are not providing the best value," Dr Owler, a leading
neurosurgeon, told The Daily Telegraph.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Telegraph


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              938 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                           September 20, 2015 Sunday

College more valuable than simple, straight path

BYLINE: Sister Joanne Burrows President, Clarke University

SECTION: A; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 644 words


Current debates about what a college education should be, and be for, bring to
mind the theorem: "The shortest distance between two points is a straight line."
That works until you leave a two-dimensional surface. It is an illusion that we
walk or drive in a straight line. Our world is curved and the shortest distance
between two points is a curved line or orthodrome.

When you add the dimension of time to a three-dimensional universe, you get
wormholes and other marvels.

My point? It is an illusion that a liberal arts college education progresses in
a straight line. Teaching and learning happen in a curved universe that spans a
lifetime. In the last month, thousands of young people began their freshman
year, and the one thing I know for certain is that not one will follow a
straight line to commencement. College and life will present curves and maybe a
wormhole or two and, rather than distracting from their educations, these
experiences can make them more impactful for life and career.

One assumption of straight-line thinking is that students enter college knowing
what they want to study and are knowledgeable about their fields. Not true. The
National Center for Educational Statistics reports that about 80 percent of
college students change their major at least once before graduating.

Students often feel pressured to "decide." Socially, it is an easy identifier
and provides access to peers. Early deciders are perceived as more successful,
although research does not support the perception. Much is written about the
economic advantages of particular majors. Parents push one major or another for
any number of reasons. Faculty members exert influence to join their major.

Here's a secret: Your major, while important, does not determine life or career.
Case in point: I began college as a zoology major and graduated with a degree in
graphic design. I went on to earn an M.A. in systematic theology and Ph.D. in
higher education. Was my major a waste? Absolutely not. I apply design thinking
to challenges in the workplace every day but, more important, my college
education prepared me with the purpose and competence necessary to pursue
divergent fields of study as life and career opportunities required.

College prepared me for a life I could not imagine at 18. I am not alone. Within
the ranks of Clarke alums, there are art and drama majors who are now physicians
and veterinarians, and chemistry majors overseeing performing arts centers.
Globally, a recent British Council study reports that over half the business and
organization leaders surveyed in 30 countries earned undergraduate degrees in
the traditional arts and sciences.

Choosing a major is an important decision but not one that must be made from the
start. As a general rule, students declare majors in sophomore year. That said,
younger students with their families should begin exploring interests and
strengths as early as middle school. Learn about different fields and roles by
reading, shadowing and talking to people about their work, what they like and
how they prepared. Encourage students not to avoid academic subjects that they
may need later. Opting out of the next level of math or science in middle school
will narrow major options significantly. Early exploration will make choosing a
major in college easier.

They say half of jobs today will be significantly altered or disappear by 2025.
Who knows what majors will be in demand then, but I am confident employers will
be looking for purposeful and competent individuals who can problem-solve, work
in teams, communicate effectively and think critically. In other words, the
outcomes of a liberal arts college education.

Burrows became the 15th president of Clarke in July 2006. Prior to joining
Clarke, she served as the chief academic officer at Saint Mary-of-the-Woods
College in Saint Mary of the Woods, Ind.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              939 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 3, 2013 Thursday

Georgia: Student activism takes a different sort of dedication

LENGTH: 211  words

DATELINE: Atlanta


Georgia Partnership For Excellence In Education, The State of Georgia has issued
the following news release:

For many high school students, choosing a college is like choosing a soulmate:
They are encouraged to pick the school that matches their interests and
personality.

And colleges do an excellent job selling themselves as bastions of learning,
fairness and social progress, which, within reason, they are.

Before entering Harvard University, my opinion of the world of higher education
was so high that I had never imagined challenging my school's policies. I
suspect that many young people share that view, and too many talented students
interested in social change allow their schools' unjust practices to go
unchallenged as a result.

That, at least, was my perception of my school when I entered college. It was
only by chance that I decided to participate in a freshman pre-orientation
program for students interested in social justice, where I met upperclassmen who
had been unafraid to challenge university policy.

I realized that Harvard, like virtually every one of our social institutions,
affirms the same injustices that exist at all levels of our culture. Unless
students do something about it.

For further information please visit: http://www.gpee.org/

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              940 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 13, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Patients being given medical tests and drugs they don't need

BYLINE: Laura Donnelly

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 501 words


NHS patients in England are being given drugs and tests they may not need
because GPs and hospitals are paid for the quantity not quality of their
treatment, senior doctors warn today.

The Academy of Medical Royal Colleges says patients should be encouraged to ask
if their medical procedures are really necessary, in an attempt to halt
over-diagnosis and needless treatment of a large section of the population.

In an unprecedented intervention, the doctors, who represent all 21 medical
royal colleges, say too many patients are being forced to endure procedures
which could do more harm than good.

They say the payments system in the NHS, which means hospitals are paid
according to the number of procedures they perform, and GP pay linked to
diagnosis and treatment, could act against patients' interests.

It is time to "wind back the harms of too much medicine", they say, and replace
a culture of "more is better" with balanced decision-making. Patients should be
encouraged to ask questions such as, "Do I really need this test or procedure?
What are the risks? What happens if I do nothing?" the doctors say.

Writing in the British Medical Journal, Dr Aseem Malhotra, a cardiologist; Prof
Terence Stephenson, chairman of the General Medical Council; and Prof Sir Muir
Gray, from Oxford University, said doctors needed to be more honest with
patients about the potential harms of treatment. "The system has no incentive to
restrict doctors' activity; the NHS in England has a system of payment by
results, which in reality is too often a payment for activity and encourages
providers to do more in primary and secondary care," the doctors write. They
said family doctors were "increasingly pressured to focus less on open dialogue
with patients and treatment options and more on fulfilling the demands of the
Quality and Outcome Framework", a system which pays GPs for performance.

Under the scheme, GP pay is linked to prescription of certain drugs, such as
statins to protect against heart disease, participation in checks for conditions
such as diabetes, and screening programmes against cancer. Hospitals are paid
for the number of patients they treat, with a tariff for each operation and
test.

The doctors' intervention comes as a leading scientist said that millions of
people should stop taking antidepressants because their long-term risks
outweighed the benefits.

Prof Peter Gotzsche, director of a Danish research centre, said drugs given to
patients with depression, attention deficit disorder and dementia were
responsible for the deaths of more than half a million pensioners each year in
the Western world.

The Royal Colleges are to start a campaign called Choosing Wisely, which calls
on each medical speciality to list practices which should stop because they do
more harm than good. Prof Dame Sue Bailey, chairman of the Academy of Medical
Royal Colleges, said the point of Choosing Wisely "is to encourage doctors to
have conversations with their patients and about the value of a treatment".

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              941 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 13, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Patients being given medical tests and drugs they don't need

BYLINE: Laura Donnelly

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 501 words


NHS patients in England are being given drugs and tests they may not need
because GPs and hospitals are paid for the quantity not quality of their
treatment, senior doctors warn today.

The Academy of Medical Royal Colleges says patients should be encouraged to ask
if their medical procedures are really necessary, in an attempt to halt
over-diagnosis and needless treatment of a large section of the population.

In an unprecedented intervention, the doctors, who represent all 21 medical
royal colleges, say too many patients are being forced to endure procedures
which could do more harm than good.

They say the payments system in the NHS, which means hospitals are paid
according to the number of procedures they perform, and GP pay linked to
diagnosis and treatment, could act against patients' interests.

It is time to "wind back the harms of too much medicine", they say, and replace
a culture of "more is better" with balanced decision-making. Patients should be
encouraged to ask questions such as, "Do I really need this test or procedure?
What are the risks? What happens if I do nothing?" the doctors say.

Writing in the British Medical Journal, Dr Aseem Malhotra, a cardiologist; Prof
Terence Stephenson, chairman of the General Medical Council; and Prof Sir Muir
Gray, from Oxford University, said doctors needed to be more honest with
patients about the potential harms of treatment. "The system has no incentive to
restrict doctors' activity; the NHS in England has a system of payment by
results, which in reality is too often a payment for activity and encourages
providers to do more in primary and secondary care," the doctors write. They
said family doctors were "increasingly pressured to focus less on open dialogue
with patients and treatment options and more on fulfilling the demands of the
Quality and Outcome Framework", a system which pays GPs for performance.

Under the scheme, GP pay is linked to prescription of certain drugs, such as
statins to protect against heart disease, participation in checks for conditions
such as diabetes, and screening programmes against cancer. Hospitals are paid
for the number of patients they treat, with a tariff for each operation and
test.

The doctors' intervention comes as a leading scientist said that millions of
people should stop taking antidepressants because their long-term risks
outweighed the benefits.

Prof Peter Gotzsche, director of a Danish research centre, said drugs given to
patients with depression, attention deficit disorder and dementia were
responsible for the deaths of more than half a million pensioners each year in
the Western world.

The Royal Colleges are to start a campaign called Choosing Wisely, which calls
on each medical speciality to list practices which should stop because they do
more harm than good. Prof Dame Sue Bailey, chairman of the Academy of Medical
Royal Colleges, said the point of Choosing Wisely "is to encourage doctors to
have conversations with their patients and about the value of a treatment".

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              942 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 13, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Patients being given medical tests and drugs they don't need

BYLINE: Laura Donnelly

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 501 words


NHS patients in England are being given drugs and tests they may not need
because GPs and hospitals are paid for the quantity not quality of their
treatment, senior doctors warn today.

The Academy of Medical Royal Colleges says patients should be encouraged to ask
if their medical procedures are really necessary, in an attempt to halt
over-diagnosis and needless treatment of a large section of the population.

In an unprecedented intervention, the doctors, who represent all 21 medical
royal colleges, say too many patients are being forced to endure procedures
which could do more harm than good.

They say the payments system in the NHS, which means hospitals are paid
according to the number of procedures they perform, and GP pay linked to
diagnosis and treatment, could act against patients' interests.

It is time to "wind back the harms of too much medicine", they say, and replace
a culture of "more is better" with balanced decision-making. Patients should be
encouraged to ask questions such as, "Do I really need this test or procedure?
What are the risks? What happens if I do nothing?" the doctors say.

Writing in the British Medical Journal, Dr Aseem Malhotra, a cardiologist; Prof
Terence Stephenson, chairman of the General Medical Council; and Prof Sir Muir
Gray, from Oxford University, said doctors needed to be more honest with
patients about the potential harms of treatment. "The system has no incentive to
restrict doctors' activity; the NHS in England has a system of payment by
results, which in reality is too often a payment for activity and encourages
providers to do more in primary and secondary care," the doctors write. They
said family doctors were "increasingly pressured to focus less on open dialogue
with patients and treatment options and more on fulfilling the demands of the
Quality and Outcome Framework", a system which pays GPs for performance.

Under the scheme, GP pay is linked to prescription of certain drugs, such as
statins to protect against heart disease, participation in checks for conditions
such as diabetes, and screening programmes against cancer. Hospitals are paid
for the number of patients they treat, with a tariff for each operation and
test.

The doctors' intervention comes as a leading scientist said that millions of
people should stop taking antidepressants because their long-term risks
outweighed the benefits.

Prof Peter Gotzsche, director of a Danish research centre, said drugs given to
patients with depression, attention deficit disorder and dementia were
responsible for the deaths of more than half a million pensioners each year in
the Western world.

The Royal Colleges are to start a campaign called Choosing Wisely, which calls
on each medical speciality to list practices which should stop because they do
more harm than good. Prof Dame Sue Bailey, chairman of the Academy of Medical
Royal Colleges, said the point of Choosing Wisely "is to encourage doctors to
have conversations with their patients and about the value of a treatment".

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              943 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 13, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Patients being given medical tests and drugs they don't need

BYLINE: Laura Donnelly

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 501 words


NHS patients in England are being given drugs and tests they may not need
because GPs and hospitals are paid for the quantity not quality of their
treatment, senior doctors warn today.

The Academy of Medical Royal Colleges says patients should be encouraged to ask
if their medical procedures are really necessary, in an attempt to halt
over-diagnosis and needless treatment of a large section of the population.

In an unprecedented intervention, the doctors, who represent all 21 medical
royal colleges, say too many patients are being forced to endure procedures
which could do more harm than good.

They say the payments system in the NHS, which means hospitals are paid
according to the number of procedures they perform, and GP pay linked to
diagnosis and treatment, could act against patients' interests.

It is time to "wind back the harms of too much medicine", they say, and replace
a culture of "more is better" with balanced decision-making. Patients should be
encouraged to ask questions such as, "Do I really need this test or procedure?
What are the risks? What happens if I do nothing?" the doctors say.

Writing in the British Medical Journal, Dr Aseem Malhotra, a cardiologist; Prof
Terence Stephenson, chairman of the General Medical Council; and Prof Sir Muir
Gray, from Oxford University, said doctors needed to be more honest with
patients about the potential harms of treatment. "The system has no incentive to
restrict doctors' activity; the NHS in England has a system of payment by
results, which in reality is too often a payment for activity and encourages
providers to do more in primary and secondary care," the doctors write. They
said family doctors were "increasingly pressured to focus less on open dialogue
with patients and treatment options and more on fulfilling the demands of the
Quality and Outcome Framework", a system which pays GPs for performance.

Under the scheme, GP pay is linked to prescription of certain drugs, such as
statins to protect against heart disease, participation in checks for conditions
such as diabetes, and screening programmes against cancer. Hospitals are paid
for the number of patients they treat, with a tariff for each operation and
test.

The doctors' intervention comes as a leading scientist said that millions of
people should stop taking antidepressants because their long-term risks
outweighed the benefits.

Prof Peter Gotzsche, director of a Danish research centre, said drugs given to
patients with depression, attention deficit disorder and dementia were
responsible for the deaths of more than half a million pensioners each year in
the Western world.

The Royal Colleges are to start a campaign called Choosing Wisely, which calls
on each medical speciality to list practices which should stop because they do
more harm than good. Prof Dame Sue Bailey, chairman of the Academy of Medical
Royal Colleges, said the point of Choosing Wisely "is to encourage doctors to
have conversations with their patients and about the value of a treatment".

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              944 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                           October 10, 2012 Wednesday

A broad guideline on studying abroad

LENGTH: 311 words

DATELINE: CHENNAI


CHENNAI, Oct. 10 -- Many Indian students would love to go abroad to study but
the biggest problem is they don't know where to go and what to do. Hamsini Ravi,
a student who has been admitted into the University of Sussex, said that with a
little bit of research it was not all that tough.

The first and foremost step is to know what you want to do.

"Knowing what you want to do is primary. If you know that it is easy to
proceed," said Hamsini.

She said speaking to people, alumni of the university, and sometimes even
writing to professors about the programme is helpful. "For instance, one can
write to professors about the research they are doing to see if you are
interested in the same programmes," said Hamsini.

She advised students not to take rankings too seriously. "Rankings are important
but focusing on the framework of the course is more important than anything
else," she said. She got into London School of Economics, one of the premier
universities, but rejected it since she felt the course was too academic.

In terms of the country, she says there are many options but choosing a country
that has the best course work is what matters. "For instance I got into schools
both in the US and the UK for developmental studies but I picked the UK because
it had the best research work," she explained.

With the recession, scholarships have been cut and choosing the right course at
the right college is very important. Hamsini advises students to give weightage
to SOP (Statement of Purpose) and relevant research or work experience.

Hamsini, who has a master's degree in mass communication, said, "Research
thoroughly before as jobs abroad are not easy to find!" Published by HT
Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              945 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 3, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cut some slack to those who decommit

BYLINE:  By Adam Lichtenstein   Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 560 words


I was verbally committed to Florida State for a long time in high school. Then
some new information came to my attention and I flipped to Florida.

No one questioned my trustworthiness or mental stability. No one claimed I was
seeking attention. No adults twice my age sent me angry tweets.

Granted, I decided to take my talents to Gainesville because I learned the
meteorology program at FSU required multiple advanced math classes and I'm worse
at math than I am at football. But I was one of an uncountable number of high
school seniors who wavered on where I planned to attend college.

The ones who waffle and also happen to be good at football get too much flack as
they try to make their decision. As another national signing day comes with all
its pomp and circumstance, it's important to remember that behind the hat
picking, press conferences and live TV coverage are a bunch of 17- or
18-year-olds making one of the most important decisions of their lives.

A "normal" high school senior has a bunch of things to consider when choosing a
college: academics, the campus and everything else that makes college appealing.
Add in all the different factors that come with playing major college football
and that decision becomes laughably harder. Can you fault a player for thinking
he has his mind made up and then reconsidering? I know I can't.

Some people feel the need to come after high schoolers simply for changing their
mind, for some reason. I suppose some see how recruits soak up positive
attention on social media and think that gives them license to verbally unleash
on them should they decide to wear a different uniform.

When former Dwyer wide receiver Isaiah Johnson decommitted from Miami, he
received a barrage of tweets directed at him, mocking him for his decision.

"I'm not really grown and I don't make good decisions all the time, but I'm
trying to make good decisions for myself," Johnson told the Post. "It surprises
me how a grown man can say stuff like that to a kid."

Luckily, there has been a growing backlash toward people who tweet at recruits
and think their 140 characters will make them regret choosing another school.

Meanwhile, as players are attacked on social media for their decisions, coaches
still hold all the power when it comes to recruiting, especially in the public
eye. High schoolers are harped on for flipping schools or being uncommittal
while coaches can extend and pull offers at will, often without public
knowledge. A coach can offer 150 players scholarships and then accept only 25
come signing day.

Of course, that's all part of the job. Coaches need to offer more scholarships
because naturally some players will choose other schools. But why don't we hold
coaches -- grown men -- to something resembling the same standard we hold these
high schoolers?

The recruiting process is dirty as it is, and coaches treating scholarships like
professional GMs treat contract offers makes it dirtier. Erik Swenson, an
offensive lineman who committed to Michigan as a sophomore, had his scholarship
pulled by Wolverines coach Jim Harbaugh. Swenson told the Washington Post he
felt "used" by the new Michigan coach.

Harbaugh did take some well-deserved heat for his recruiting tactics, but that
likely will be forgotten by all but the most engrossed recruitniks after signing
day. Maybe it shouldn't be.

alichtenstein@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              946 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education

                             August 10, 2009 Monday

BYLINE: By Austin Wright

SECTION: GOVERNMENT; Administration

LENGTH: 1470  words

ABSTRACT

Some institutions hoping to boost enrollments of big payers-out-of-state
freshmen often pay twice as much as locals-are likely to be disappointed.

FULL TEXT

Students like Matthew Paauw may have administrators at some public colleges on
edge.

The 18-year-old from North Bend, Wash., applied to seven colleges, including
private ones and public campuses out of state. But Mr. Paauw has chosen to
attend Washington State University, a public institution about half as expensive
as any of his other choices.

"My dad has been saving for quite a few years for my college and had much of it
in stocks," he says. "When the stocks turned, he lost a bit of money, which
definitely played into my decision."

Some cash-strapped public colleges this year hope to raise the percentage of
out-of-state students in their freshman classes. Those students often pay twice
as much as their in-state counterparts. But, like Mr. Paauw, many high-school
graduates are staying in state during the economic downturn and reaping the
benefits of a low-cost, publicly subsidized college education.

Few colleges have released fall-enrollment data yet, but administrators and
high-school guidance counselors are already predicting that public colleges are
likely to see a decline this year in the ratio of out-of-state to in-state
students. Even a slight decline can translate to million-dollar revenue losses.

"I do think that, anecdotally speaking, one can assume that out-of-state
enrollment will be impacted" by the economic downturn, says Daniel J. Hurley,
director of state relations and policy analysis at the American Association of
State Colleges and Universities. It will be a few months before widespread data
will be available to measure changes in out-of-state enrollments, he says, but
"there's a lot of info showing that students are scaling back their expectations
of what their families can afford."

George Mason University, which has increased the proportion of out-of-state
students in its freshman classes over the past five years from about 13 percent
to about 25 percent, is bracing for a decline in that ratio this year.

The number of admitted in-state students choosing to enroll at George Mason is
rising faster than the number of admitted out-of-state students choosing to
enroll, according to Peter N. Stearns, the university's provost. The number of
admitted in-state students choosing to enroll, he says, is up about 7 percent
over last year, while the number of admitted out-of-state students choosing to
enroll is up only about 1 percent.

That trend is problematic for a regionally oriented public university like his,
which counts on higher-paying out-of-state students to help bolster revenues.
The dwindling proportion of out-of-state students hits especially hard when
public colleges like George Mason are grappling with other budget restrictions
in the economic downturn.

At George Mason, the full cost to the university of providing an education to a
single student is about $15,000, says Mr. Stearns. Out-of-state students will
pay $24,008 in tuition and fees this fall. But in-state students will pay
$8,024, a rate well below the actual cost of their education.

And the state support George Mason receives for each full-time student doesn't
make up the gap. For each in-state student who enrolls, the university has to
find more than $2,000 in its own budget to cover the difference between what it
costs to educate the student and what tuition and state money cover, Mr. Stearns
says.

State support as a percentage of public colleges' budgets has dwindled in
Virginia over the past decade. Appropriations to George Mason have declined by
$27-million, or 21 percent of the state portion of its budget, over the last two
years.

Public colleges in the commonwealth that have pushed to raise enrollment of
out-of-state students have faced criticism from Virginia lawmakers and parents
worried that such efforts would prevent their own children from being admitted.
But legislation capping out-of-state enrollment at public colleges has failed to
pass in the state's General Assembly, largely because such a restriction would
cost colleges millions of dollars.

"It's an interesting dilemma," Mr. Stearns says. "We're excited at having more
in-state students, but we do face some harsh economic realities. We'll have to
have larger class sizes, and there will be other cost-cutting measures."

A Shift in Students' Focus

High-school guidance counselors are also reporting an uptick in interest among
their students in attending college in state.

In her nine years at North Shore Hebrew Academy High School helping seniors
choose colleges, Laura J. Miller has never seen so many students opting to apply
to public colleges in New York state. Ms. Miller, director of college guidance
at the school, in Great Neck, says that this year the cost of college came up
again and again as a major concern during counseling sessions with parents.

"Cost is an issue for everybody now because of the recession," she says. "We're
in a very different climate."

This year, she says, students were less eager to apply to New England's elite
private colleges than past classes have been. Instead, more students were asking
about campuses like those of the State University of New York and the City
University of New York's William E. Macaulay Honors College, in-state options
that she didn't talk about as much with her students even just a year earlier.

Last year 55 percent of North Shore's 67 graduating seniors chose private
colleges, and 4 percent chose campuses in the SUNY system. This year 47 percent
of the 85 graduating seniors have chosen to attend private colleges and 12
percent chose SUNY campuses.

Ms. Miller says she spoke this year with an admissions officer at one
out-of-state public college, which she declined to name, who told her that the
college hoped more students from North Shore would apply. The officer, she says,
told her that the college hoped to raise its percentage of out-of-state students
this year in order to make up for lost revenues elsewhere. At North Shore, Ms.
Miller says, several students each year typically choose to attend that college.

The shifts she is seeing in the market for college freshmen, though, could have
a silver lining for some of her seniors: "I actually found that our students
were in a better position to get into a lot of the competitive out-of-state
public schools," she says.

In Florida, public colleges already bursting at the seams could have trouble
dealing with enrollment increases that would come if even more residents choose
to stay in the state for college.

Mandee Heller Adler, a guidance counselor at Donna Klein Jewish Academy, a high
school in Boca Raton, says admissions officers in the state could be in for a
shock this year. Ms. Adler says that she counsels a number of families with
relatively high incomes, and that even among those, "I have very few who do not
have Florida public colleges at the top of their list this year."

"Because of the financial crisis, a lot of middle-class families that might have
taken loans or made the stretch for an out-of-state or private college are now
deciding that the value is just not there," she says. The number of students
deciding to stay in state this year, she adds, "could bankrupt the system."

Different Approaches

Some public colleges, such as the University of Alabama, have said that they are
working to increase their out-of-state student populations this fall. They hope
their efforts to recruit out-of-state students will generate revenue that could
allow them to avoid layoffs or other budget cuts.

Florida State University ramped up its out-of-state recruiting this year, hoping
to increase its percentage of out-of-state freshman from 7 percent last year to
8 percent this year.

Other institutions, though, say they remain committed to keeping the ratio of
out-of-state to in-state students low, despite tight budgets.

The University of California, for example, plans to hold constant its relatively
low percentage of out-of-state students at about 5 percent, even as budget
shortfalls have led the system to raise in-state tuition and cut enrollment.
Lawmakers have attached stipulations to state funds encouraging California's
colleges to admit few out-of-state students.

As for Mr. Paauw, the rising freshman at Washington State, the choice to stay in
state has taken some financial pressure off him and his family.

He says two private colleges offered him generous financial-aid packages to try
to lure him out of state. But his in-state option was still a much better
financial deal.

"My dad wasn't pushing me to go to a public or private; he just told me that the
privates might be a little harder to pay for, and that I might have to take out
some loans," Mr. Paauw says. "The decision I made was a good one."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: For each in-state student, George Mason U. has to find more than $2,000
in its budget to cover the difference between what it costs to educate the
student and what tuition and state money cover, says Provost Peter N. Stearns.
Jay Premack for the Chronicle

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2009 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved

                              947 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                           August 27, 2008 Wednesday

Does college degree make you smart? Apparently not

BYLINE: Walter Williams

LENGTH: 705 words


As parents pack their youngsters off to college, they might ask themselves
whether it's worth both the money they will spend and their children's time. Dr.
Marty Nemko has researched that question in an article aptly titled "America's
Most Overrated Product: Higher Education (www.martynemko.com)."

The U.S. Department of Education statistics show that 76 out of 100 students who
graduate in the bottom 40 percent of their high school class do not graduate
from college, even if they spend 8 1/2 years in college. That's even with
colleges having dumbed down classes to accommodate such students. Only 23
percent of the 1.3 million students who took the ACT college entrance
examinations in 2007 were prepared to do college-level study in math, English
and science. Even though a majority of students are grossly underprepared to do
college-level work, each year colleges admit hundreds of thousands of such
students.

While colleges have strong financial motives to admit unsuccessful students, for
failing students the experience can be devastating. They often leave with their
families, or themselves, having piled up thousands of dollars in debt. There is
possibly trauma and poor self-esteem for having failed, and perhaps
embarrassment for their families. Nemko says that worst of all is that few of
these former college students, having spent thousands of dollars, wind up in a
job that required a college education. It's not uncommon to find them driving a
taxi, working at a restaurant or department store, performing some other job
that they could have had as a high school graduate or dropout.

What about students who are prepared for college? First, only 40 percent of each
year's 2 million freshmen graduate in four years; 45 percent never graduate at
all. Often, having a college degree does not mean much. According to a 2006 Pew
Charitable Trusts study, 50 percent of college seniors failed a test that
required them to interpret a table about exercise and blood pressure, understand
the arguments of newspaper editorials, and compare credit card offers. About 20
percent of college seniors did not have the quantitative skills to estimate if
their car had enough gas to get to the gas station. According to a recent
National Assessment of Adult Literacy, the percentage of college graduates
proficient in prose literacy has declined from 40 percent to 31 percent within
the past decade. Employers report that many college graduates lack the basic
skills of critical thinking, writing and problem-solving.

Colleges are in business. Students are a cost. Research is a profit center. When
colleges boast about having this professor who has won a science award or that
professor who has won the Nobel Prize, very often an undergraduate student will
never be taught by that professor. It is a "bait and switch" tactic, and very
often your youngster will take classes not taught by a professor but taught in
large classes by a graduate student. Faculty who bring in large grants are more
highly valued than faculty who teach well. Teaching excellence is so often
undervalued that the late Ernest Boyer, vice president for Carnegie Foundation
for the Advancement of Teaching, quipped that, "Winning the campus teaching
award is the kiss of death when it comes to tenure."

Parents and taxpayers cough up billions upon billions of dollars to the nation's
colleges and universities. Colleges make money whether students learn or not,
whether they graduate or not, and whether they get a good job after graduating
or not. Colleges and universities engage in "bait and switch," confer fraudulent
degrees and engage in other practices that would bring legal sanctions if done
by any other business. There is little or no oversight of the nation's more than
4,000 colleges and universities that enroll more than 17 million students. There
are some colleges, such as Grove City College and Hillsdale College, that do a
fine job of undergraduate education. Useful information about what colleges are
doing can be found in the Delaware-based Intercollegiate Studies Institute's "
Choosing the Right College" (isi.org/college_guide/choosing_right_college.html).
Walter E. Williams is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

                              948 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Charleston Daily Mail (West Virginia)

                           December 19, 2008, Friday

SCHOLARSHIP WOULD NO LONGER COVER FULL TUITION AND FEES Panel suggests capping
Promise;
Committee rejected mandatory in-state work requirement

BYLINE: RIVARD, DAILY MAIL STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P1A

LENGTH: 1031 words


West Virginia should cap the Promise Scholarship's yearly payout at $4,500 a
student, according to a committee charged with examining the state's college
scholarship for top high school students.

The cap would help the state control costs associated with the program. But it
would also mean the Promise no longer covers full tuition and fees at some state
colleges, including WVU and Marshall. About 9,000 college students currently
receive the scholarship.

The committee also rejected adding any mandatory in-state work requirement, like
the one proposed and then withdrawn earlier this year by Gov. Joe Manchin.

The draft report from the Promise Scholarship Ad-Hoc Advisory Committee
represents a complete review of the 6-year old program.

Jerry Beasley, the former president of Concord University, led the group. He
declined to comment on the specifics of the report, which the committee is set
to present a final draft of in January.

"The important thing is that the people in the pipeline right now are not
affected," said state Senator Ron Stollings, D-Boone, a member of the committee
and chairman of the Senate's higher education subcommittee. "That's the
intention of the work group - that any changes made affect new Promise
Scholarship people."

Stollings also said that the Legislature continues to be passionate about
funding need-based scholarships for students from low-income families as well as
merit-based scholarships like the Promise.

The report found that the greatest impact of requiring students to pay back the
Promise if they left the state after graduation would likely be on lower income
students, including many first generation college students.

"These students and families may be particularly concerned about the possibility
of a financial aid award later becoming a loan," the report says. "This could
result in fewer academically prepared West Virginia students choosing to attend
college or choosing to enroll in less expensive programs because of the concerns
about incurring or increasing student loan obligations."

In deciding to endorse caps to the Promise, the committee weighed a variety of
options to cut costs, including raising requirements, as officials have done
before.

The committee also found that more low-income students would be excluded if
academic requirements were raised again. Research has found that Promise
scholars are increasingly from higher-income families.

"With these consequences in mind, the advisory committee does not believe
standards should continually be raised in order to balance the books at the
expense of West Virginia's most financially needy students," the report said.

Instead, the committee found the best way to control costs is putting the $4,500
cap on the scholarship.

"Although a program that pays for all tuition and fees may appear ideal," to
continue doing so makes it more difficult to control costs and leaves less money
available for need-based aid and campus infrastructure development, the report
said.

If it goes with the cap, the state may be counting on federal dollars to step in
and make up some of the loss. The committee thinks federal education tax credits
will not only help ease the cap's effect on families but "in effect, increase
the amount of federal dollars coming into the state."

Students should also be encouraged - but not required - to participate in
volunteer work.

Though Promise scholars are told they should do community service, the committee
says that little has been done to promote volunteering.

The committee found that firm requirements would increase the administrative
costs to both the state and colleges.

"While lip-service to a community service requirement might not be very
expensive to administer, ensuring quality experiences for students would be
quite costly," the draft reads.

Instead the committee recommends that students be made to a sign a pledge making
the scholarship a "moral obligation" award that urges some form of "payback" to
the state. Additionally, the state should find some way to recognize scholars to
encourage volunteerism.

The scholarship costs the state about $10 million per graduating class - or more
than $40 million a year total - but that cost has been steadily rising even as
the number of scholars it pays tuition for shrinks because of a decline in the
number of high school graduates and higher eligibility standards.

The increase comes from the continuously rising tuition prices and an increase
in the number of Promise scholars who choose to attend public four-year
colleges.

By choosing to attend four-year universities like WVU, which increases its
tuition every year, students are moving away from cheaper two-year colleges. The
shift also increases expenses by lowering the number of students at private
colleges, which the state already caps pay outs for at $4,300 a year.

The same goes for attendance at Marshall, where a declining number of Promise
scholars have chosen to go. Instead, students are attending WVU, the four-year
public college with the highest tuition in the state.

The committee surveyed the field and found other successes and failures in the
scholarship.

Compared to similar students prior to the implementation of the scholarship,
Promise recipients have higher GPAs, complete more credits overall in college,
and are more likely to take 30 credits per year, according to a study cited in
the report. They have higher four-year graduation rates.

But the scholarship only "modestly increased" the college going rate. And the
number of low-income students in the state has actually fallen by more 2 percent
this decade. This is part of a national trend, but the drop has been sharper in
West Virginia.

In a separate report, a majority of high school seniors said they would still
accept West Virginia's Promise Scholarship even if it required them to work in
the state for a year after college, according to a survey by the state Higher
Education Policy Commission.

The poll, conducted this spring but just released, found that 62 percent of 2008
Promise-eligible graduates would have accepted changes to the scholarship
similar to those proposed by Manchin.

Contact writer Ry Rivard at ry. rivard@dailymail.com or 304-348-1796.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Charleston Newspapers

                              949 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Evening News (Norwich)

                            August 16, 2012 Thursday

Headteachers: Let our students enjoy their day

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 406 words


Headteachers last night said Norwich and Norfolk's students should be allowed to
celebrate their A-level and GCSE results without claims of "easier exams"
undermining their achievements.



Teenagers across the region will head to their schools, sixth forms and colleges
today to collect their A-level results.

But the area's headteachers have warned students could once again face claims
that they have sat easier exams than previous cohorts.

David Brunton, principal at City Academy Norwich, in Earlham, said: "We get that
every year, so I wouldn't be surprised if we do this year. I think it's hugely
unfair in terms of both the work that the teachers put in and how hard I know
particularly A-level students work nowadays to get the grades universities want
them to get.

"Remember, most of our A-level teachers are experienced teachers who have known
A-levels for many years and they don't think it's getting easier."

A steady rise in both A-level and GCSE passes has made the annual accusations
almost inevitable as excited and anxious students discover their grades.

In recent months, ministers and the exams watchdog have fanned those claims with
talk of an overhaul of both qualifications.

But Brian Conway, headteacher at Notre Dame High School, in Norwich, said the
gradual increase in the pass rate was down to a better knowledge of exams and
more focused teaching.

He added: "That's why you see exam results creeping up - and they are creeping,
not leaping, up.

"I also think students are making better choices. Some aren't necessarily
choosing to go into A-levels - some are choosing the apprenticeship route. They
are choosing a better route to get them into employment. It means those who may
have been weaker in the past aren't taking A-levels, so the pass rate will
rise."

Mark Farrar, principal at Reepham High School and College, said the annual
results bashing could have an impact on teenagers.

He said: "As someone who has got a daughter who's getting her A-level results, I
don't think it's fair. It would be terribly de-motivating for any student. It
won't all be celebrations for everyone. There will be disappointment as well. We
have to be sensitive - it's an emotional time."

Go to www.eveningnew24.co.uk for live coverage of results day including how our
schools have fared, good luck messages, and lots of photos of our celebrating
students. And don't miss Monday's Norwich Evening News for a special A-levels
supplement.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EEN


                    Copyright 2012 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              950 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            January 22, 2016 Friday

Playoff committee should diversify;
Differing perspectives would benefit sport;
ANALYSIS

BYLINE: Dan Wolken

SECTION: ; Pg. ZS1

LENGTH: 596 words


The College Football Playoff selection committee, which picks the national
semifinalists is largely made up of white males.

If there's one thing we've figured out about the College Football Playoff
committee after two years, it's that it requires a lot of unnecessary,
irrelevant work and very few difficult decisions at the end.

Once all the games were played, it took about three minutes to figure out the
teams in this season's Playoff, and the 2014 decision to give Ohio State the
fourth spot over Baylor and TCU was close but ultimately a win-win situation for
the committee. No matter which way that vote went, there was not going to be a
large-scale controversy.

That's how it will work most years. It turns out choosing four teams out of five
power conference champions - which, again, will be the template nearly every
year - is pretty straightforward.

So while the 13 people who collectively make the decisions are obviously
important to the process, it's not like they need special skills or intense
background in football strategy. This is less an evaluation of football teams
than it is understanding data.

Which means there's no reason the group picking the playoff should be as male,
old, white and philosophically ancient as it has been and will be again.

The College Football Playoff announced Thursday that it was replacing former Air
Force Academy superintendent Mike Gould, Southern California athletics director
Pat Haden, former Nebraska coach Tom Osborne and former Big East commissioner
Mike Tranghese with former Michigan coach Lloyd Carr, former Southern
Mississippi coach Jeff Bower, former Central Michigan coach Herb Deromedi and
Oregon athletics director Rob Mullens. In other words, four old white guys are
being replaced by ... well, three old white guys and a 46-year-old white guy in
Mullens, who, along with Texas Tech athletics director Kirby Hocutt (age 44),
are the two youngest members of the committee.

If you're looking for diversity, you'd find more in the clubhouse at Augusta
National - where, coincidentally, the committee's only female participant in
Condoleezza Rice is also a member.

Seriously, how is it possible that 19 people in total have now been chosen for
this committee and you've had only one woman (Rice) and two African Americans
(Rice and Tyrone Willingham, formerly coach at Stanford, Notre Dame and
Washington)?

Obviously, if you're choosing most of this committee from athletics directors
and former coaches - who are largely male and white - there's a limited pool of
people to choose from. And even then, flying to Dallas every Monday for the
final six weeks of the season solely to give ESPN content for a television show
until the day after the championship game isn't the kind of thing everybody
wants to do.

Still, they can't come up with a more representative group than this?

Not to impugn the character or integrity or competence of anyone who was picked
this cycle, but if you already have Bobby Johnson on the committee, do you
really need Jeff Bower? If you already have Barry Alvarez, do you really need
Lloyd Carr?

College football's highest honor should represent everyone. This committee
largely represents grainy films from the early 1990s. What would be the harm in
including someone whose background is in statistical analysis? Why not a
recently retired NFL player who starred in college football. Why not someone in
his 30s or another woman? Why not someone with a coaching history in the spread
offense?

College football evolves quickly. This committee, so far, looks like it's going
to be stuck in time.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

                              951 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            November 16, 2015 Monday
                                  Pune Edition

CHOOSE CAREFULLY

BYLINE: Vimal.ChanderJoshi@timesgroup.com

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 555 words


The vast array of career options that students have these days often make it
difficult for them to pick a stream i.e.science, commerce and

humanities after class X. The decision becomes harder when students are unsure
of their capabilities vis-\xE0-vis a particular set of subjects. Moreover, what
works for one student may not necessarily work for another. The decision needs
to be made keeping in mind various factors, say experts.

MIX OF FACTORS

Advises Anubhuti Sehgal, a Delhi-based caree counsellor, "At the

counsellor, "At the age of 16, students may not be sure of their inherent
skills. More often than not, students take a career call on the basis of peer
pressure or the potential salary

they can earn after a degree in that stream. A career counsellor would suggest
that they make a choice on the basis of three factors -aptitude, personality and
interest. Unfortunately, students pay disproportionately more importance to
their interests while paying little attention to their aptitude and
personality."

Some experts, however, say learners should

be flexible while choosing a stream and avoid fol lowing a straitjacketed
approach. "If one is a logi cal thinker, as sertive and have a good command of
the language, they can do well as advocates. However, even if you don't have
these skills, you can sharpen them over a period of time. So, the approach is to
try to apprise students of their strengths and weaknesses in tune with the
career they wish to choose.

Accordingly, they can work on their skills and decide their career path," says
Ali Khwaja, a Bangalore-based counsellor.

OFFBEAT OPTIONS

Counsellors suggest that choosing the wrong discipline can lead to frustration
and underperformance in some cases. They also dissuade students from ignoring
mainstream subjects for the sake of an offbeat career. For, the offbeat options
can be considered even after students complete their formal education. Advises
Sehgal, "There is no harm in choosing a career in fashion photography, cricket
or travel writing but one must be sure that they are not doing it only to avoid
the rigour of formal education. Moreover, they must be informed that while there
may be fewer people opting for offbeat fields, competition is stiff and success
may not come easily."

REALITY CHECK

Pervin Malhotra, a Delhi-based counsellor, recommends a reality check. "One has
to be realistic about choosing the subjects in sync with their career goals.
Having said that, it is advisable to keep your options open and study mainstream
subjects until you are sure of what you want to do."

> For the complete story, visit http://www.educationtimes.com

G RAMAMURTHY

Deputy principal, Loyola College, Chennai Due to the popularity of
cross-disciplinary careers, one should not worry too much about the stream at a
young age. Most engineers go on to study an MBA and make a career in business
management.Similarly, a number of science graduates read law and become lawyers
-this option was traditionally meant for those from a humanities background. So,
one can opt for multiple streams across one's academic life. However, it is a
good idea to aim for a career and then plan backwards while choosing a stream.
One must remember that merely finishing a degree is not adequate to prepare for
a career. The reputation of the university or college is equally important.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              952 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Herald & Review (Illinois)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 3, 2007 Wednesday

Research before choosing nursing home

BYLINE: Courtney Klemm, Herald & Review, Decatur, Ill.

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 455 words


Oct. 3--DECATUR -- People spend months searching for the right house, college or
job, and the same kind of research should be done when choosing the nursing home
that will be the best fit for your loved one.

There are so many choices when considering moving a family member into a nursing
home; proper planning and discussion will make the difficult transition a little
easier, said Myrtle Klauer, director of resident services for the Illinois
Council on Long Term Care.

"Pre-planning is just so important," Klauer said. "Do it way ahead of time, long
before your loved one is hospitalized for a stroke, heart attack or fall and
then needs to be discharged to a nursing home."

To make a good decision on a nursing home, talk to people in your area about
their experiences. Then, take tours of several homes under consideration, Klauer
said; the best time to visit is early afternoon so your family can talk with the
staff and observe, or even take part in, a lunch meal.

"Make up a list of questions so that you're constantly asking questions, and
bring a notebook with you," she said. "When you're done with the tour, write
down what you liked and what you saw that you did not like. Not only listen to
the tour guide, but use your eyes and look around. The residents should be
clean, smiling and interacting with the staff."

Cost and location are two of the main factors involved in the decision, Klauer
said. Also check to see whether the nursing homes you are considering have
private rooms, what the event and activity calendar looks like, if the residents
have a means of getting out in the community, what the food is like, what
therapy and rehabilitation programs are available and how clean the facility is,
she said.

"Even the ability of a loved one to take their furniture with them is very
important because they are losing a lot," she said. "They go through a grieving
process when they have to give away everything they've lived with their whole
life, so if they can take their favorite chair and their bed with them, it will
be easier."

Above all, the more you include the person being admitted into the nursing home
in the whole process, the better, Klauer said.

"It's called a nursing home, and it should be their home," she said. "We want
them to have more of a choice in what they are experiencing."

To see more of Herald & Review, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.herald-review.com Copyright (c) 2007, Herald & Review, Decatur, Ill.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20071003-HV-Research-before-choosing-nursing-home-1003

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HV


                         Copyright 2007 Herald & Review

                              953 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Press (Christchurch, New Zealand)

                           February 21, 2006 Tuesday

Schools turn away hundreds

BYLINE: GRAY Kristi

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 567 words


Canterbury integrated schools continue to turn away hundreds of students,
including some who qualify for admission on religious or special character
status.

Some parents are ensuring a place in their school of choice by enrolling their
child at birth.

Integrated schools, which include Catholic, non- denominational Christian and
special character schools such as Rudolf Steiner and Discovery, teach about 11
per cent of students in all primary and secondary schools.

Schools are required to give preferential treatment to students whose parents
subscribe to the school's special character. They can enrol up to 5%
non-preferential students.

Many schools are not only turning down non-preferential students, but have to
turn away some who meet the requirements.

St Bede's College principal Justin Boyle said this year the school had turned
away about 100 applicants at all levels, including 30 to 35 Catholics.

Like other integrated schools, the college was working with the Ministry of
Education to devise a fair and transparent enrolment scheme so parents of boys
not accepted could understand the criteria, Boyle said.

Catholic schools also faced the difficulty that most were originally set up to
serve all Catholics rather than a particular area, so imposing a geographical
zone such as those for state schools was not appropriate.

Hillview Christian School principal Alan Harrison said that at the start of the
year the school had been inundated with calls from parents wanting to enrol
their children.

The school had an enrolment scheme with the number capped at 460.

"Currently we have a waiting list of 160," Harrison said. "It can be frustrating
for us as we are limited by our capped roll and can't take any more students,
even though we have the capacity."

Villa Maria principal Mary Lynch said 2006 was the first time in four years the
college had found places for non- preference students. While they were
non-Catholics, the four students still had to prove a strong religious
commitment, Lynch said. "Interest in enrolling at the college is very strong and
even though they may have preference, some parents are still choosing to enrol
their daughters at an early age, even at birth."

Robyn Prior, of the Association of Integrated Students, said the number of
parents choosing integrated schools continued to grow.

It was a source of frustration that the ministry was only allowing roll
increases in areas of strong population growth, she said. "Christchurch schools
seem to be OK, but many in the rest of country have to turn away students who
may have a strong family connection to the school," Prior said.

Schools negotiated enrolment schemes with the ministry, but there was wide
variation in the criteria needed before a balloting system was used.

The balloting system threw up anomalies, Prior said.

"Some schools know parents say they subscribe to the special character of the
school, but use this only as a means to ensure enrolment. Once students get in
they may ignore it."

Others parents who fully embraced the school's special character had to join the
ballot system along with those who did not and found their child also missed
out.

The chief executive of the Association of Proprietors of Integrated Schools, Pat
Lynch, said there was more interest in integrated schools than five years ago
because many parents now considered values and spirituality an important part of
a quality education.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved

                              954 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                               December 15, 1996

Registration for British engineering programme

SECTION: Education special; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 437 words


TAYLOR'S College has recently launched a British Engineering Programme.
This is a twinning programme with the University of Sheffield and the
University of Bath.

The University of Sheffield is expanding on the twinning arrangement
already in place - which offers Management and Law - with the addition of
the engineering option and forms a new relationship with the University of
Bath.

Students have the option to transfer to three additional universities -
University of Exeter, University of Plymouth and the University of Wales.
Students can choose between two broad streams of courses to prepare them
for degrees in Civil, Electrical, Electronic and Mechanical Engineering.

Upon choosing the Electronic/Electrical or Mechanical Engineering
Streams, students will do the first year of university studies consisting
of two semesters at the college. Students then have the option of choosing
one of these specialisations: Aerospace, Automotive, Civil,
Communications, Computing Systems, Electronic, Electrical, Manufacturing
and Mechanical to name a few.

After completing the first year at Taylor's students will go on to one
of the universities to study for an additional two years to obtain a
Bachelor of Engineering Honours Degree or for an additional three years
for the Master of Engineering Degree.

The British Engineering Programme is unique in that the universities are
all highly-ranked in the areas of reasearch and teaching for the
engineering departments in the UK. While the course structure and the
subject syllabuses were provided by the University of Sheffield, the
University of Bath has accepted the course as equivalent and likewise the
three other universities.

For students who have completed pre-university courses such as STPM, A-
Level, Australian Matriculation, Canadian Pre-University, UEC, and other
equivalents, students may join directly into the first year of the British
Enginerging Programme. Students are required to have an English
qualification such as IELTS, TOEFL, or English 1119 prior to their
transfer to the British universities.

Taylor's is offering an Inaugural Merit Scholarship for 1997 in
conjunction with the official launching of the British Engineering Degree
Programme. Students with excellent results in their pre-university studies
could be eligible for a half-tuition fee or full tuition fee waiver.

Registration is now open for the British Engineering Programme which
commences on Jan 13. Forecast results are accepted as admission criteria.
Special discounts are available for those who register by Dec 31.


LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture - The right path ... Students seeking advice from a counsellor.

            Copyright 1996 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad

                              955 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 16, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

KEY CHECKPOINTS IN PICKING A SCHOOL

BYLINE: By DEBORAH RANKIN

SECTION: Section 12; Special Section Page 4; Page 4, Column 3; Survey of
Education Desk

LENGTH: 1158 words


FOR parents who have never had to go through the process before, choosing a
preschool program for their youngster can be almost as anxiety-provoking as
applying for a college. Indeed, many parents view enrolling their child in the
''right'' preschool program as the necessary first step toward gaining admission
to the ''right'' college.

While most educators feel that it is far too early to begin thinking in such
terms for 3- and 4-year-olds, they say there is a sensible way to go about
making a preschool choice. (Although preschool and day-care programs have many
common elements, preschool - which has replaced the term ''nursery school''
-usually runs from 9A.M. to noon or 3 P.M., while day care connotes a full-day
program.)

''In choosing a preschool, parents should look at their total family situation
and consider proximity, cost and quali ty of the program in a related way,''
said Dr. Francis Roberts, an official of the National Endowment for the
Humanities in Washington and former president of the Bank Street College of
Educa tion in New York City, which specializes in the education of young c
hildren.

''The best program around may be on the other side of town, but it may also put
extra stress on the family,'' he said. Parents tend to forget how complicated -
and costly - transportation can be, especially for very young children, so it is
wise to select a program whose location fits into the parents' daily pattern of
living.

The cost should be evaluated in a similar manner, Dr. Roberts said. An excellent
but expensive preschool that makes it difficult for a family to meet its other
bills adds to parental stress.

The biggest question, of course, is how to evaluate a program's quality.
Educators are unanimous in urging parents to visit any preschool they are
considering. Two visits are suggested, one by the parents alone and another with
their youngster.

''The reason is the important but elusive aspect of a program that has to do
with atmosphere,'' said Dr. Shirley G. Moore, a professor at the Institute of
Child Development at the University of Minnesota. ''Particular parents should
have the sense that their particular child will fit in there.''

Dr. Roberts agrees. ''Parents should feel confident that they are making an
appropriate choice and have the sense that the program is comfortable and
consistent with the values of their family,'' he said.

Although parents should talk with the school's director, to get a sense of the
school's educational philosophy, they also should meet the teacher who will be
caring for the child. The younger the child, the more important the other
care-giving adult becomes.

Parents are also urged to look at the sort of interaction that goes on between
children and adults at the school during the key episodes of the day, such as
arrival and departure, mealtime and toileting. If the day seems to be a contest
of wills between children and adults, and there is resentment and anger as the
children prepare to leave for home, there may be cause for concern.

Educators say that the type and extent of professional training of a school's
staff should also be considered. They say that at the least the school's
director should have a degree in early childhood education. ''It's not the case
that the only good programs are ones with certified head teachers, but it is a
probability kind of thing,'' Dr. Moore said. ''You stand a better chance of
getting a better program if there is a professionally trained staff.''

All parents are concerned about the content of a program and will want to know
what activities are planned for the child on a daily basis, and as the school
year progresses. Some parents may prefer a fairly rigid structure, with a strong
orientation to academics, while others may favor a more relaxed atmosphere that
accommodates the changing needs and interests of their children.

Dr. Moore suggests that parents ask the school director what the program's goals
are and how they are to be achieved. ''The chances are,'' he said, ''that if the
director can articulate the school's philosophy, he or she has thought it
through a bit more carefully than someone who is at a loss for words.''

One valuable method of checking the quality of a program is asking the opinions
of other parents. If a preschool program has an excellent local reputation, it
probably is worth considering.  ''Neighborhood scuttlebutt is a pretty good way
to ferret out good programs,'' Dr. Moore said.

Parents also should learn what a school's attitude is toward discipline. At one
end of the spectrum are programs that require disobedient children to conform to
adult patterns of behavior by restricting their movement or limiting their
talking. At the other end of the spectrum are programs that try to determine the
causes of a youngster's misbehavior, and then relate it to the child's stage of
development.

Finally, the mechanics of the program should be considered. Does it have
adequate and pleasant space for play? Is there an outdoor exercise area? Is
there room indoors for children to ride bicycles and climb jungle-gyms when the
weather is inclement? Are there inviting and exciting playthings and materials,
ranging from paint and crayons to dress-up clothes and housekeeping toys?

''There is no one master list of equipment that every program should have - not
even sand,'' Dr. Moore said. ''But there should be enough interesting playthings
on hand so that parents who see the school for the first time will be able to
say, 'Oh, my chi ld would love this.' ' '

Once parents have chosen the ideal preschool for their child, they should not be
crestfallen if the youngster doesn't get in. The problem is that demand for good
facilities is soaring, and there just aren't enough to go around. Patricia
Mutolo, director of the Eliza C orwin Frost Child Center, said that demand i s
so great for the 50 places in the mother's cooperative playgroup in Bronxville,
N.Y., that it has a waiting list of 30 children.

Parents should try not to make a child feel that he or she is a failure for not
gaining admission, because such feelings can endure for years. One 30-year-old
New York woman still cringes when she recalls how humiliated she was when she
was rejected for a popular toddler program in the city decades ago.

''Be careful not to establish in the mind of a 4-year-old child that he or she
has not measured up to expectations when the reason is simply that the schools
are full,'' Dr. Roberts advised.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company

                              956 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  The National

                            March 8, 2017 Wednesday

Emiratis should be encouraged to move away from studies in business, experts say

BYLINE: Caline Malek and Melanie Swan

LENGTH: 711  words


Caline Malek

and Melanie Swan

ABU DHABI // Emiratis should be encouraged to study a wider range of subjects at
school and university if they are to expand their career aspirations beyond
government jobs, experts say.

Too many students are choosing business and finance courses at university before
following friends and family into the public sector, instead of pursuing a
broader range of science, technology, engineering and mathematics studies that
could lead to careers with private companies.

"Students need to hear more about the availability of programmes and prepare
themselves for private sector jobs," said Dr Warren Fox, head of higher
education at Dubai's Knowledge and Human Development Authority.

"This has to take place at the school level, way before college."

Dr Fox said the mindset of Emiratis expecting a government job needed to change.
"Emiratis have friends and family in public sector jobs. The emphasis isn't
there."

In Dubai, 70 per cent of students opt to study business or business-related
subjects even though the 30 or so universities in the emirate offer a choice of
more than 400 academic programmes. This is despite the Government's push for
Stem studies.

Opportunities available through the Government for Emiratis choosing Stem
subjects must be grabbed, said Sanjeev Verma, founder of Intelligent Partners,
which guides students from high school through to university.

"Most kids just aren't aware of the fact there is all this support they can get
from the government," he said.

"They must leverage this and schools have a role to play in making these
subjects more accessible and less intimidating."

But until companies diversify their employment criteria the demand for business
and finance graduates will not change, Mr Verma said.

"If employers start looking at subjects more liberally, people will be
encouraged and it will trickle down. The universities will start providing these
courses."

Hamza Zaouli, head of Iris Executives, a recruiter specialising in
Emiratisation, said the private sector was often regarded as a less secure and
more exposed for Emiratis, because they would often be in the minority.

Mr Zaouli suggested making internships at private companies compulsory for
Emiratis during their studies to broaden the appeal of working in the sector.

"This would play a role in preparing younger Emiratis to working environments in
the private sector and be inspired to continue so accordingly, or at least have
more choice," he said.

"I truly believe the future of Emiratisation is in the private sector.

"Many of our private sector clients tell us they are deprived of Emirati talent
because of their preference for careers in government. As a recruiter, this is
truly challenging."

In a speech on Tuesday, Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed, Minister of Foreign Affairs
and International Cooperation, told students: "If you want to participate in
shaping the future then you need to stop thinking of a government job.

"No other country in the region supports youth-led projects like the UAE. It is
one of the easiest countries to set up and run a business, so start your own
business and corporations."

Prof Tod Laursen, head of Khalifa University, which offers mostly Emirati
students classes in topics from space science to genetics, said Sheikh
Abdullah's remarks were "spot on".

"In Khalifa University we do have a certain advantage in that our students are
in a highly challenging academic environment and have already made the
commitment to work hard and improve their prospects.

"I think the next step is to convince our best and brightest that their goal
should not only to be job seekers, but job creators.

"This is what I really liked about the Sheikh's remarks. It is a mindset, as
well as an ambition, that our young people need to take on board. This is a very
important challenge for our universities to meet."

On Wednesday, director general of the Abu Dhabi Education Council Dr Ali Al
Nuaimi told students at the Mohammed bin Zayed Majlis for Future Generations to
be more competitive and take more difficult courses at university.

"We need to provide a driving force to take this progress forward and this
cannot be done without innovation, creativity, perseverance and diligence," he
said.

mswan@thenational.ae

cmalek@thenational.ae

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 818


                     Copyright 2017 Abu Dhabi Media Company
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              957 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Gold Coast Bulletin (Australia)

                            August 26, 2017 Saturday
                               GoldCoast Edition

Student priority taken for ride

BYLINE: Melanie Burgess

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 370  words


AUSSIE university students spend more time choosing a car than selecting their
degree.

A study of 1000 students by Open Universities Australia, found a third of
students admitted spending more time on selecting a set of wheels than study -
despite study being their biggest expense.

One in five student also spent more time researching their next overseas holiday
and one in 10 prioritised their next laptop or phone purchase.

The survey also found one in three students will not finish their course, with
those dropping out half way costing themselves almost $13,000 and two years of
their life.

Social analyst David Chalke said university degrees had become so common that
students lost their motivation to get it right.

"The education system now says you have to go to university after school so it's
just another step on the ladder they have been on since they were five," he
said. "About 50 per cent of under 25s still live at home with their parents so
it's even more like a continuation of school." Mr Chalke was not surprised
students took more care choosing a car as immediate costs seemed more real.

"It's about future long-term benefits and costs versus immediate gratification
and (costs)," he said. "Would you prefer a doughnut or life insurance? Well, a
doughnut." The research also found one in three students had started a course
they did not finish, with most changing their mind about what they wanted to
study (40 per cent).

Other common reasons for quitting included the content not being what they
expected (32 per cent) and an inability to manage the workload (23 per cent).

OUA chief executive Paul Wappett said students often had an unrealistic picture
of the course they were pursuing or were pressured by others to make a certain
choice.

"The more information you build into your decision making the more likely you
are to make a better decision," he said.

"It's the type of research we do when looking for a home or car or credit card
but don't seem to spend as much time doing in relation to education."For
students who may never own a home, their degree is likely to be the single
biggest investment they will make in their life so it's worth putting in the
time and effort to make sure it's a god one."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Gold Coast Bulletin


                   Copyright 2017 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              958 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            August 23, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Whatever your GCSEs you will have a career path ahead;
Further education will be the preferred option for thousands of students in
Wales receiving their GCSE results today. But there are alternatives to
sixth-form or college, with the world of work opening more doors in the current
financial climate. With so much to decide, Education Wales asks Rilla Morries,
head of information and marketing at advisory group Careers Wales, for a steer
on what to do next...

BYLINE: Rilla Morries

SECTION: JOBS WALES;FEATURES; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1365 words


Q. What are the main options available to me after I get my results? A. You can
continue in full-time education at sixth-form or college, or go straight into a
job, training scheme or apprenticeship.

Q. What if I don't get the grades I wanted? A. Don't panic! Whatever your
results, there will be something you can do. A wide range of courses is
available to suit all interests and abilities at school or college, or you could
consider a work-based training course and get qualifications and experience on
the job.

Q. I want to go to university eventually - what is the best way to get there? A.
These days it is possible to gain entry qualifications for university in a
variety of ways. Taking A-levels is the traditional route and still a good
choice, or you could take a more vocational course such as a BTec National
Diploma or NVQ Level 3. Taking the Welsh Baccalaureate may give you an
advantage. You can also go to university following completion of an advanced
level apprenticeship. Q. Is it too early to start looking at universities and
higher education courses? A. No, it's important to consider all options
available to you and researching these now is a good idea. By choosing what
route you want to take, for example a particular course at university, you can
ensure that you choose the right A-levels or other Level 3 course such as a BTec
national diploma, which are necessary for entry to and will be beneficial for
your university course.

Q. The academic or vocational route - how do I know which is best for me? A.
Think about what you enjoy doing - do you enjoy study and research or do you
prefer to be hands-on? The vocational route could take you along any career
path, ranging from accountancy to hairdressing, providing you with practical
on-the-job experience and a wage, while you study. It can lead to full-time
employment and put you a step ahead when competing with your peers in an
increasingly challenging jobs market. You can choose to study a full-time
vocational course at college or do your training in the workplace.

Q. How important are GCSEs - and do I need to re-sit? A. Re-sitting may be
important if you want to study at A-level or Level 3, such as BTec national
diplomas or NVQ Level 3, you will usually need a minimum of four or five GCSEs
at grades A*-C or equivalent for entry. GCSEs are important as they become the
basis of your future education and employability, demonstrating your academic
ability and your suitability for a higher level course, training or a job. An
alternative if you haven't got A-C grades at GCSE, is to take an
intermediate/Level 2 qualification at college.

Q. I can't decide between sixth-form or college. What's the difference? A.
Sixth-form and college both offer 16 to 19-year-olds the opportunity to
undertake further education. Choosing the sixth-form means you will be in a
familiar, school-based environment which might suit some people. The age range
for students is up to 19. Further education colleges are usually bigger and
offer a wider range of vocational courses and you may be studying alongside
adults. Depending on the courses you choose to take and their local
availability, it might be possible to combine your studies at both school and
college.

Q. I've had enough of full-time education - what can I do instead? A. There are
lots of work-based training routes on offer which provide you with valuable
qualifications at the same time as practical, often paid, experience in real
work situations. Apprenticeship vacancies can be viewed on the Apprenticeship
Matching Service, available on careerswales.com, in addition to information and
advice on work-based learning. If you are between 16 and 24 and want to gain
some work experience without making a full commitment, our website also has
details of Jobs Growth Wales which provides six-month work experience
placements. Q. I'd like to continue my education in school or college but I'm
short of money. Is there help available? A. If you are a 16 to 18-year-old and
in full-time education in Wales, you may apply for a means-tested education
maintenance allowance (EMA) of up to £30 a week. So, depending on your
household's annual income, you could get £10, £20 or £30 a week. This is paid
every two weeks, so you would get £20, £40 or £60 every fortnight. Q. Can I take
a part-time job while I'm at school or college? A. Yes, as long as it doesn't
interfere with your study time, a part-time job is a good way of learning new
skills and earning extra money whilst you study. Choosing a part-time job which
is relevant to your chosen ca-reer path will give you a taste of working in that
sector and will provide you with valuable work experience when you come to apply
for a full-time job or a related course.

Q. Is work experience worthwhile? A. Any experience is very worthwhile as
prospective employers value a CV that shows you have used your spare time,
including weekends and term holidays, wisely to gain practical on the job
experience that could benefit their business. Doing work experience or
volunteering will boost your employability skills which are increasingly
important in today's challenging jobs market.

Q. I'm still a teenager - why is it important to think about my career now? A.
It's important to think about the longer term impact of your ideas. This
decision could affect your career path and certainly how you spend the next few
years of your life so it's important to get it right and to think in detail
about what you want for your future before making any decisions.

Q. I have no ideas. What shall I do? A. You can start by thinking about what you
like doing, your interests and what you are good at. There are lots of ideas on
careerswales.

com. Contact Careers Wales and also talk your ideas over with friends and family
as they could help you discuss the best path for you.

Q. Where can I go for help? A. For independent advice regarding the wide variety
of education, training and employment options, including a database of courses,
job and apprenticeship vacancies, visit careerswales.com. Young people and their
parents can also use the online chat service that will be available on
careerswales.com/wherenow until tomorrow. Alternatively, they can call the
Learning and Careers Advice Line on 0800 100 900 (029 2390 6801 if calling from
a mobile).

DEGREES IN THE SUN WELSH university hopefuls are being asked to extend their
search for higher education down under.

Students fed up with wet and windy Wales are promised sun-soaked halls, BBQs on
the deck and surf lessons between lectures by the South Australian Government.

As secondary school students across the country review their options after last
week's A-level results, politicians the other side of the world have launched a
UK-wide campaign alerting students to opportunities in Adelaide.

The South Australian administration is hoping to use the spiralling cost of UK
higher education to its advantage by enticing more students to its shores.

Fees in Adelaide range from around £10,000 a year and with the majority of
universities in England and Wales charging £9,000, learning overseas is now
considered a more viable option.

Adelaide is one of Australia's most affordable cities and international students
can live independently for as little as £175 a week, including accommodation,
travel, groceries, utility bills and entertainment.

The new Australian academic year starts in February 2013, so UK-based students
still have until December 1 to apply to Adelaide's top three universities.

The University of Adelaide, the University of South Australia and Flinders
University have helped South Australia produce more Nobel Laureates than any
other Australian state.

Fronting the campaign to attract students from the UK, deputy agent general for
South Australia Matt Johnson said: "We're offering UK students the chance to
re-think their options. Why not think of a new 'Plan A'? Plan Adelaide.

"Students can have the experience of a lifetime studying for a world recognised
quality degree in Adelaide" . Since 2000, the number of international students
in South Australia has soared from 6,189 to 31,334. Numbers from the UK have
doubled from 167 in 2002 to 338 in 2011.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ GCSE results out today will open doors to higher education or
vocational training

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2012 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              959 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             October 2, 2009 Friday
                                   D1 Edition

Fence Post

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 551 words


Writer's remark was

degrading to many

In her Sept. 18 Fence Post letter (Would Dems not let a Republican speak?),
Donna Hathaway said two things to which I must respond.

First, I'd like to address her primary topic. When George Bush Sr. gave a very
similar address to schoolchildren in 1991, the Democrat-controlled Congress did
worse than encourage schools not to watch. After his address, they began weeks
of investigations and hearings accusing the president of misusing taxpayer
dollars for the address. He was cleared of any wrongdoing, but he had already
been slandered. President Obama had it comparatively easy.

But what I really take issue with is Ms. Hathaway's statement regarding public
pressure not to show President Obama's address. She wrote, "I do not believe
ever in the history of our country has there been such a degrading act." You
have got to be kidding me. How about the forced relocation of Native Americans?
How about slavery? How about the internment of U.S. citizens during World War
II?

Please, Ms. Hathaway, either go to your nearest community college and take an
American History course, or choose your words more carefully. Your careless
statement was, in itself, more degrading to more people than a school choosing
not to show a video.

Tyler Benjamin

Wheaton

No plans to seek house in Oak Brook

In response to Burt Constable's front-page Oct. 1 article on the Oak Brook
library (Choice words for a library): My wife and I are planning to retire soon.
On top of our wish list is a single-level home that we can afford (a brick ranch
would be fine) with enough of a yard to have a compost heap and a vegetable
garden, in a smallish town, within walking distance of the library.

We have already scouted out several towns in southern Wisconsin, and on Saturday
we are going to spend a week exploring Vermont and New Hampshire.

We do not plan to go house-hunting in Oak Brook.

Per Flaatten

Warrenville

District 200 decision hardly 'cowardly'

Wheaton Warrenville Unit District 200 exercised proper judgment by choosing not
to air President Obama's speech. In response to Karen Ross (Fence Post, Sept.
12), all claims that this decision was cowardly are unjustified.

If you want students to have discussions about "keeping kids in school and
developing personal goals," I surely would hope that they are having that
discussion with their families. The most effective communication of values that
motivate young students comes from home with their families, not politicians.

Obama's speech was a last-ditch effort to turn around his flagging support. As
his administration and Democrat-controlled Congress argue over how to bankrupt
us to the moon, the electorate has overwhelmingly sounded off that they will not
stand for this any more. It speaks to the direction that this great country is
going in. This is America. When things get tough, we do not want radicals
telling us how to spend our money, which faith to worship, what we should learn
in school, and most importantly, how to live our lives. Dependence on government
for everything from values to health care will educate us on the hard lessons
learned by the former communist countries still in tatters.

This is why I say, good for you, District 200. Keep doing a great job and don't
infringe on their family values.

Dan Milinko

West Chicago

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              960 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                             June 28, 2016 Tuesday

ECE, mechanical engg. favourites

LENGTH: 364  words

DATELINE: CHENNAI


CHENNAI, June 28 -- Counselling for the Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions for
2016 began on Monday with four of the top seven students choosing Electronics
and Communication Engineering and three, choosing mechanical engineering.


 By the end of fifth session of counselling, no seats were left in the open
category in ECE, EEE, Mechanical Engineering, and Computer Science Engineering
branches in the College of Engineering, Guindy.
 In the autonomous PSG College of Technology, Coimbatore, seats had been filled
up in Civil Engineering, ECE, EEE and IT. Among the self-supporting courses, no
seats were left in Computer Science Engineering, ME and ECE.
 The candidate ranked second opted for medicine and candidates ranked between
eighth and 25th did not turn up.
 In the first session, a total of 170 candidates were invited, but only 76
participated. Officials said of the 94 absentees, 89 opted for MBBS, counselling
for which ended on Saturday.
 Among the top seven were at least three students from other States, including
topper A. Aburva Darshini of Kerala, who chose ECE.
 S. Shivram Kruthvik, who graduated from a school in Hyderabad, said Chennai was
the destination for higher education as his father hails from Tirupur. But he is
undecided on whether to pursue ECE at CEG, as he has scored 7,000th rank in JEE
(Advanced).
 "I would like to study either mechanical or electrical engineering at the NIT.
Counselling is only in July and if I get into the branch of my choice, I may not
join Anna University," he said.
 But for Bharathan N, who is ranked third, it is a dream come true to join Anna
University. He is looking forward to his course work at the university. He has
chosen Mechanical Engineering at CEG.
 K.M. Harshitha, who chose CSE, hails from Andhra Pradesh, but her mother is a
teacher in a government school in Gudiyatham.
 Her father is a head constable in Vijayapuram in Andhra Pradesh. "I have been
very interested in computers since childhood and this is the natural choice,"
she said.
 At the end of the fifth session on Monday, 7,603 seats were vacant in
university department colleges; 5,587 in government/aided colleges and 1,71,004
in self-financing institutions.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved

                              961 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Monitor (McAllen, Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 21, 2013 Tuesday

IDEA Donna teacher among 4 national award recipients

BYLINE: Jacqueline Armendariz, The Monitor, McAllen, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 598 words


May 21--DONNA -- A far cry from the sometimes disparaging attitude toward
teaching noted by IDEA Donna educator Jennifer Corroy, officials surprised her
with a prestigious national award on Monday and she beamed while surrounded by
students.

The New Teacher Project -- a Brooklyn, N.Y.-based nonprofit more commonly known
as TNTP -- selected Corroy along with three other public school teachers from
across the nation. They will each receive the $25,000 Fishman Prize in
recognition of their excellence in teaching and their practices as effective
educators. They'll also participate in a TNTP summer residency program. More
than 570 full-time teachers working in high-poverty public schools applied.

The other award winners this year came from well-recognized urban areas like
Chicago, Memphis and Newwark, N.J., according to a news release from TNTP.

"It makes me proud to teach you," the public charter school teacher said as the
senior students packed into her classroom applauded and cheered for her. "It's
just such a privilege to work with you guys."

Other accolades Corroy has recently earned include the teacher of the year at
the campus and the Teach for America alumni award. TNTP was initially founded by
controversial reformer Michelle Rhee, who was chancellor of District of Columbia
public schools from 2007 to 2010 and a TFA corps member at one point.

"I think the fact of doing something really special like this is just more of a
testimony to how much I think TNTP cares about teachers and making it really,
truly special," Corroy said.

She acknowledged teaching can be complicated, including the criticism of Teach
for America in that sometimes recruits are only educators for a short time.

Corroy said teaching is often degraded by the public.

"Teaching is not glamorous work. People don't honor teaching as something that
people choose to do because they're smart, hard-working, dedicated people," she
said. "But, I think that for me, choosing to teach means choosing to become the
best professional I can be."

The 32-year-old has taught at the Donna campus for three years and worked for
IDEA for the past six. She teaches English and International Baccalaureate
English for seniors.

Last year, 80 percent of Corroy's class received college credit via their IB
exams, an unheard-of statistic, said Christina Cavazos-Escamilla, principal at
the IDEA College Prep Donna campus. All IDEA students are required to take IB
programs.

"There's not a more deserving individual and someone who I think has been
super-incredible in really, truly closing that gap in helping children be
successful through college, not just to college," Cavazos-Escamilla said of
Corroy.

There are 781 students in grades six through 12 at the IDEA Donna campus, which
also has primary school students. While the campus expects its new building to
open this summer, allowing them to forgo the multiple portables in use now, the
organization also has a presence in Austin and plans for significant expansion
in San Antonio.

JoAnn Gama, IDEA co-founder and chief of schools, was one of several officials
there to surprise Corroy on Monday. She said Corroy is believed to be the first
teacher in the Valley, and perhaps Texas, to receive the award. It is also the
first time an IDEA teacher has received the award, she said.

Jacqueline Armendariz covers education for The Monitor. She can be reached at
jarmendariz@themonitor.com and (956) 683-4434 or on Twitter, @jarmendariz.

___ (c)2013 The Monitor (McAllen, Texas) Visit The Monitor (McAllen, Texas) at
www.themonitor.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20130521-MC-IDEA-Donna-teacher-among-4-national-award-recipients-0521-20130521

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MC


                           Copyright 2013 The Monitor

                              962 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                              June 13, 2010 Sunday

Life after SLC

LENGTH: 1212  words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, June 13 -- This year, more than 455,000 students have appeared in the SLC
exams; and the results are expected to be released by the mid-July. Then what?
What subject are you going to pursue for your higher studies? Most students who
pass SLC are confused about their future academic course.

"This happens mainly because of friends' influence and parent pressure," said
Ramesh Silwal, chief executive officer of Goldengate International College.
"They can take advice from friends and family, but they must make the final
decision themselves based on interest, capability and future scope."

Bikram Rai, founder and chief of Prasadi Academy, said that the students should
examine the educational background of the past 10 years and opt for a course in
10+2 based on their performance in class 10. "There is no use opting for science
if you are bad in math and good in social science," he added.

If you have always wanted to become a banker and is good in management, you can
go for a management course without any dilemma. Similarly, students interested
in making a career in the medical line can enrol in science and specialise at
the bachelor's and Master's levels targeting the right career in the vast field
of science.

"Student must choose a course based on interest, educational background and
future prospects," said Surendra Prasad Singh, chairman of Pentagon
International College.

Conventionally, students obtaining over 80 percent marks in SLC choose science
as if there were no other good careers for students. However, with the change in
mentality of the parents and wider scope in the management field with lucrative
returns, many students securing high marks have also started to choose
management. Likewise, such students have also been found choosing humanities

"Obviously, the trend is changing," said Singh. "Interest in management from
high scorers is increasing significantly."

Pursuing an academic course in management leads students to become bankers,
entrepreneurs, traders and many other professionals in the field of business,
marketing, accounting, finance, ccommerce and economics. Management students can
also study hotel and tourism management.

Humanities, which is considered as the field of creativity and art, opens the
door to a future career in literature, the arts, politics, media, social sector,
economic and many other professions related to social sciences, political
science, arts, economics, dance and music. The faculty is the largest in terms
of subjects incorporated in it.

Similarly, if one goes for science, one can become a doctor, engineer, nurse,
food technologist, biotechnologist, environmentalist, agro-specialist or
forestry officer. This faculty has always remained a preferred course because of
its scope in a wide range of careers in engineering and medicine.

Likewise, there are options for pursuing education after SLC in education, fine
arts, forestry, veterinary and vocational and technical courses offered by the
Council for Technical Education and Vocational Training (CTEVT).

No matter what course one chooses, it should be chosen based on the course's
impact on building the perfect career. Likewise, where you study is equally
important as what you study. Thus, while choosing a college, you must know about
the faculties, fees, infrastructure and past performance among other
considerations.

Generally, depending up on the college, it costs an average of Rs. 100,000 for
10+2 in science in private colleges. Similarly, for management and humanities,
it costs around Rs. 65,000 and Rs. 50,000 respectively. In government
institutions, the cost may range from Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 40,000 except for
science. There are altogether 2,576 institutions offering 10+2 education.

"Normally, all the colleges are good. But the students themselves should choose
a college keeping in mind factors like college environment and potential student
competitors," said Bikram Rai of Prasadi Academy. "We show students the way for
a better future through this golden gate of +2, the rest depends on the students
and their learning capacity."

Tips for +2 Aspirants

1. First, decide what interests you. Make a list of the fields of study that
interest you in 10+2, and come up with a list of courses you would consider
studying based on these interests. Add the topics that you were most interested
in during school.

2. There are numerous resources like internet, newspapers, television, people
and colleges around you that could be best for knowing more about the courses
before choosing any particular one. Check online materials about the courses you
are interested in and find out about the career scope and its prospects and
other info. You can talk to people of the field in which you are interested in
and know the real experience of their career.

3. It is also important to go through the course outline in which you want to
pursue 10+2. Have a look at the subjects you must undertake and the types of
learning, assignments and examination tasks involved in the college. Normally,
even if the course is the same, the teaching methods can vary from college to
college. This will simply help you to be informed about what lies ahead for you.

4. Before joining any college, visit as many colleges as you can with parents,
friends or even alone. Check the list of the faculties, past record of the
college, infrastructure, library, computer lab, classes, facilities offered and
fees. Get to know the scope of the course from the college officials too.
Colleges make good commitments, later they fail to implement them.

5. Get to know the extracurricular and co-curricular activities and facilities
for sports. It helps students to learn easily through practical courses and
extracurricular activities more than the traditional class learning process.
Sports, dance, singing and drama are also important for amusement along side the
daily education.

6. Unfortunately, some courses are too hard to get into, or just too hard to
actually succeed in completing, so be honest with your course selection so that
it does not let you feel down later on. You should look for other colleges or
similar courses if you are not confident in being accepted into your first
preference course. If the college you want to enroll in is famous and hard to
get in, it will be difficult for you. In such a case, you should prepare very
well for the entrance test. And also don't forget to know if the college is
offering some kind of scholarship to top scorers in the entrance exam.

7. The cost of the course is another major aspect. It is better to know all the
cost breakdown that you have to bear for the course as well as the additional
costs that occur, such as text books and field trips. And do not let cost hamper
your career choice, as there are colleges which also offer scholarships, get to
know about such colleges.

8. Whatever course you opt for is completely for your future career
opportunities. Look at the career prospects of the course before selecting one.
Do consider factors such as income, job security, stress, responsibility and
other benefits while researching a profession. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from EKantipur.com. For more information on news feed please contact
Sarabjit Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                 Copyright 2010 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              963 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                           December 22, 2009 Tuesday
                                  Main Edition

Christmas books can be personal and refreshing

BYLINE: Thomas Sowell; For the AJC

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 755 words


One way to reduce the wear and tear of Christmas shopping at the mall is to give
books as presents. Books can be bought on the Internet, and they can be matched
to the person who receives them without having to know that person's
measurements.

Dick Morris' new book --- "Catastrophe" --- is an education in itself, on
politics, on economics and on foreign policy. It is a strong antidote to the
pious rhetoric and spin that come out of Washington and the media.

Partly this is because Dick Morris was once a Beltway insider --- an adviser to
President Bill Clinton --- who knows first-hand the ugly realities behind the
pretty words that politicians use and that much of the media repeat.

Morris' argument in "Catastrophe" --- whose title tells us where he sees us
headed --- is backed up by numerous hard facts and supported by an understanding
of history and economics.

Most of all, it is supported by an understanding of politics as it is, rather
than the way it is depicted by politicians and the media.

Dick Morris can also cut through a blizzard of political spin with a few plain
words. In describing Barack Obama's economic policies, Morris says simply:
"Curing the recession was not his end; it was his means to the end. The end was
bigger government."

Obama's actions often make no sense if you believe Obama's words, but they do
make sense if you follow Dick Morris' analysis.

A revised edition of Angelo Codevilla's classic book, "The Character of
Nations," has been published this year, and it, too, is an education in itself.

"The Character of Nations" is less focused on immediate domestic political
issues --- though it does analyze the contrasting responses of the
intelligentsia to Sarah Palin and Obama --- but it is focused more on the
underlying cultural developments that affect how nations work --- or don't work.

The very title of "The Character of Nations" is a challenge to the prevailing
ideology that denies or downplays underlying differences among individuals,
groups and nations. There are many examples of these differences.

For example, professor Codevilla says: "While it is unimaginable to do business
in China without paying bribes, to offer one in Japan is the greatest faux pas."

He sees the things that are valued differently in different cultures as the key
to everything from economic progress to personal freedom. But these values are
not set in stone --- which means that countries that currently benefit from a
given set of values can lose those benefits when those values get lost.

Codevilla says: "The reason why inhabitants of the First World should keep the
Third World in mind is that habits prevalent in the countries that became known
as the Third World are a set of human possibilities that any people anywhere can
adopt at any time. As Argentina showed in the 20th century, falling from the
First World to the Third can be easy and quick."

Another revised and very valuable book is "Choosing the Right College,"
published by the Intercollegiate Studies Institute. This latest edition is once
again by far the best college guide in America.

Like many of us, it has put on weight over the years and is now 1,084 pages
long, but its weight is all muscle.

First of all, "Choosing the Right College" asks the right question: What is the
right college for you, not what is the "best" college by some formula for
ranking colleges and universities.

In addition to a very thorough examination of the academic realities at these
institutions, it goes into the social atmosphere, which can make or break the
whole college experience in terms of what is right for a particular student.

College is, after all, not just a school but a home, for four long years ---
usually for people who are living away from home for the first time in their
lives.

Being in the wrong place, in terms of neighbors and atmosphere, can ruin the
academic advantages of even the best institution.

This book helps match particular students with particular places, which is what
is crucial.

My own books published this year include "The Housing Boom and Bust," which made
The New York Times best-seller list.

Another book of mine this year was the revised and enlarged edition of "Applied
Economics," which has a long chapter on the economics of medical care, including
the experience of other countries that have gone down the road to government
control of medicine.

Their experience should be a warning to us all.

Thomas Sowell, an Opinion columnist, is a senior fellow at the Hoover
Institution, Stanford University. He writes on Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2009 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                              964 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                            March 2, 2016 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Choosing the right Leaving Cert subjects for you;
Going to college

BYLINE: Aoife Walsh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 793 words


THE subjects that a student selects for the Leaving Certificate can have a big
influence on performance in the exam. While some are essential for entry to
particular third-level courses, others are never required. Here are pointers to
help any student to make good choices.

What do you like? Every subject at Leaving Cert is challenging. Most schools
offer five class periods a week for each subject and, in addition, students
should be doing two-to-three hours further study in each subject in their own
time. Students who study what they enjoy are likely to perform better in those
subjects. This will result in higher grades, higher CAO points and, therefore,
more options. Students are likely to pursue third-level courses that are related
to subjects they enjoyed at school, so, by choosing subjects they enjoy,
students are likely to be choosing what they may need as well.

What are you good at? One way students can maximise their results is by playing
to their strengths. Firstly, consider Junior Certificate results if they are
available. It is important not only to look at the subjects in which they
achieved the highest grades, but also why students performed best in these.
Perhaps the subject was taught by a favourite teacher; perhaps a large project
component helped.

Contact Aoife aoifewalsh@independent.

Many students may also have participated in some aptitude testing and, if so, it
is important to consider these results and discuss them with someone who is able
to interpret them, such as a guidance counsellor. Other testing is available on
www.careersportal.ie.

Finally, students should consider their hobbies and interests, subjects they
have taken in TY and speak to their families and friends.

What do you need? There are a number of subjects that a student may require for
entry to third level, however often these requirements are less complex than
originally thought. Students should spend about 80pc of their time considering
what they like and what they are good at, and 20pc of their time considering
what they need. If students have ideas about what they would like to study after
school they should research the entry requirements for these courses thoroughly
in a variety of different institutions.

If students are still not clear on what they would like to study at third level,
they should research the requirements for a number of different areas and
consider common themes. This can be done on www.qualifax.ie, where students can
enter key words that result in a list of relevant courses and their
descriptions. Students should pay particular attention when considering their
choices in the areas of languages, sciences and technical subjects.

at ie Aoife Walsh is a guidance counsellor at Malahide Community School, Co
Dublin QWE moved back to Ireland three years ago and we opted for our daughter,
who is in 6th class, to do Irish. She is struggling. Is it too late for an
exemption? What impact will it have if she does not have Leaving Cert Irish for
entry into UCC, Trinity, NUIG? A Students may apply for an exemption from
studying Irish for a number of reasons, including being born outside of the
state, being educated outside the state for more than three years and returning
after 11 years of age, and as a result of a learning difficulty. In order to put
the exemption in place you should write to the school principal outlining the
reasons you are requesting the exemption. Decisions must be made in line with
the guidelines issued by the Department of Education, but it is the school that
decides if a child meets the criteria.

If your daughter receives an exemption for Irish she will be exempt from the
requirement to present Irish for matriculation to all colleges who require it,
including University College Cork and NUI Galway. Trinity requires students to
present with English and another language and she can apply to be exempted from
this requirement also.

IMPORTANT DATES TODAY ? Open Day - Griffith College Dublin ? Teagasc Open Day -
Mountbellew Agricultural College ? Information Sessions - Roslyn Park/National
Learning Network TOMORROW ? Agri Careers - RDS ? Media, Film & Photography Open
Evening -St. Kevin's College Crumlin MARCH 4 ? Teagasc Spring Open Day -
Kildalton Agricultural College MARCH 5 ? CAO late application facility opens ?
Mature Students Admissions Pathway (MSAP) test - Dublin, Cork, Limerick, Galway
MARCH 8 ? Interviews - Colaiste Ide CFE ? Open Evening - Dublin Business School
? Medicine/Dentistry Entrance Exams for Lithuanian Uni of Health Sciences -
Dublin International Foundation College ? Open Day - Galway Technical Institute
MARCH 9 ? Enrolment Day - Ballsbridge CFE ? Open Evening - Bray Institute of FE
? Open Day - Kerry CFE ? Interview & Information Day - Marino CFE

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              965 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      January 7, 2001 Sunday CITY EDITION

CHOOSING A MAJOR: FIRST, TAKE STOCK OF YOURSELF;
EVALUATING STRENGTHS, INTERESTS IS CRUCIAL TO FINDING RIGHT PATH

BYLINE: Judith Yates Borger, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 606 words


Kevin Tram is a sophomore at Macalester College who is about to make a decision
that could profoundly affect the rest of his life.

Or, maybe not.

Tram is about to declare his major.

Like most colleges and universities, Macalester requires its students to declare
their major by the beginning of their junior year. Since most schools have
students register in the spring for classes the following fall, Tram will have
made up his mind, at least for the time being, by the last week in April.

The verdict for him? Biology, with an emphasis on neuroscience and psychiatry,
for a career in medicine.

Tram, 19, is one of the lucky ones. He came to his decision with a minimum of
agony. He fell in love with matters of the mind when he took is first college
psychology class. He talked with advisers in Macalester's career development
office, who gave him a list of alumni willing to meet with him. He plans to
shadow a psychiatrist in a couple of weeks.

"What's my advice?" Tram said. "Take a variety of classes and see which interest
you the most and then talk to your professors."

The advice from Denis Ward, director of Macalester's career development center,
is even more basic.

"Choosing a major is important," she said, "but we really work to soften the
association between career and major. The reality is that most graduates end up
in careers that don't have a straight line back to their major - particularly in
the liberal arts."

Rather, most advisers encourage students to think about their interests and
aptitudes, and then think about how to transfer that to their areas of studies,
and ultimately to careers, Ward said.

Toward that end, Macalester has a six-point plan for determining a major:

Decide to decide. Be clear about your motivation and timeline.

Gather information, about yourself, what is important to you, how you like to do
things, what energizes you. Gather information about occupations. Make a list of
career areas that you have thought about and rank them one to 10 according to
your enthusiasm for them. Scan the Sunday newspaper classified ads for two or
three weekends and write down any job titles or organizations that catch your
attention. List the ones you despise, as well. Sometimes the first step is
ruling out some options.

Analyze that information. Find common elements. Most people find that the things
they have pulled together will cluster in one or two areas.

Research the fields. Interview people in the field that interests you. Look
through books, journals and Web sites.

Focus and distill your preferences. For example, you have pulled a desire to
work in the nonprofit sector together with an interest or aptitude in music and
have found that arts administration offers positions of interest. Now, what kind
of organization?

Acknowledge your passions and realities. Nothing is more fulfilling than when
you are working on something you are passionate about. But temper choices with
the realities of you self-assessment in order to create reasonable opportunities
for success. You can shoot for the moon, but make sure you have a rocket that
will get you there.

Resources There are many resources available to students in search of a major.
Some of them are Web sites, such as www.monster.com, or www.myroad.com. There is
also the widely read book, "What color is your parachute?" by Richard Bolles.
Another book to consider is "Career Planning Q's and A's: A Handbook for
Students, Parents and Professionals" by Paul Phifer, published by Ferguson
Publishing Company in Chicago.

Judith Yates Borger can be reached at Jborger@pioneerpress.com or (651)
228-5297..

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Marshall, Pioneer Press
Macalester College sophomore Kevin Tram of Brooklyn Park is pursuing a
major in biology, with an emphasis on neuroscience and psychiatry.
Tram has also had two years of post-secondary education at the
University of Minnesota. "I've been in college for four years, so
I've had plenty of time to think about it," he said of picking a
major.

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              966 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            November 16, 2015 Monday
                                 Mumbai Edition

CHOOSE CAREFULLY

BYLINE: Vimal.ChanderJoshi@timesgroup.com

SECTION: EDUCATION TIMES

LENGTH: 552 words


The vast array of career options that students have these days often make it
difficult for them to pick a stream i.e. science, commerce and humanities after
class X. The decision becomes harder when students are unsure of their
capabilities vis-\xE0-vis a particular set of subjects. Moreover, what works for
one student may not necessarily work for another. The decision needs to be made
keeping in mind various factors, say experts.

MIX OF FACTORS

Advises Anubhuti Sehgal, a Delhi-based career counsellor, "At the age of 16,
students may

not be sure of their inherent skills.More often than not, students take a career
call on the basis of peer pressure or the potential salary they can earn after a
degree in that stream. A ca

reer counsellor would suggest that they make a choice on the basis of three
factors -aptitude, personality and interest. Unfortunately, students pay
disproportionately more importance to their interests while paying little
attention to their aptitude and personality."

Some experts, howev er, say learners should be flexible while choosing a stream
and avoid fol lowing a straitjacket ed approach.

"If one is a logi cal thinker, as sertive and have a good command of the lan
guage, they can do well as advocates. However, even if you don't have these
skills, you can sharpen them over a period of time. So, the approach is to try
to apprise students of their strengths and weaknesses in tune with the career
they wish to choose. Accordingly,

they can work on their skills and decide their career path," says Ali Khwaja, a
Bangalorebased counsellor.

OFFBEAT OPTIONS

Counsellors suggest that choosing the wrong

discipline can lead to frustration and underperformance in some cases. They also
dissuade students from ignoring mainstream subjects for the sake of an offbeat
career. For, the offbeat options can be considered even after students complete
their formal education. Advises Sehgal, "There is no harm in choosing a career
in fashion photography, cricket or travel writing but one must be sure that they
are not doing it only to avoid the rigour of formal education. Moreover, they
must be informed that while there may be fewer people opting for offbeat fields,
competition is stiff and success may not come easily."

REALITY CHECK

Pervin Malhotra, a Delhi-based counsellor, recommends a reality check. "One has
to be realistic about choosing the subjects in sync with their career goals.
Having said that, it is advisable to keep your options open and study mainstream
subjects until you are sure of what you want to do."

> For the complete story, visit http://www.educationtimes.com

G RAMAMURTHY

Deputy principal, Loyola College, Chennai

Due to the popularity of cross-disciplinary careers, one should not worry too
much about the stream at a young age. Most engineers go on to study an MBA and
make a career in business management. Similarly, a number of science graduates
read law and become lawyers -this option was traditionally meant for those from
a humanities background. So, one can opt for multiple streams across one's
academic life. However, it is a good idea to aim for a career and then plan
backwards while choosing a stream. One must remember that merely finishing a
degree is not adequate to prepare for a career. The reputation of the university
or college is equally important.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              967 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                                 April 8, 2010
                                 First Edition

A big new market?;
DIVERSITY A survey suggests women could be a major growth area for business
schools. Liz Lightfoot reports

BYLINE: Liz Lightfoot

SECTION: EDUCATION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 874 words


Women remain a minority on MBA courses and could provide a substantial new
market for colleges over the next decade, according to a study published today.

Despite the gains made by women in the workplace over the past few decades, they
represent only around three in 10 of all MBA students at colleges worldwide
accredited by the Association of MBAs. The consistent gender imbalance applies
across the admission and study cycle - women make up 30 per cent of
applications, receive 31 per cent of offers and constitute 32 per cent of
enrolments.

Women also account for just 31 per cent of graduations overall, though there are
regional variations among students at the 161 accredited schools in 72
countries, says the report by the association's Research and Consultancy Centre.
Women are most likely to pursue MBAs in eastern Europe and Russia, where they
make up 36 per cent of graduations, and Australasia at 34 per cent.

Asia has the lowest proportion of female graduations - 27 per cent - while the
UK and the rest of western and eastern Europe stand at 30 per cent, in line with
female participation in Africa and North America.

The low female take-up may be partly explained by another finding of the study -
that the average graduation age is 34, says Jeanette Purcell, the association's
chief executive. "Most people embark on MBAs between the ages of 27 and 40,
which is when women are most likely to be having and bringing up children," she
says. "At the start of their thirties, women are often starting to think about
their domestic responsibilities."

But age alone is unlikely to be the whole reason for the imbalance. "There is an
unfortunate and misleading perception of the MBA as a qualification which exists
in a macho environment in which women are less likely to fit in. That could
scare some people off," she says.

There is also evidence that some employers are less keen to support a female
executive through the process of an MBA than they are a man rising up through
the ranks, she says. "Women talk about wanting to see more female role models in
the schools, such as a woman dean or a prominent female member of the faculty."

There is some evidence, however, that colleges can attract more women. The
Instituto de Empresa business school in Spain raised the proportion of women
students to more than 40 per cent by a targeted campaign which included half
scholarships for expatriate women.

"Women may provide a new market for schools seeking to expand their enrolment,"
says Purcell.

Looking at the international movement of students between countries, the study
found that the UK - which has the largest number of Amba-accredited MBA
programmes - dominated the market, attracting three in five of all international
student enrolments.

The study found that 37.3 per cent of students on the 142 MBA programmes at
accredited schools worldwide were foreign nationals. The rest of western and
southern Europe accounted for a further 24 per cent of the total international
student body. Only 16 per cent of international students were at colleges
outside Europe.

The highest number of students choosing courses outside their home countries
came from India, followed by western and eastern Europe, Asia and Africa. India
has overtaken China and Hong Kong as the country providing the highest number of
mobile students, says Mark Stoddard, accreditation projects manager at the
association and author of the report. "Five years ago, you would have seen
students from China as the dominant international body, but the numbers have
dropped off," he says.

"China has been very successful at setting up its own strong programmes, though
there are still a significant number of Chinese students choosing to go abroad,
looking for courses conducted in English to gain a wider experience and
contacts."

The UK remains a popular choice for Indians seeking to improve their career
prospects through a higher business and administration degree. The study of
accredited colleges showed that over a 12-month period there were 1,436 Indian
nationals enrolled at business schools abroad, of whom 1,006 were in the UK, 290
in the rest of Europe and 43 in Australasia.

Western and eastern Europe, excluding the UK, provided the same number of
international students - 1,436, followed by Africa (927), North America (880),
eastern Europe and Russia (878) and China and Hong Kong (711).

The lowest number of international students came from Australasia (70). The UK
provided 89. The diversity study was an extension of the annual Intake and
Graduation Survey that assesses demand for MBA degrees.

Students coming to the UK often cite the international mix as a reason for
choosing their courses, says Purcell. "For students from some cultures, team
work can be a challenge because people are uncomfortable at putting themselves
forward for things such as chairing a meeting or assuming authority over
others," she says. "On the other hand, more reticent students can be very
academically strong and good at the quantitative parts of the course.

"Students benefit from learning from each other about different cultures and
ways of doing business. The diversity of the intake to MBA courses provides a
unique opportunity for them to make contacts across the world."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XP


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              968 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  thestar.com

                            April 2, 2014 Wednesday

Campaign reveals lists of procedures, treatments doctors should avoid

SECTION: LIFE | TORONTO STAR; Pg.

LENGTH: 417 words


No more automatic annual blood tests; no more automatic imaging for lower-back
pain; and no more pap tests for women under 21 and over 69. ;  Canadian doctors
are being asked to cut back on these and 37 other tests, procedures and
treatments as part of a national campaign aimed at rooting out unnecessary
interventions. ;  The
http://www.choosingwiselycanada.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/04/2-CWC-Press-Relea
se-FINAL.pdf"> Choosing Wisely Canada ; campaign kicked off in Ottawa on
Wednesday morning with the release of
http://www.choosingwiselycanada.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/EN-Collection.pdf
"> lists ; from nine national medical organization and specialty groups of
interventions that doctors and their patients are being urged to think twice
about. ;

Unnecessary imaging could needlessly expose patients to radiation. Unnecessary
procedures could lead to further interventions that can be invasive and possible
cause patient's side effects. As well, these tests and procedures take time and
drain resources. ;  The campaign is aimed at starting a dialogue between doctors
and their patients and ultimately changing the "more is always better" culture.
;  "It's time for physicians and patients to have some frank and healthy
conversations about the overuse of tests, treatments and procedures," said
http://www.thestar.com/life/health_wellness/2014/02/19/doctors_to_cut_down_on_un
necessary_tests.html"> Dr. Wendy Levinson ; , founder of Choosing Wisely Canada
and chair of the department of medicine at the University of Toronto. ;  The
College of Family Physicians of Canada offered up a list of five unnecessary
interventions that includes annual automatic blood tests. The advice is not to
do routine blood tests in asymptomatic patients. ;  "This practice is more
likely to produce false positive results that may lead to additional unnecessary
testing," reasons the college. ;  It also advises against x-rays, CT scans and
MRIs for lower back pain unless red flags are present, for example severe or
neurological deficits. ;  Canada's Choosing Wisely campaign is modelled after an
American one of the same name. ;  "As in every field of medicine there are
certain medial tests treatments and procedures in specialty fields that
physicians and patients should question," said Dr. Chris Simpson, president
elect of the Canadian Medical Association, which is a lead partner in the
campaign. ;

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2014 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited

                              969 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 13, 2014 Monday

Iran daily defends appointment of science minister against MPs criticisms

LENGTH: 497 words


Text of commentary by Zia' Mesbah, secretary of the Administrative Sciences
Association of Iran, headlined "responsibility without authority?" published by
Iranian reformist newspaper Sharq on 6 January

Some MPS have entered into the domain of the Science Minister's authorities,
probably because of decisions based on "the flow of events" or possibly because
of lack of experience on social issues and regard it as their right to use the
legal tools of the MPs to gain the absolute obedience of cabinet members!

-In the science of management that has been evolving since two centuries ago and
has proven itself time and again in action, a very basic principle known as
"responsibility and authority" is included as the conditions for the success of
managers in carrying out their duties and achieving their goals.

-A simple example of this is the accountability of an elementary school
principal to the parents of the students. If the principal's authority in
choosing an educational and planning cadre and, more important still, in
choosing his deputies are restricted, he will inevitably not be able to ensure
the success of the students.

-Given this, the manner in which the recent incidents in the Majlis and the MPs'
remarks and rhetoric in relation with the selection of the former ministers of
science and higher education as deputies or advisers are very strange.

-Does Towfiqi - who is a minister without any claims and allegations, an expert
and someone who agreed out of goodwill to do what was beneficial and serve as
"deputy minister" - have any concerns other than serving the nation, the
university, the students, and the young society of our dear Iran today?

He is a person who has done his sincere best in this field despite all the
problems, obstacles, obstructions, and difficulties and has wasted a lot of time
and... - and that, at a time when after eight years of serious harm inflicted on
the Science Ministry sector, research, the scientific atmosphere, the academia,
the students, and the professors are all dissatisfied?!

-Does he and Milimonfared, who have accepted the proposal of the sincere,
hardworking, and capable Minister of Science to help him as his deputies and
advisers, have any plans other than elevating society's culture, putting the
situation in the universities and student affairs into order, and achieving the
country's scientific progress?

-The current officials in the Science Ministry are well aware the country's
scientific management tweaks and the needs of the young and progress-seeking
youths throughout Iran under the current conditions and they are acquainted with
the red lines.

-The well intended proposal is that MPs who have signed a letter, have
questioned, have shown a yellow card, and are preparing for impeachment to be
aware that the young and change-seeking and alert Iranian academia's outlook on
this sector is based on national interests and they are fair witnesses of
performances.

Source: Sharq, Tehran, in Persian 6 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              970 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           December 18, 2007 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Monkeys match humans in basic arithmetic tests

BYLINE: Steve Connor Science Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 352 words


Monkeys are almost as good as college students when it comes to simple
arithmetic, according to a study. The test was carried out on two female rhesus
macaques, called Boxer and Feinstein, which were pitched against 14 American
students with an average age of 23.

Both groups carried out the same mental addition tasks and the results almost
ended in an embarrassing draw.

The test consisted of choosing the correct sum of dots shown on two consecutive
computer screens. A third screen showed two boxes, one with the correct number
of dots formed from adding the two previous computer screens, and another box
alongside it with an incorrect number.

Scientists asked the students to choose the box with the right number of dots
without counting them individually, but just using an overall visual estimate.
The monkeys, meanwhile, were given a reward if they chose the box with the
correct sum.

In hundreds of trials involving more than 40 different problems, the students
were correct 94 per cent of the time, while the two macaques scored a
respectable 76 per cent.

But response times for monkeys and students choosing their answers were not that
different - 1,099 milliseconds for the monkeys, compared with 940 milliseconds
for the students. Intriguingly, both the students and the monkeys in the study,
which is published in the journal Science, took longer to come to a decision
when the two boxes were close to one another in the number of dots, indicating a
common approach to solving the problem, said Jessica Cantlon, of Duke University
Medical Centre in North Carolina.

"We know animals can recognise quantities but there is less evidence for their
ability to carry out explicit mathematical tasks, such as addition. Our study
shows that they can," Ms Cantlon said.

Of the confusion caused by similarly numerical boxes, she added: "If the correct
sum was 11 and the box with the incorrect number held 12 dots, both monkeys and
the students took longer to answer and had more errors. We call this the ratio
effect.

"What is remarkable is that both species suffered from the ratio effect at
virtually the same rates."

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              971 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                          September 22, 2004 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended

Gay marriage not on voters' radar screens; Local residents are more concerned
about the war and other issues

BYLINE: MARY RAE BRAGG

SECTION: Front; Pg. a1

LENGTH: 479 words


Gay and lesbian marriage might be a top social issue for some, but when it comes
to choosing a president, it falls to the bottom locally.

An informal survey conducted in Dubuque Tuesday afternoon indicated that people
have things other than same-sex weddings on their minds when it comes to
choosing between President George Bush and Democratic opponent John Kerry.

Bush opposes gay marriage, and supports a constitutional amendment defining
marriage as a union between a man and a woman. Kerry does not support same-sex
marriage but supports civil unions. He opposes a constitutional ban on gay
marriage.

<img src="thseries/presidential_perspectives/logo.gif" width="110" height="87"
alt="" border="0


Dan Herrig, of Dubuque, knows who he will vote for, but he says gay marriage
will have no impact on his choice.

"I don't think a whole lot of people think about it," Herrig said. "I think the
Iraq issue is a whole lot more important."

Jeff Ries, a Loras College sophomore from Delaware, Iowa, thinks gay marriage
could make a difference for some voters, but it is not the issue his friends are
talking about.

"The war in Iraq is the big one," said Ries, who plans to vote but remains
undecided.

Leon Metz, who lives in rural Hazel Green, Wis., said he will cast a ballot, but
gay marriage will not influence his choice.

"There are much bigger issues than gay marriage," Metz said, mentioning
candidates' integrity, honesty, leadership and character.

Jareb Steines, a Loras senior from Bellevue, Iowa, is more impressed by Bush's
stand, not so much for the president's position as for the strength of his
opinion. Bush is more decisive, said Steines, a registered Independent.

"I don't hear the same decisiveness when Kerry speaks on the issues."

Loras senior Celie Corkin, of Dubuque, said the subject of gay marriage needs to
be addressed, but it won't necessarily be a deciding issue for very many of her
friends.

Voters' ages might play an important role in how significant they think
candidates' opinions are on gay marriage, said Rose Welter, of Dubuque.

"A lot of the elderly, especially in a Catholic town, will be interested," she
said.

When it comes to amending the Constitution to define marriage, Dubuquer Paula
Hardin said that would be a waste of time for lawmakers.

"I think they could find better things to do," Hardin said.

Loras senior Jarrod Phelps, from Montezuma, Iowa, said he feels strongly about
the issue, but only to a point.

"I don't necessarily think the Constitution should be amended, but I definitely
don't support same-sex marriage, mainly for religious reasons," Phelps said.

Single mother Sara Mewbourne, of Dubuque, said gay marriage won't be a deciding
factor in how she votes. She is much more interested in her pocketbook.

"I don't care who does what as long as they keep it private," Mewbourne said.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 23, 2004

CORRECTION:


Headline:Gay marriage not on voters' radar screens

Published: 09-22-2004

The name of Loras College senior Celie Corken was misspelled on Page 2A
Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: Mug - Dan Herrig, Jeff Ries, Leon Metz, Jared Steines

                  Copyright 2004 Woodward Communications, Inc.

                              972 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            November 4, 1996 Monday

Electoral College explained  VOTE COUNTING / Old system helps govern campaign
strategies.

BYLINE: BY GRAHAM FRASER Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 784 words

DATELINE: Washington


WHEN the world watches tomorrow night to see the results of the U.S.
presidential election, many will naturally assume that whoever gets the most
votes -- Bill Clinton, Bob Dole, Ross Perot or a number of minor candidates --
will be elected.

Wrong.

The president is elected by the Electoral College, an esoteric, barely
understood institution that is formed by the results of 51 winner-take-all
battles in the 50 states and the District of Columbia.

While U.S. voters mark their ballots with the name of their choice for
president, they are, in fact, choosing a slate of electors for the Electoral
College -- with as many electoral votes as the state has Congressional
districts, plus its two Senators. In addition, the District of Columbia -- where
voters are not represented in Congress -- has three Electoral College votes, for
a total of 538.

A president must win 270 Electoral College votes to be elected. By federal
statute, these are counted by the Senate and the House on Jan. 6, after the
election -- even though the results are known on election night. If no one gets
270 Electoral College votes on election day, the president must be chosen by a
vote of the House of Representatives -- and the vice-president by a vote in the
Senate.

For the past few decades, this system has been seen as giving an advantage to
Republicans -- but this year, that has not appeared to matter.

To this point, Mr. Clinton has led Mr. Dole by substantially more than that
throughout the campaign.

Analysts point out that a president has only once won office without a majority
of the popular vote. That occurred in 1876 when Rutherford B. Hayes, a
Republican, received a one-vote majority in the Electoral College over Democrat
Samuel Tilden.

This would not be allowed to happen again. "If a president won the Electoral
College with fewer votes than his opponent, the Electoral College would be gone
in a month," said William Schneider of the American Enterprise Institution.

"He would be regarded as an illegitimate president. It would be the end of the
Electoral College. It would be a constitutional crisis, and I don't know what
would happen -- but we don't fix things unless they're broken."

The Electoral College persists to give some counterweight to the smaller states,
and it helps define presidential campaign strategies.

"The Electoral College gives a stronger sense of mandate," Mr. Schneider said,
pointing out that while Mr. Clinton received only 43 per cent of the popular
vote, he won a substantial majority of the Electoral College. "It creates the
same dynamic as the first-past-the-post parliamentary system in Canada or
Britain."

For, as is the case in the parliamentary system, a presidential candidate can
win a state with only 36 per cent of the vote when there are several candidates,
and still receive all the Electoral College votes in the state. Thus, Mr. Perot,
who got 19 per cent of the popular vote in 1992, won no states, much as the
Progressive Conservatives received only two seats after the 1993 federal
election with a similar share of the popular vote in Canada.

The Electoral College system was developed after the delegates at the
Constitutional Convention of 1787 tried and failed to agree on a number of other
approaches to choosing the president. One of the most influential figures in the
drafting of the U.S. Constitution, James Madison, suggested that Congress should
choose the president -- but there was concern about the effect this would have
on the independence of the executive branch. Popular election, another
alternative, was overwhelmingly rejected twice by the delegates.

The Electoral College emerged as a compromise. It was supposed to represent
sober second thought, a brake against mob rule or legislative corruption.

The effect has been to put a limit on the electoral influence of large states
such as California (54 Electoral College votes), Texas (32 votes) and New York
(33 votes) -- while guaranteeing a basic level of influence for small states
such as Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota and Vermont, which have three
Electoral College votes each. (For political trivia collectors, two states --
Maine and Nebraska -- award their Electoral College seats on the basis of which
presidential candidate wins each congressional district rather than as a
winner-take-all proposition.)

The result is that presidential campaign strategies are mapped out in terms of
amassing a total of 270 electoral votes rather than just racking up big numbers
in big states.

So Mr. Clinton and Mr. Dole have been playing an elaborate chess game, focusing
on key states such as California and Ohio, which both candidates have visited
again and again during the campaign.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1996 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              973 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             May 31, 2012 Thursday

Teachers' association to approach governor over fraud in Bharathiyar University
polls

BYLINE: Nandhu Sundaram

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 366 words


COIMBATORE: The war of words between the Association of University Teachers
(AUT) and vice-chancellor of Bharathiyar University C Swaminathan rose to fever
pitch on Wednesday, with the AUT choosing to write to the governor claiming that
the recent election to the senate search committee was fixed.

The AUT has alleged fraud in the search for the new VC to Bharathiyar
University. It said that the election to the senate search committee was flawed.
The allegation has serious implications as it affects the entire process
undertaken to elect a new vice-chancellor for the university.

"The VC ensured that his own man was elected as the search panel member of the
senate," said C Pitchandy, general secretary, AUT. However, when contacted,
Swaminathan said all due democratic process was followed in the elections to the
search panel of both the senate and the syndicate.

In a press release, the AUT said it will write to the governor, who is the
chancellor of the university, to reorganise the election process. The
allegations and counter-allegations are being made against the backdrop of the
election of S Saravanakumar, owner of Cumbum College of Arts and Science, as the
senate search committee member.

The election was hotly contested by the AUT, whose candidate N Chenthamarai took
only 65 votes while the candidate allegedly put up by the VC won 114 votes.

The AUT argues that the senate elections were fixed to favour the VC after the
syndicate elections were decided unanimously. The higher education secretary had
nominated the syndicate candidate to the search panel for choosing the VC and he
had been elected unopposed.

According to the AUT, Saravanakumar is too inexperienced to be the senate search
committee member, but the VC sees it as a pure battle of ballots. "In a
democracy, the losing party should not grumble. I don't understand what the hue
and cry is about. I know both candidates - Chenthamarai and Saravanakumar - very
well. How can they say only Saravanakumar will propose my name when he hasn't
even done so?" asked the VC.

The AUT also accused the VC of destroying the moral fibre of the senate and
mobilising voters to win a numbers game.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              974 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 15, 2010 Monday

ON COLLEGE: UC applications due soon

BYLINE: By Purvi S. Mody Daily News Columnist

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 714 words


Attention high school seniors: The University of California application is due
in two weeks. While Nov. 30 may seem like an eternity away, the Thanksgiving
holiday does not provide enough time to draft a standout application. So do more
than just create your account today and use these tips to complete your
application easily.

1. Check off each UC that you wish to apply to. Once the application is
submitted, it is very difficult to make changes. While this may seem obvious,
students often leave out schools with the intention of going back. Double-check
before you submit.

2. Choosing colleges for UC-San Diego can be confusing. You must rank all six
schools. The school you are admitted into determines the dorm that you live in
and the general education requirements you must fulfill. While some colleges
have strong academic programs for certain fields, you will not be limited by
your school. Do your research because once you are assigned a college, you
cannot change it.

3. Be smart when choosing a major. All UCs, except Berkeley, will allow you to
list an alternate major. This is important if you are interested in applying for
an impacted program. An impacted program is one in which there are more students
that want a spot than there are seats available. Typical impacted programs
include engineering, biology and business. The alternate major should not be an
impacted program.

4. Make sure that you have the latest version of your transcript. You will need
this for the self-reported academic section. Do not rely on memory to guide you
through. Don't forget other courses you took online or at other schools.

5. List your seventh- and eighth-grade math course if it was Algebra 1 or
higher, as well as any language courses you may have taken. These are included
in your overall course count.

6. Don't be afraid of boasting in the activities section. This is your chance to
give more color to all that you have done throughout high school. List major
positions and accomplishments. Calculate your hours accurately. You can
breakdown your activities across four categories: community service, work
experience, educational prep programs and extracurricular activities.

Work experience must be paid -- no exceptions. Community service must include
some element of volunteering. You will get five spaces for each category. If you
have more than five activities for any given category, you will need to select
the five that are the most important to you.

7. Coursework non A-G is where you will list classes that you took that are not
A-G approved. These courses often include Regional Occupational Program courses,
drafting, biotechnology and home economic courses. You do not need to list
physical education or health.

8. The UCs ask that students report all test scores -- so report all scores. The
UCs pull your highest scores for evaluation. Check your scores against your
College Board account and your ACTStudent Account if you took the ACT. If you
are an international student taking the Test of English as a Foreign Language or
International English Language Testing System, don't forget those scores. Also
make sure that official test scores are submitted from the appropriate testing
agency. You can take and submit December test scores for consideration.

9. You will get a strict 1,000 words combined for your two essays. You will not
be allowed to submit if the word count is one word over the limit. These essays
will be unlike essays you write for other schools. Most essays want students to
show and not tell. These are the opposite; tell, don't show.

10. The Additional Information section is where you can discuss any major
obstacles that have affected your academics. This is not the place to write
another essay or list additional activities. It is fine to leave that section
blank.

11. Submit the application before Thanksgiving if possible. The servers get slow
over the long weekend as applicants inundate the servers. So before you eat
turkey (or tofurkey), send off your all-important UC application and be thankful
that you get to spend a few days relaxing.

Purvi S. Mody is co-owner of Insight Education, an educational consulting firm
that helps students throughout the Bay Area to achieve their educational goals.
E-mail her at purvi@insight-education.net .

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              975 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             March 9, 2006 Thursday

Students shun university life to stay at home with their parents

BYLINE: Liz Lightfoot Education Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 390 words


STUDENTS today are more likely to live at home with their parents and less
likely to frequent the union bars, according to a lifestyle survey.

Almost 500,000 university students - 20 per cent - are turning their backs on
the traditional campus lifestyle and living at home with their parents,
according to the survey by Sodexho, the catering company, and the Times Higher
Education Supplement.

Fear of running up debts was the main reason given for choosing local
universities but for some it meant commuting up to four hours a day. Students
living at home are three times more likely to attend a new university than a
traditional or red-brick institution.

The 21st century students are also less likely to drink alcohol than their
predecessors. Twenty per cent said they did not drink at all and of those that
did, 15 per cent said they had no more than two pints of beer a week or the
equivalent.

Prof Stuart Sanderson, the associate dean of Bradford University's school of
management, said the study bore out what many working in higher education
suspected.

"There is a clear group of students who worry more about being saddled with a
huge debt when they graduate and have adapted the traditional university
lifestyle,'' he said.

"They live at home, commute long distances, work in term-time and pursue their
social life almost entirely off campus.''

It meant they were missing out on the wider aspects of a university education
while better-off undergraduates could "spread their wings and whoop it up a
little with their peers'', he said.

Joanne Meekley, 23, a final year student who took part in the survey, said she
did not feel that she was missing out by living at home.

"I socialise more with my university friends than with those from home,'' she
said.

The financial saving had not been the main reason for choosing to study at
Southampton University, her home town. "It was one of the top three universities
for environmental engineering and so I didn't have to move away,'' she said.

Miss Meekley, who lives rent-free at her parents' home, earns spending money by
working for 10 hours a week as a barmaid and through paid university placements
in the summer. She said she would graduate after five years with no debts.

The survey found a third of students doing paid work during term-time, half of
them for between 11 and 20 hours a week.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              976 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday

Hailing a wife: mating habits of the Irish male revealed

SECTION: HEALTH; News Focus; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 569 words


Undying romantic love is not the main driver behind Irish men choosing their
future wives   instead it s down to timing and stability, writes  MICHELLE
MCDONAGH

'MEN ARE like cabs, when they're available their light goes on. They awake one
day and decide they're ready to settle down, have babies, whatever, and they
turn their light on. Next woman they pick up, boom, that's the one they'll
marry. It's not fate, it's dumb luck!'

This infamous quote from  Sex and the Citycharacter Miranda could actually be
quite accurate, according to new research into the dating and marriage patterns
of Irish men.

It seems that undying romantic love has not been the main driver for Irish men
in choosing their future wives. No, the decision to settle down and get married
is often made for much more practical reasons such as timing and financial
stability.

Dr Paul Ryan, assistant lecturer in sociology at NUI Maynooth, is writing a book
based on the letters sent to agony aunt Angela McNamara, whose column appeared
in the  Sunday Pressfor 17 years.

He presented a paper entitled How I Met Your Mother: Exploring Changes in Mate
Selection in the Lives of Irish Men 1963-80at the 38th annual conference of the
Sociological Association of Ireland at University College Cork over the weekend.

In this paper, Dr Ryan looks at the extent to which the practices of mate
selection changed when the traditional structures of community, class, education
and family began to change in Ireland in the 1960s.

As well as reading the letters sent to McNamara, Dr Ryan interviewed men who
read her columns about their reasons for dating and marrying the women they
married over that period.

'All the literature in sociology shows that prior to 1960, marriage was all
about farming issues and dowries with the man's parents, particularly his
mother, having a much greater say over the wife her son chose,' says Dr Ryan.

'As we moved into the great modernist era of the 1960s, we were supposed to have
got rid of all this and the perception was that people were choosing their
partners for love, but my research threw up a few contradictions.'

Dr Ryan found that love was not a main driver in proposing marriage for the men
he interviewed. Timing was a huge factor.

Just as Miranda said, if that marriage light was not on, they would not pop the
question. Waiting until they felt they were financially stable was another
factor in the man's decision to get married.

'That concept of heroic love was not really there. One man told me that as his
wife would be moving in with him and his parents, he had to choose somebody his
parents would get on with,' says Dr Ryan.

'Another man broke up with his fiancee who was seven years older because his
mother did not think it was a good idea.

'Although the literature would say family became less important, my interviews
found the men never married somebody their parents did not approve of.'

Dr Ryan points out that this unromantic basis for making the commitment to marry
persists into the modern sociological literature.

In her book  Talk of Love, Berkeley sociologist Ann Swidler writes of marriages
that are the outcome of steady friendships in many cases or of couples who
decided to marry after they 'grew on each other'

'On the one hand, we are sold this incredibly romantic notion of how couples
meet and marry through the media and movies, but in reality, it's often quite
different,' according to Dr Ryan.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              977 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 20, 2016 Saturday

Washington: Is Compromise More Likely When Women Are Part of the Decision?

LENGTH: 783  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: US National Health Information Center has issued the following news
release:



 When women are part of a decision-making team, compromise is likely. If it's
all up to men, on the other hand, the "extreme" option will often win.





 That's according to a new study that tested people's buying decisions, when
alone or paired up with another person.



 In general, the researchers found, when a man was teamed with another man, they
typically went for the extreme choice -- the "biggest, heaviest" grill, instead
of a lighter version, for example.



 That was not true, however, when a man decided on his own, or when at least one
woman was part of the team. In those cases, the middle-of-the-road choice often
won out.



 What's more, the study found, men often looked down on other men who wanted a
more cautious choice -- such as a less risky stock market investment.



 They didn't judge women for such moderation, however.



 It all suggests that when men work with each other, there's pressure to go
all-or-nothing, said study co-author Hristina Nikolova, an assistant professor
of marketing at Boston College.



 Men can feel the need to prove their masculinity when they're among other men,
Nikolova said. And since the compromise option is typically associated with
"feminine norms," she said, men together may be prone to rejecting it and opting
for the extreme.



 That dynamic is not at work, however, when a man is deciding alone. "So a man
choosing a restaurant alone might go for a place that's medium on price and that
offers a reasonably good meal," Nikolova said.



 "That's a choice that won't create a lot of waves or break the bank. But if two
men are in charge of choosing a restaurant together, they're more likely to opt
for either an opulent, expensive place or a true hole-in-the-wall," she said.



 The findings, published in the Journal of Consumer Research, are based on a
series of experiments with 1,200 college students and another 673 online
participants. They were asked to make decisions about buying various things,
such as toothpaste, tires, printers, grills, and whether to buy risky or safe
stocks. They were asked to purchase these things alone or with a partner.



 In the grill scenario, half of the male-male pairs picked the "extreme" option
(the biggest, heaviest product), compared to only 15 percent of men who chose
that option when they were alone.



 Few women picked the extreme, whether they decided alone or with another woman.
Most often (almost three-quarters of the time), they selected the
middle-of-the-road option. There was a similar pattern when men and women chose
together.



 Therese Huston is a faculty development consultant at Seattle University. She
said the new findings are interesting because they highlight the dynamics of how
men and women make decisions with a partner, and not only on their own.



 And the implications could go beyond fairly simple, low-stakes decisions such
as buying a grill, according to Huston, who was not involved with the study.



 For example, she said, what happens when a male patient and male doctor are
making a decision about treating prostate cancer? It's a disease with a number
of treatment choices, including the conservative "watchful waiting" approach or
more aggressive management.



 "Could this same dynamic play out between male patients and male doctors?"
Huston said. "It's an interesting question."



 The study findings would also seem to contradict the stereotype that women
typically make "emotional" or "intuitive" decisions, while men are the rational
ones, according to Huston.



 It's a stereotype that other studies have doubted, she noted. In fact, Huston
said, there is evidence that when men are stressed, they tend to "go for the
home run" -- rather than opting for the middle-of-the-road choice.



 The study has limitations, however. Participants were making decisions with
strangers, not people they knew, Huston pointed out. Plus, real-life decisions
typically have a more complicated context compared with a controlled experiment.




 Still, Huston said men might want to be aware that their decision-making can be
subconsciously influenced by the presence of another man. "It may change what
looks attractive to you," she said.



 Nikolova agreed. "Being aware of these tendencies to be extreme might help them
figure out what they really want -- and not make a choice just for the sake of
proving their masculinity," she said.



 Like Huston, she said the findings have implications beyond grill-buying: The
same dynamics could very well play out in the workplace, or in politics.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              978 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                      Khaleej Times (United Arab Emirates)

                           November 30, 2017 Thursday

The route to becoming a medical professional

LENGTH: 665 words


Becoming a doctor is a great career choice but requires good preparation. Here's
the lowdown:

Vandana Mahajan, Director of Futures Abroad
(Supplied)

Medical education isn't an easy career choice. It takes a lot to be able to
study medicine and excel in it.

Choosing the right medical school is almost as important as choosing the right
major. There are great medical schools around the world, giving prospective
doctors many options to complete their degrees. But which country is the best to
study medicine? To add an increased level of difficulty, many schools only
accept local students, and the schools that are open to international students
only accept a small percentage of those who apply. Those who are interested in
one of the top schools in the U.S. are in luck though. Most of the top U.S.
universities accept foreign students.

There are several great universities worldwide providing options for studying
medicine. Harvard, Stanford, and Yale are among the best in the world. England
also offers some of the best medical programmes at the Imperial College of
London, the University of Cambridge and the University of Oxford.

Studying medicine overseas can provide students with an invaluable experience
and quality education.

Which country is the best to study medicine?

There are a lot of Eastern European and Asian countries, such as Europe, China,
Philippines, Kyrgyzstan, Caribbean and Georgia that have been alternative
destinations to study MBBS. Students have been going to these destinations for
decades now, and making successful medical careers. However, Europe has been a
favourite destination for most students, mostly because of the quality of
education, direct entry in MBBS, immigration laws and cost of pursuing medicine.

Various courses offered in Europe are:

. Medicine: Medical course lasts six years; released title is a Doctor of
Medicine (MBBS)

. Dental: Dental duration of the course is five years; released title Graduate
Dentistry (BDS)

. Paediatrics: Course lasts six years; released title is a Doctor
(Paediatrician)

. Nursing: Course lasts two years; released title is a Nursing degree

. Orthopaedic Dental: course lasts two years; released title is a Bachelor of
Dental Orthopaedics

. Postgraduate studies: The study duration is two to three years

Germany, France, the Netherlands, Sweden, Norway and Denmark are first entry
programmes and have created a special policy to attract foreign students. The
tuition fee is lower in public funded universities. You have the option of
staying for a fixed period after completing your degree.

Malaysia is also an attractive destination for pursuing MBBS with a direct entry
programme after high school. It is one of the most economical destinations for
pursuing medicine with pathway programmes to Canada, U.K. and Australia. Under
the transfer programme the student does the first two years at medical school in
Kuala Lumpur and then finish schooling at one of 26 partner medical schools in
Australia, the U.K., Ireland, Canada or the U.S.

Getting ahead

While you are in school, there are several ways you can add value to your
resume. Good grades are only one piece of the puzzle. Employers are often
swamped with hundreds of applications for every job, and recent graduates wind
up on the bottom of the pile unless their resumes shine. Here are some tips for
beating the competition:

1. Build your network

2. Be a part of Social networking - be visible

3. Join medical student clubs and organisations

4. Volunteer

5. Cultivate interesting hobbies

6. Get published

Landing a residency position after you graduate can be challenging, but with a
strong academic record, an established professional network, and details on your
application that make you more interesting and attractive, you'll really stand
out from the competition.

For university selection and application guidance, contact Vandana Mahajan,
Director of Futures Abroad, Tel: 04-551 2620, E-mail: info@futuresabroad.com

http://imgs.syndigate.info/28/44/8/151198742837.jpg



LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


   Copyright 2017 Khaleej Times - Galadari Printing and Publishing Co. L.L.C.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              979 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                             August 5, 2016 Friday

Students reflect on their futures

BYLINE: Mark Foster

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 184 words


SIXTH form students have been inspired to reflect on the future at a conference
to help broaden their thinking on the next steps towards a career.

Representatives from universities and businesses, joined college alumni, for a
Future Inspirations conference hosted by Richmond School and Sixth Form College.

The event, which aims to help students make the best decisions about their
future, saw more than 150 sixth formers attend workshops and seek advice from
education specialists and employability experts.

The college's careers and employment manger Liz Mannion said: "The careers event
is designed to help raise the aspirations of our Year 12 students when thinking
about applying for higher education courses, apprenticeships, or employment, to
help them gain an understanding of the next steps available to them."

Workshops included interview techniques, CV preparation, future proofing
employment prospects, choosing a university, personal statement writing, the
UCAS process, choosing the right course and student finance as well as talks on
a wide variety of different career and eduation possibilities.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              980 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 3, 2005

Squeamish men blamed for rise in Caesareans

BYLINE: ANDREW TOLMIE

SECTION: ED_SC1_04; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 339 words


WOMEN who choose a Caesarean over natural birth for the sake of convenience are
often dubbed 'too posh to push'.

Now midwives have identified another trend that is pushing the Caesarean rate
higher men who are too squeamish to watch.

They say too many fatherstobe are encouraging their partners to have assisted
deliveries because they are afraid of the pain, mess and noise that accompanies
natural childbirth.

The number of women opting for Caesareans in Scotland has jumped from 6 per cent
of births to 9 per cent over the past ten years, with 4,600 women choosing
surgery in 2004.

The figures have prompted the Royal College of Midwives to campaign for women to
return to giving birth naturally and to ignore pressure from partners.

Phyllis Winters, a midwifery team leader at Montrose Community-Maternity Unit,
said women were being influenced by the wishes of their menfolk and by
celebrities such as Victoria Beckham choosing surgery.

She said: 'A lot of couples take decisions about childbirth together and men in
particular feel very wary.

'They are frightened about seeing their partner in pain and about what can go
wrong. As a result, they often prefer to go to the consultant-led unit where
they perceive there is a higher level of care. They have to understand that by
going to a midwife-led service, they are not taking a risk.' She added: 'Women
need more positive role models for natural births and perhaps then we will see a
change in the way society views what is a natural life event.' A joint survey of
800 men by parental support group Fathers Direct and the National Childbirth
Trust found a third felt powerless during childbirth, while most said it was
difficult to see their partner in pain when they could do nothing to help.

One Glasgow obstetrician said: 'A lot of women ask for Caesareans as they are
scared of labour and feel surgery is a quicker way to go, but the risks involved
are higher than in natural birth.

'We try to help them make an informed choice.'

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              981 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 6, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Sharp rise in caesareans 'should be investigated'

BYLINE: Georgie Keate

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 483 words


A rapid rise in the number of mothers in Scotland giving birth by caesarean
section should be investigated, a senior midwife has said.

Gillian Smith, the director of the Royal College of Midwives Scotland, said that
the Scottish government should commission the research after a report from the
World Health Organisation (WHO) recommended that women should only be operated
on for medical reasons.

According to ISD, the health statistics body, the number of women choosing to
have a caesarean in Scotland has risen by more than 80 per cent in 14 years -
from 3,887 in 1998 to 7,021 in 2012. Planned caesareans account for 12 per cent
of all births in Scotland and cost the NHS £1,700, compared with £750 for a
labour birth.

Ms Smith said that Scotland's health boards should justify the number of
caesareans and prove that they were being carried out for the right reasons
rather than being an alternative option to conventional birth.

"Women get a lot of bad press about being 'too posh to push', but is this
actually correct? Why are women choosing to have caesareans?" she said.

"We need to know what is behind the rise in caesarean sections because there is
a great deal of concern about it. It is a major abdominal operation and it would
be wrong if it's being given to women who regard it as a default option to avoid
a painful labour. We need to know that they are being done for the correct
reasons, and I think health boards should be asked to explain the reasons for
every procedure. "We do not really know why woman are afraid of labour and I
think we need to find out more about women's attitudes towards how they give
birth." In April, WHO warned that caesareans could increase the risk of
disability and death and advised its use only when labour posed medical health
risks.

A record number of women have had caesareans this year, with NHS Greater Glasgow
and Clyde delivering 39 per cent of babies using the operation. Ms Smith said
that many maternity wards said this reflected an attempt to decrease the number
of stillbirths.

An increase in obesity was also thought to be a factor.

A spokeswoman for the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists said:
"Caesareans are a safe medical procedure but, as with any intervention, there
are risks involved. All doctors must ensure that women are informed about the
risks and benefits of procedures undertaken and the options. Women must have
access to good-quality information so that they can make informed decisions."

Maureen Watt, the public health minister, said that the government was carrying
out a review of maternity services. "We're committed to supporting women to have
as positive a pregnancy and labour as possible, with interventions where
appropriate," she said. "Caesarean sections are safe for both mother and baby,
and there can be a number of good clinical reasons why they may be recommended
for some expectant mothers."

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              982 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                             June 26, 2014 Thursday

Career counselling the key to a glorious future;
Counselling plays an important role in admission process for new students. It
helps them understand who they are and what do they want out of their education
and their career

BYLINE: Purnima Pahuja

LENGTH: 593  words


Counselling plays an important role in admission process for new students. It
helps them understand who they are and what do they want out of their education
and their career

The admission season across the country is at its peak. As admissions to
undergraduate courses and post graduate courses reach their ends in different
colleges enthusiasm and anxiety among students everywhere is also at its peak.

In under graduate courses especially students are preparing for the next stage
in their academic life and the first in their professional life. Key to a
successful run would be their choice of subject. It is thus vital that this
all-important decision is made with due consideration to a students' aptitude
and score.

Mostly, students coming for admissions come with a confused mind about their
career choice and which subject to opt for. Thankfully, to simplify things for
students, colleges provide counselling at their helpdesks and student centres.

Counselling plays a very important role in the process of admissions for new
students. It helps students understand who they are and what do they want out of
their education and their career to some extent. It also helps individuals
determine the steps they need to take and develop a plan of action to achieve
their life goals.

It is important to understand that choosing a wrong subject leads to a
pressurised academic and, consequently, professional life. Counselling gives a
clear vision for choosing right subjects and further helps in going for the
right career options.

Director of Applied Institute of Behavioural and Allied Sciences at Amity
University, Jaipur, Prof SS Nathawat while talking to dna about the importance
of academic and career counselling in a student's life said, "Counselling in
colleges for career options should not be made mandatory. It should be continued
till the time a student is not clear about her/his future."

Talking about the kind of simple counselling tests colleges can adopt, Nathawat
said, "The Holland Occupational Themes is a theory of careers and vocational
choice based upon personality types. Each category describes a particular
personality type, like realistic people are doers, social people are helpers,
the enterprising are good at persuading, etc. With tests using this theory an
individual can decide the best career options for himself since it will be based
on his natural personality. Colleges must try tests based on such theories."

Such counselling tests becomes increasingly important in light of instances
where students take up courses thinking they "like" the subjects, but are not
able to cope with the curriculum. Incorrect decisions made under peer pressure
or parental pressure at times prompts students to take extreme measures which
can be detrimental to their life.

Counselling committees in colleges which look after the likes and dislikes of
students are a must.

The counselling head of the Maharani Girls' College of Jaipur Dr Mukta Agarawal
said that they directly talk to students and not their parents. "We guide them
about subjects to be taken as per their interests. However, we do not take any
aptitude test. We try to simplify the process bby suggesting students which
subjects to opt for better career opportunities."

Isha, a student who is going to opt for BCom said, "I was very confused about
which subjects to choose. Though I have a commerce background, I was still not
sure about taking commerce as my subject in graduation. But the counselling desk
at the colleges helped me."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              983 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                             August 26, 2012 Sunday

MUDDLE

BYLINE: MARK LANDSBAUM Register columnist, The Orange County Register

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. H

LENGTH: 1172 words



HIGHLIGHT: Presidential election may turn on decisions of Americans who aren't
particularly attracted to either candidate.


Over the next two weeks, the Republicans and Democrats officially choose their
nominees for president, which brings to mind this: Democracy is a funny thing.
Funny as in weird.

In what other realm of human endeavor do we ask everyone to join together to
decide what to do about critically important stuff, as we will for the November
election?

Imagine being on a jetliner where the pilot dies, then holding an election in
the air to decide what to do. Let's say 100 people favor appointing the co-pilot
to take over, but 101 people vote to have the smiley-face flight attendant grab
the controls instead, mostly because her jokes were funnier, and she had some
nasty things to say about the co-pilot.

Or, God forbid, imagine you were diagnosed with a brain tumor. Would you poll as
many people as possible to get a consensus on which surgeon should operate? Or
would you ask a select few with more informed opinions?

Let's say you've avoided airplanes on which pilots drop dead, and you are spared
the grief of a brain tumor. Instead, you must decide what to do with your life's
savings for retirement. Will you fetch your clipboard and survey every person
you can find at the grocery checkout stand, walking their dogs in the park and
sleeping under a local bridge? No, probably not.

Then why is it that, when deciding national policy on the economy, jobs, health,
education, welfare, war and peace and, yes, even financial planning for old age,
it's automatically assumed to be a good idea that everyone who has drawn a
breath for at least 18 years should have a say on the matter?

Such is democracy. The nation's founders understood the inherent limitations.
That's why they set up a complex hybrid system that checks and balances the
tyranny of the majority through elaborate republican representative mechanisms.
This season that elaborate scheme will play out when what begins with individual
voters very democratically each choosing a single candidate ultimately results
in a convoluted republican representative device that would do Rube Goldberg
proud - the Electoral College.

Needless to say, the concept of one-man, one-vote is considerably blurred by the
time Electoral College electors do the actual choosing of a president after
voters' ballots are counted, considered and even, as is entirely legal, not
considered, as the case may be.

"Get out the vote!" seems so American. So patriotic. But admit it: so unwise. Or
do you really believe the appeal of a smiley flight attendant and the uninformed
majority's choice of a brain surgeon are good ways to go?

A political blogger recently posted the patently obvious: "[T]urnout will be so
critical to this year's election."

But it's not just how many turn out to vote that is "so critical" to every
election, but who those people are. Much was made four years ago that Barack
Obama was vastly preferred by college-age voters, 18 to 21 years old. But those
young people are four years older today, and perhaps four years wiser, if not
four years more jaded by what has transpired since. In their place is a new crop
of 18-to-21-year-olds, who were not even eligible to register to vote the last
time we chose a president.

A hopey-changy campaign by a personable minority candidate, who tweeted and had
a Facebook page, whipped up much youthful enthusiasm in 2008. That was then.
This is now.

This presidential campaign may be as polarized as any in memory. As we enter the
two-week period when Republicans and Democrats walk through their choreographed
nomination rituals, the rhetoric already has risen to the lofty level of, "We
think you stink even more than you think we stink!"

Alas, once again, the fate of the nation will be determined, not so much by the
feverishly devoted at the ends of the political spectrum, but by what we
endearingly refer to as the "muddled middle." Pollsters commonly refer to them
as "independents," as in unaligned with political parties, or as the
"undecided," as in clueless.

If this doesn't bother you, maybe it should. Considering the saturation level of
political, economic and related news engulfing America 24/7, is it even
plausible that people haven't had enough information yet to arrive at an
informed decision?

What do we know about these people? Many who consider themselves "independents"
are anything but. Half of independents "act very much like partisan Republicans
or partisan Democrats," says a Washington Post-Kaiser study. Those who are
"genuinely independent and active participants in the political process
constitute only a sliver of the overall electorate" - about 5 percent, according
to the study.

Five percent isn't anything to sniff at. Elections can be swung by smaller
margins. Ask Al Gore and George Bush.

What of the truly independent and undecided? If, after essentially a
three-and-a-half-year election campaign, are they unaligned and uncommitted out
of a sense of principle - or a lack of conviction? Are they prone to decide the
way our hypothetical airliner passengers chose, by opting for the smiley flight
attendant's personality? Will the latest gaffe or promise or accusation turn
these voters hither rather than yon?

Then consider this: Seven of 10 independents prefer compromise between the
political parties rather than confrontation. At least the rabid and devoted at
opposite ends of the spectrum hold principled positions. These "independents"
seem amenable to the latest compromise, whatever it looks like.

When King Solomon was confronted with two women, each claiming to be the mother
of the same baby, he wisely resolved the matter by declaring: "Cut the baby in
half."

But threatening to cut the baby in half was not really a compromise. It was a
tactic, designed to prompt action based on conviction, which it did. Unlike
Solomon, modern political compromises actually cut the baby in half.

Principled people don't forgo principle because the muddled middle is willing to
settle for less in order to make everything copasetic. As my late, former
colleague Alan Bock used to remind us, if one party behaves badly and the other
party stupidly, it's conceivable they can join together to do something stupidly
bad, and call that bipartisanship.

You might call it compromise.

The muddled middle may opt for cutting the baby in half, as if something is to
be gained when, in fact, much can be lost.

It could be worse. About half of those eligible to vote in November won't bother
to cast ballots. They appear to be not merely muddled.

Of the 40 percent of eligible U.S. citizens who won't vote, a 58-percent
sampling insisted to pollsters that politics does make a difference in their
lives. Sixty-four percent insisted that they keep abreast of what's going on in
government. But when asked, 61 percent could not name the vice president,
according to the survey by Suffolk University.

A 43-percent sampling of those who won't cast ballots told pollsters that if
they didvote, they would choose Barack Obama. Only 14 percent of them would vote
for Mitt Romney.



mlandsbaum@ocregister.com or 714-796-5025

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Associated press photos
Associated press photos

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved

                              984 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 23, 2013 Saturday

Choosing the next pope

BYLINE: Reading Eagle, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 984 words


Feb. 23--For the first time in 598 years, Roman Catholic cardinals will pick a
new pope while his predecessor is still alive. And questions abound.

So do the mysteries surrounding the traditions of the Vatican conclave of
cardinals that will elect a pope under the unusual circumstances set in motion
Feb. 11 when Pope Benedict XVI announced that he would resign as of Thursday.

Matt Kerr, director of communications for the Allentown Diocese, which includes
Berks County, agreed to address questions on customs for a new pope's
installation with the help of some other Catholic and media sources.

Gerald S. Vigna, associate professor of theology at Alvernia University, also
provided perspective on some of the questions.

Q: Because there is no deceased pope to grieve, must the cardinals really wait
for a 15- to 20-day mourning period to elapse before the conclave?

Kerr: A Vatican spokesman was quoted as saying the conclave could start before
March 15 if all the cardinals are already in Rome. That decision might not come
until after Benedict's departure and lies in the hands of the cardinals, he
added.

Vigna: Historically, the 15- to 20-day period was there because of the
difficulties of travel in previous times. Circumstances have changed and, in
this case, there is no mourning period for a pope.

Q: Who will be in charge of the Vatican (church) between the resignation
Thursday and the day the new pope is installed?

Kerr: Under a 1996 document prepared by Pope John Paul II, the cardinal with the
title camerlengo, currently Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone, runs the Vatican state
and is in charge of the church's property and money in absence of the pope.
During the period between popes, the dean of the College of Cardinals, currently
Cardinal Angelo Sodano, presides at the daily meetings of the cardinals who run
the church on an interim basis. Sodano is older than 80 and so won't have the
right to vote in the conclave. His place will be taken by the most-senior member
of the College of Cardinals, Cardinal Giovanni Battista Re, according to reports
from Religion News Service.

Q: Normally, the pope's chamberlain seals the deceased pope's quarters and
preserves or destroys his personal effects. What is going to happen to the
pope's papers?

Kerr: I believe the pope's personal effects will move with him to the monastery
that will be his post-resignation home.

Vigna: As for the pope's official pontifical papers, I think they would stay in
the Vatican.

Q: It is a custom to smash the deceased pope's ring with a special silver
hammer. Will the retired pope still wear his ring?

Kerr: A Vatican spokesman said the day after the pope's resignation was
announced that objects strictly connected with the papal ministry will be
terminated. Among these is the papal ring, used as a seal for documents.

Q: We know that retirement quarters are being built for the pope at the Vatican.
What will his title be? Will he still be Benedict or will he revert to Joseph
Ratzinger?

Kerr: The Vatican's senior communications adviser, Greg Burke, said Benedict
would most likely be referred to as bishop-emeritus of Rome. Pope Benedict XVI
has not discussed publicly what he would like to be called and the new pope
might have a say in that. An Associated Press story said unnamed Vatican
officials believe the retired pope could still be addressed as Your Holiness,
much as former U.S. presidents are still called Mr. President.

Q: When the retired pope dies, will he be entombed with other popes under the
altar of St. Peter's Basilica?

Kerr: As Pope Benedict XVI is still very much alive, there has been no public
discussion of his final resting place. But, having been pope, Benedict would
still be entitled to entombment in the underground crypts beneath St. Peter's
Basilica, much as retired bishops are placed in crypts in their cathedrals when
they die.

Q: What will the retired pope wear daily?

Kerr: I would imagine it will be clerical garb, but whether it's the white
cassock of a pope or a priest's black cassock we may not know. Pope Benedict XVI
has indicated he intends to live a life of prayer in the monastery on the
Vatican grounds. There might not be any public appearances.

Vigna: At the least, I think it will be the red cassock of a cardinal. Overall,
many of these questions point to the unprecedented nature of this situation. We
really don't have all the answers. When the last pope resigned, he resigned in
order to heal a schism. An earlier pope, Celestine V in the Middle Ages, was a
monk who resigned to return to his contemplative monastic life.

Q: What will he do?

Kerr: In his resignation statement on Feb. 11, the pope answered that question:
"With regard to myself, I wish to also devotedly serve the Holy Church of God in
the future through a life dedicated to prayer."

Vigna: Joseph Ratzinger is one of the more important theologians and scholars in
the Catholic Church. He may well wind up reading, writing and publishing. He is
a very solid scholar.

Q: Will he be paid?

Kerr: Italian media outlets quoted by the International Business Times reported
Pope Benedict XVI will be paid a pension of $3,340 a month, the pension usually
paid to retired Italian bishops. The pope is the bishop of Rome, which qualifies
him for a pension.

Q: Will Benedict be eligible to vote for his own successor?

Kerr: The 85-year-old retired pontiff will not take part in the conclave.

Q: Because no candidate for pope is allowed to preside at the conclave, would
Benedict be allowed to preside?

Kerr: From the day the pope's resignation was announced, the Vatican has said he
will have no role in the conclave or the election of his successor.

Vigna: Although he will have no formal role, Pope Benedict's influence surely
will be felt in the conclave.

- Compiled by Bruce R. Posten

___ (c)2013 Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) Visit the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.)
at readingeagle.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130223-RE-Choosing-the-next-pope-20130223

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RE


                          Copyright 2013 Reading Eagle

                              985 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   Niagara Gazette (Niagara Falls, New York)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 15, 2009 Monday

EDUCATION: Area colleges doing fine with admissions

BYLINE: Joe Olenick, Niagara Gazette, Niagara Falls, N.Y.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 717 words


Jun. 15--Although fewer students nationwide are attending their college of
choice, according to a survey released Tuesday, local colleges are doing just
fine with admissions.

The survey, conducted by the National Association for College Admission
Counseling, was made up from responses by 658 public and private high schools.
According to the survey, about 75.7 percent of public schools and 67.8 percent
of private schools said the number of students who will not be going to their
first choice of school for college decreased this year.

Community colleges are becoming more popular, according to the NACAC survey.
About 62.9 percent of public schools and 21.3 percent of private schools said
more of their students are choosing community colleges over four-year schools.
The number of students who also chose community colleges stayed the same in 34.2
percent of public schools and 73.9 percent of private schools.

Locally, that statistic could be supported by Niagara County Community College.
Kathy Saunders, director of admissions at NCCC, said the community college was
doing very well with the number of student applications for the fall.

"We have a very dramatic increase in applications," she said. "We are up about
1,700 applications this year, as compared to last year. So we have approximately
a 15 percent increase and we do expect a significant increase in enrollment as
well."

The survey said there wasn't a big change in how many students are looking at a
variety of schools. A significant minority of public (37.6 percent) and private
(40.1 percent) high schools reported more applications per student; but most
schools reported that the application-per-student ratio was about the same as
last year.

Part of the NACAC survey also took a look at colleges. According to the survey,
public colleges were more likely to see their yields go up -- that is, the
percentage of accepted applicants who enroll. The opposite was true for private
colleges. Money and the economy are playing a role, as significant minorities of
public and private colleges saw increases in the percentages of students
accepted through early decision who declined to enroll. Most said inadequate
financial aid was the reason. And many more colleges -- both public and private
-- saw increases in fall to spring retention rates than saw decreases.

Michael Konopski, director of enrollment management at Niagara University, said
the school is seeing a slight drop-off in applications. He pointed out two
possible reasons. First, it is still early in the year to forecast who will be
attending in the fall; and last year's incoming freshman class was the largest
Niagara University has had in recent memory.

"We are down slightly from that," Konopski said. "We're forecasting about a 3 to
4 percent decline."

Annually, Niagara's incoming freshman class averages about 710 to 730 students.
Konopski said Niagara's student retention rate looks good and should be similar
to last year.

But there are two surprising trends with transfer students and those living on
campus. "Transfer numbers look good and may be better than last year," he said.
"But there is a larger number of students living on campus. That's something to
note, considering the economic situation."

FORGOING THE 'DREAM SCHOOL'

-- PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOLS: About 75 percent said the number of students not going
to their top college choice increased

-- PRIVATE HIGH SCHOOLS: About 67 percent said the number of students increased

-- STAYED THE SAME: About 21 percent of public high school and 31 percent of
private schools said the number of students stayed the same when choosing to
attend their top college choice

-- DECREASED: About 3 percent of public schools and 1 percent of private schools
said the number of students decreased who chose not to attend their top college
choice

-- National Association for College Admission Counseling

To see more of the Niagara Gazette or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.niagara-gazette.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, Niagara Gazette, Niagara
Falls, N.Y. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints,
email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send
a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee
Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090615-NF-EDUCATION-Area-colleges-doing-fine-with-admissions-0615

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NF


                                 Copyright 2009

                              986 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                            September 4, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Sex and drugs and stocks to hold

BYLINE: Kevin Orland, Bloomberg

SECTION: CALGARZ BUSINESS; Pg. E4

LENGTH: 315  words


A person's choice to make financially risky decisions appears to be influenced
by a part of the brain that also has been linked to sex drive and drug
addiction, according to a study to appear in the journal Neuron.

Researchers at Stanford University in Stanford, Calif., used a magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) machine to monitor the brain activity of 19 volunteers
as they completed a game in which they invested money in either stocks or bonds
and monitored their returns.

The researchers found that an area of the brain called the nucleus accumbens
showed increased activity before the subjects made a financially risky decision.
The accumbens, which is located near where the brain connects to the spinal
cord, has been linked in animal studies to motivation for sex and drug use, said
Brian Knutson, a Stanford psychology professor who helped lead the study.

"Activation in this region seems to be related to thinking something good is
going to happen and getting excited about it," Knutson said.

The findings suggest that when casinos surround their guests with potential
rewards such as free liquor and inexpensive food, they are stimulating the
accumbens and predisposing customers toward taking financial risks, according to
the study, which is to appear soon in the journal.

The study found that a brain region called the anterior insula showed similar
activity before the subjects made an unnecessarily conservative investment
decision.

Institutions could use the research to help ensure investors make more rational
decisions and aren't as influenced by emotion, said Camelia Kuhnen, a Stanford
researcher who co-wrote the study.

"Economists don't want to think emotion plays a role in these decisions, such as
choosing an investment or choosing a career," Kuhnen said.

"We show emotion does play a role, and if you look at the brain, you'll
understand better what people are going to do."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Agence France-Presse; Risky investing is linked in the brain to sex and
drugs, study says.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Business

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              987 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                             April 10, 2011 Sunday

Rating one's ability to attract talent

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: CAREER

LENGTH: 992 words


The second managerial competency I'm choosing to discuss after leadership --
which I covered three columns ago -- is attracting talent. While on the subject,
I would be remiss if I didn't mention the outstanding accomplishment by one of
the area's great leaders, Jim Calhoun and his University of Connecticut men's
basketball team. As an old friend and office-mate of Jim's from our days at
Northeastern University, I believe he displays all of the necessary attributes
of an exemplary executive and, on-topic, his ability to recruit top talent is
unquestionable. Witness Lowell's own Alex Oriakhi. This young man attended the
Tilton School and became an integral component of the Huskies' national
championship run.

For management-level professionals, their ability to recruit exemplary talent is
paramount to the overall organization's success. As with college basketball,
most so-called amateur sports and certainly in Corporate America, choosing
winners is critical.

Let's take a look at a standard human resources definition of the behavioral
competency known as "attracting talent": Identifies recruiting needs,
effectively uses recruiting processes, hires the right people the first time;
uses behavioral interviewing approach to assess candidates.

As you've undoubtedly noticed, there is a heavy emphasis on the competency-based
behavioral interviewing model. I'm confident most forward-thinking companies
have adopted some sort of similar assessment tool when an open requisition
prompts hiring managers to engage in the practice of securing the most qualified
and credentialed talent. The simple truth is that if a business entity hires to
a competency model then manage to that same model... success is imminent.

So if you are preparing yourself for an interview as a mid-level manager,
director or for that matter, a vice-president opportunity, expect to encounter
these queries. Most often, the hiring executive looks for an individual who can
identify recruiting needs. Usually this exercise encompasses several meetings
with financial analysts, human-resource professionals and, sometimes, the
competitive marketing group in order to generate a requisition. Note: In this
environment, companies are particularly cautious to justify every approved
requisition. Sending the recruiting arm of the business on wild goose chases for
positions that will never be filled can be an extremely inefficient use of one's
resources.

One questions to expect in this competency category and appropriate responses
are: "Give me an example of how you identified and addressed a long-term
staffing need?"

One could respond: "While meeting with the competitive marketing team, along
with the financial analysts, we all agreed there is market share to be had for
our products and services. We then went through the necessary internal channels
to secure a cost-justified requisition. Once approved, the wheels were put into
motion."

Another area of expertise involves the effective use of hiring. You could be
asked: "Walk me through the cradle-to-grave process you implemented to arrive at
a solid hiring decision?"

A winning response might be: "Beginning with the formulation of a set of
competencies identified by an outsourced business psychologist after
Beta-testing a wide variety of existing personnel, we arrived at the several
competencies critical to success in this space. Using the model suggested for
interviewing, we compiled a decision by committee format and a hire, do not hire
or consensus scenario to be arrived at per completion of the process."

Another possible query could be: "Describe the best hiring decision you ever
made and why was it such a good decision?"

To this you may respond: "Following a prescribed methodology and the candidate
meeting all of our expectations during the interview process, me being the
decision-maker I went above and beyond the 'traditional' and focused on an
intangible. With several quality individuals to choose from, one had something
no other potential hire had... he was a scratch golfer. This mattered because
the internal clients were sales professionals renowned for 'killing' their
number and also burning up the fairways on a Friday afternoon. This person fit
like the proverbial glove... a golf glove, in this case, and this eventually
earned high praise from the divisional vice president for my hire and me!"

The obvious next logical question would be: "Describe the worst hiring decision
you ever made? What happened? How could it have been avoided?"

This is a tough one, at best, because it somewhat admits a failure. Try: "With a
desire to hire quickly for fear of losing the requisition due to market
pressures, I moved a bit too hastily. Even though early data would suggest the
person to be extremely competent, I misjudged the person's initiative. Stemming
from previous accomplishments, it appeared to be the right fit; however, once
on-board, the salient question was if the individual was relying on past
successes and had most likely lost his edge. I'm not sure this could have been
identified during the interview process, but I made sure the error was corrected
and began a 'quiet search' for his replacement. Result: A swift recovery and a
terrific new hire."

Next: "Provide an example of hiring the right people the first time."

Answer: "Utilizing the tools at our disposal and customizing a competency-based
behavioral interviewing strategy, we were able to narrow the list of possibles
to three, all of whom were sold on the opportunity and our company. The result
was scoring the number-one draft choice, so to speak, and the early-on
projections of success are very favorable."

Ed Adamowicz, CPCC, is chairman and head coach of Total Package Professional
Coaching ( www.totalpackageprocoach.com ), a Boxboro-based provider of career
coaching, resume writing, interview training and corporate consulting. Readers
are invited to submit questions via e-mail to coached@the-totalpackage.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              988 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          PNG Post-Courier (Australia)

                             April 30, 2013 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

MP Marape moots Highlands uni

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 231 words


THE National Executive Council will this week consider a proposal for the
establishment of a new university for the Highlands region in Southern
Highlands.

Acting Education Minister and Minister for Finance, James Marape said this upon
his return from Madang last Monday.

Mr Marape was in the tourist town to meet with various authorities including
Divine Word University President Fr Jan Czuba, Education Secretary Professor
David Kavanamur and others.

Minister Marape said Ialibu in Southern Highlands Province had been chosen as
the site for the new university because of three main reasons.

"The first reason why we chose Ialibu is because it is in a more central
location in the upper highlands region with more than two million people living
within the periphery. Apart from those living in the Southern Highlands
Province, other students from neighbouring highlands provinces as well as those
from Gulf, and Western Provinces can easily travel there to attend school.

"The second reason for us choosing this site is because the landowners have
willingly made land available for the State to build this higher learning
institute," he said.

Minister Marape said the third reason for choosing Ialibu was because the chosen
site would be only 60 kilometres away from where the LNG's fibre optic cable
would run. This would enable the university access to internet and other online
facilities.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PTC


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              989 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Oklahoman

                            November 14, 2004 Sunday
                                  City Edition

Resources can ease students' challenges

BYLINE: Sarah Kahne, Staff Writer

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 06

LENGTH: 565 words


Keeping up grades, taking SAT and ACT tests, filling out mountains of paperwork
for admissions and financial aid, choosing a school and a major -- the elements
necessary to make that leap into college life -- can overwhelm anyone.

Resources to help both parents and students prepare for college seem to be
everywhere, though. School counselors, Web sites, college advisers and a myriad
of books outline every step necessary to prepare for college.

Experts say starting early is the key to making the process smooth for everyone.
Some even suggest parents start talking to their children about college during
elementary school. But most counselors and advisers say planning time starts in
the eighth grade, when students begin registering for high school.

Wayne Smith, a counselor at Southeast Specialty School, also recommends that
students in eighth grade apply for the Oklahoma Higher Learning Access Program.
Children from families earning $50,000 or less a year at the time of
registration could receive a portion of their college tuition paid at a state
institution.

By 10th grade, Smith said, all students should take a practice ACT test and fill
out a career interest survey. Using the students' academic scores and their
interests, Smith said he tries to help students figure out what they want to do
after graduation and what they can do in high school to get there.

Start early He said many students still register for school as undecided majors,
but if students know their particular interest area, it's easier to pick the
college that provides the best fit.

"Taking these steps doesn't lock them into one area, but really just gives them
guidelines for success," Smith said.

By the end of the junior year, Smith said students should be whittling down
their list of possible colleges, taking the ACT and SAT and perhaps even
planning campus visits. He said students should also begin requesting
applications and financial aid information from the colleges that interest them.

"You don't want to write to every college," Smith said. "It's good to make sure
they (colleges) offer the degree program you're interested in and tuition is
affordable."

The veteran counselor also recommends that seniors try to apply early.

Parents need to fill out the Free Application for Student Financial Aid during
the senior year. Experts suggest filing by January so parents will know how much
financial aid is available before a college is chosen.

Smith said too many parents and students wait too long to apply for financial
aid and admissions.

"Some (students) even end up going to junior college until a spot opens up at
their school of choice."

Scholarships Deadlines for scholarship applications often are different than
college admission deadlines. Smith said parents and students should begin
looking for scholarships during the senior year.

Both Oklahoma State University and the University of Oklahoma have resources
available to help students decide whether their school is the right fit.

Admissions directors from both schools encourage parents and prospective
students to visit the campuses.

Patricia Lynch, director of admissions for OU, said her advice to students is to
apply early and follow application instructions.

Don Pitchford, an associate director for admissions at OSU, said preadmission
interviews and tours help students learn about the college and make the process
of choosing a school and a major easier.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COLLEGE BOUND 2004 SPECIAL SECTION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2004 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved

                              990 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Guelph Mercury (Ontario, Canada)

                            December 1, 2014 Monday
                                 First Edition

Are financial planners a necessary part of your future?

BYLINE: David Friend, The Canadian Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 535 words


Good financial advice can be hard to find, but does every Canadian really need
to hire their own financial planner?

Everyone has some form of assets and liabilities, but it's the complexity of
their personal balance sheet that should be a determining factor, says Moshe
Milevsky, an associate professor in finance at the Schulich School of Business
at Toronto's York University.

If your financial situation is as simple as putting aside money for retirement
and aggressively paying off your mortgage, there's not necessarily a need to
bring in another party, he said.

However, for many Canadians, going solo on your financial future probably isn't
worth the risk, suggested Eric Kirzner, a professor of finance at the Rotman
School of Management in Toronto.

"I do like the idea of avoiding an adviser, but I'm still in the old-fashioned
camp of leaving that for a person who knows enough about finance," he said.

In an ideal world, every Canadian would take a college or university course to
broaden their knowledge of personal finance, Kirzner said.

"They would learn how to pick less-expensive investment products that do the
same things as other products," he said.

"They'd avoid certain types of investments that financial advisers love to sell
which are more in their interest than their client's interest."

For example, some exchange-traded funds cost less to operate than mutual funds
that do the same thing, Kirzner said.

Some structured products with guarantees can be replicated with stocks and
treasury bills that have a combined lower cost structure.

However, getting Canadians enthused about their finances is an uphill battle.

"A lot of people spend less time choosing a financial adviser than they do
researching the purchase of a new vehicle," said Greg Pollock, president and CEO
of Advocis, an organization that represents Canadian financial advisers and
planners.

"That new vehicle loses value when you drive it off the lot. When you're
choosing a financial adviser you're choosing someone to assist you with your
financial management for maybe the next 20 to 30 years."

Beginning the hunt for an adviser can be one of the hardest steps, but a little
preparation can go a long way.

Consider that anyone can label themselves a financial planner, which means that
paying attention to their credentials is essential. Not all advisers are alike
and, depending on their certification, they can offer a variety of services.

One of the most important designations to look for is CFP, or certified
financial planner, listed after their name which means they adhere to the
international standards that include continuing education to maintain their
certification.

Other designations recommended by Pollock include the chartered life underwriter
(CLU) for estate planning, certified health insurance specialist (CHS) and the
chartered financial consultant (CFC) which has advanced training in wealth
accumulation and retirement planning.

Advocis hosts a handy resource for Canadians looking to get some traction in
their hunt for an adviser: ouradviser.caouradviser.caEND.

The website covers many of the basic questions that can get the wheels rolling,
and provides search engine to gather a list of advisers in your area.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              991 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Deming Headlight (New Mexico)

                              June 3, 2013 Monday

Two DHS grads shoot for the stars

BYLINE: By Terry Meyers, for the Headlight

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 659 words


Turning a new chapter in each of their lives, Deming High School graduates Tel
Pickett and Velia Moran have new adventures ahead of them. Both are leaving
home; Pickett is headed to Las Cruces and Moran will be on her way to
Massachusetts. Leaving family and friends can bring along some anxiety and mixed
emotions about what the future may hold.

Discipline down the road


Pickett has chosen to attend New Mexico State University, majoring in mechanical
engineering.

"My goal is to get a degree that would allow me to afford a family and to have a
job I enjoy in order to make it my career," Pickett said.

Pickett expects college to be quite different from high school although he has
gotten some of his electives out of the way through an Eastern New Mexico
University Dual Credit program. The program was offered through DHS.

"I know college is going to take more discipline on my part," Pickett said. "At
DHS, I had teachers on my back to get things done, and in college it is all up
to me to get it done."

Pickett is choosing not to stay in a dorm or rent an apartment. He has chosen to
purchase a home near the college because he is a tall man and the dorm rooms
have too small a bed for him. He also realizes his investment down the line
could be sold for a profit.

When asked if Pickett had any anxiety about leaving home, he remarked: "Going to
Las Cruces - I am still close to home." Over the years I have spent a lot of
time on the college campus with 4-H and FAA, so it is like a second home to me,"


Pickett is looking forward to this new chapter in his life. He is choosing to
take one day at a time in order to succeed with his career goals, as well as his
personal goals. He is not sure he will return to his hometown. Pickett plans to
follow his career where ever it may take him.

"I'm open to whatever opportunities come my way," Pickett said. "Mom doesn't
want me to leave home, dad is excepting it, and well, they know I'm still close
enough to home.

"I have worked hard most of my life, so my parents taught me about being
responsible, and for that I am grateful. These lessons I will carry to college."


A career in medicine

Moran will be headed to Williamstown, Massachusetts where she will attend
Williams College while living in a dorm. She will be studying Biology for
pre-med. Her goal is to go on to medical school to pursue a career in either
forensics or family medicine.

"The scholarship I received expects me to stay in their dorms," Moran said. "I
would have chosen a dorm anyway, because I feel like it will help me be more
involved,"

Moran is excited to start a new chapter of her young life. She is looking
forward to meeting new people and to see other places.

"I'm a bit nervous leaving DHS and it's a bit depressing." "My friends and
teachers have become my family,"

Moran moved from the Mexico to Deming at the age of 11 where she has lived ever
since.

When asked if Moran was feeling any anxiety she remarked. "I don't think it has
hit me yet." "Anxiety for me is three months down the line because I am trying
not to think about it.

Moran understands college is going to be much more demanding than her years at
DHS.

She chose to move away because she felt it would help her grow and the challenge
would be a learning experience in itself. While at college, Moran plans to
continue her love for throwing the javelin. She won a District 3-4A championship
in the event and competed at the Class 4A state level.

Moran does not believe she will return to Deming after her schooling, but she
does believe she will return to New Mexico.

"I might come back to Albuquerque to start my career," Moran said. "I would like
to be close to my family." I know my family is excited for me, but are sad to
see me go.

Moran and her older sister were raised by her mother, as a single parent. She
credits her academic drive to the work ethic her mother exemplified in having to
find jobs to make an honest living to support her children the bext she could.


LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Terry Meyers - Headlight Photo Tel Pickett is planning to enter New
Mexico State University in the fall to major in mechanical engineering. Pickett
is a 2013 graduate of Deming High. processed by IntelliTune on 02062013 162438
with script 11*New - Defaut Skin-SUB
Terry Meyers - Headlight PhotoS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2013 Deming Headlight, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved

                              992 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              May 23, 2016 Monday

Fitchburg State holds 120th commencement exercises

LENGTH: 926 words

DATELINE: New York



 Boston:Fitchburg State University The state of Massachusetts has issued the
following news release



 Fitchburg State held its 120th commencement exercises, spring ceremonies in
May. Approximately 850 undergraduate and graduate degrees were awarded by the
university this spring.





 The commencement address at the undergraduate ceremony on May 21 was delivered
by educator and alumna Barbara Wilson, who graduated from Fitchburg State in
1980. Wilson is the co-founder and co-president of Wilson Language Training,
which works with teachers, school systems and universities to improve literacy
for all students. Wilson programs are in school districts large and small in all
50 states.



 Barbara Wilson delivers the commencement addressIn her remarks, Wilson urged
the graduates to be mindful of the power they have to shape their environment,
not only as stewards of the planet, but as members of a community.



 "As you enter the workforce full-time, the environment where you work will be a
major part of your daily life experience - in fact - it will likely fill the
highest percentage of your waking hours," she said. "You will have the
opportunity to raise up that environment, or help tear it down. When issues or
problems arise between co-workers, you can escalate or de-escalate. When gossip
and negativity are spoken, you can pass those on, or walk away. These things
matter immensely. The way to make our world great, is by creating a great world.
That is by choosing words thoughtfully, by choosing actions that are positive
and presenting yourself with class, not crass."



 Wilson said as she began her own work career she sought like-minded people. "At
our company, we have changed the saying, 'The devil is in the details,' to 'Love
is in the details.' And it is. Whatever you are doing, don't do half-heartedly.
Do it with great care and diligence, and yes, love."



 Wilson was awarded an honorary degree from Fitchburg State President Richard S.
Lapidus during the ceremony.



 The undergraduate ceremony also included the presentation of the President's
Medal to Mount Wachusett Community College President Daniel M. Asquino, the
state's the longest-serving president in public higher education.



 President Lapidus and Mount Wachusett Community College President Asquino"Dr.
Asquino has led Mount Wachusett Community College with honor and distinction for
nearly 30 years," Lapidus said. "This presidential tenure is significant not
only for its length, but for the scope of its achievement. Under President
Asquino's leadership, Mount Wachusett has seen a tremendous growth in
enrollment; several satellite campuses have opened; and the number of programs
available to its 12,000 students has been greatly expanded. This era of growth,
in size as well as stature, is attributable to the vision of a born educator.
President Asquino has embraced his college's role in the life of the region,
creating limitless opportunities for students of all ages - from kindergarten to
adults - to experience the life-changing power of education."



 Lapidus also credited Asquino for his leadership in Mount Wachusett's
commitment to veterans and green energy initiatives, along with his long record
of civic engagement.



 Matthew Walsh delivers valedictory addressThe valedictory address was presented
by Matthew Walsh of Merrimac, who graduated with a degree in English Studies.



 "Remember your time here at Fitchburg State as much as you turn your back to it
and move forward with your lives," Walsh said. "It has shaped you in more ways
than one, and you'd be remiss to forget the good and the bad that have gotten
you to this point. &hellip; As you step up on this stage and receive your
diploma, think of what type of person you want to be in the coming years.  Look
at your accomplishments and the skills that you've amassed here at this
institution, and imagine the brightest of futures to house them in.  Take a
moment and realize that picture in your head as you're sitting here.  As you
step down from this stage, you're the judge of whether or not that becomes a
reality."



 Ross Caputi received the Graduate Student Leadership Award from President
LapidusAt the graduate commencement ceremony on May 19, Ross L. Caputi of
Lunenburg was recognized with the Graduate Student Leadership Award. In his
remarks, Caputi urged his fellow graduates to use their sharpened intellects to
ask challenging questions. Caputi served in the Marine Corps and has become
active in antiwar efforts.



 "As people with intellectual vocations, we are uniquely situated to make an
intervention into state power and state violence," Caputi said. "I know, we
never asked for this. We also have the unlucky burden of being born into a
period of human history when the world is in the midst of a number of global
crises, several of which threaten the very survival of our species; but none are
insurmountable, if we could only educate people about these issues and mobilize
them. Our generation has been saddled with responsibilities like none other
before us.



 "The famed philosopher and linguist, Noam Chomsky, wrote eloquently in 1967 of
the responsibility of intellectuals, imploring them to 'speak the truth,'
'expose lies,' and to challenge power and authority," Caputi continued. "His
words are no less apt today, because our society can no longer afford the luxury
of not knowing. And here we are, receiving advanced degrees, with urgently
useful skills."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmedions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              993 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                              June 21, 2013 Friday

Perplexed students seek 'help' in choosing right course and college;
Expert advice Counsellors at colleges flooded with queries about courses, career
prospects

BYLINE: Punita Maheshwari

LENGTH: 276  words


Students gearing up for their college life are confused over which course and
institute to choose. Counselling committees at colleges play a crucial role
during this period. Manipal University is presently conducting 'engineering
counselling sessions' on its campus. Richa Arora, registrar and member of the
university's counselling committee, said students want to have clear picture of
career prospects in every field.

"Students nowadays are not looking at only traditional courses. They want to
take risk with new courses. They want job guarantee. Besides, students also keep
an eye on cut-offs and a variety of courses on offer at an institute," Arora
said. Students often face a dilemma when it comes to choosing between
job-oriented courses and the ones that interest them.

Shivi Saxena, a member of counselling committee at IIS University, said,
"Students have huge expectations from undergraduate courses. They have general
queries about courses. Parents usually come and ask to 'pinpoint the 'most
professional course' of the present time. We try to convince them to go for the
course that relates to their child's aptitude."

There are other queries too from students.

Subodh College authorities said students are showing more inclination towards
commerce subjects this year. "Commerce courses are promising. There is a fair
fight for seats among the city lads. Unconventional courses are for those who
have a 'backup plan'," said a student submitting his admission at Subodh
College.

Aditi Tiwari, a member of counselling committee at Subodh College, said,
"Besides courses, students enquire about minimum attendance mandatory for
appearing in the exam."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              994 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      North Shore News (British Columbia)

                          November 21, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Look beyond the usual

BYLINE: Kathy Lynn, Special To North Shore News

SECTION: PARENTING; Parenting Today; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 762  words


Choosing toys for kids has become a minefield.

Besides finding toys that are fun, that are developmentally appropriate and for
older kids that are cool, we are now concerned about safety.

The huge toy recalls from major manufacturers have raised anxiety levels in
parents and grandparents as well as early childhood professionals about the
safety of the toys in our homes and daycares. Previously we believed that buying
from a reputable company ensured safety. But that's not the case, so now where
do we go?

Today's Parent magazine has been publishing a great list of top toys for kids
for almost 10 years. Their evaluation process takes almost a year to complete.
First, 1,500 toys are sampled and tested by 75 volunteer families. Then they are
carefully checked for safety. And this year all the recommended infant toddler
and preschool toys were sent to the McMaster University occupational and
environmental health laboratory in Hamilton to be tested for lead. For a listing
of this year's best toys pick up the November issue of the magazine or go online
to Todaysparent.com/toys.

When I want to discuss play or toys I immediately contact Terri Cody, program
adviser and instructor in early childhood education at Lethbridge Community
College. She knows her stuff and when my kids were little they waited with great
anticipation to see what would be in the Christmas package from their Aunt
Terri. It was always something different and fun. We spoke about the challenges
toy buyers would face this year after all the recalls.

Her suggestion is to also look to non-traditional places for gifts. Places like
Science World, the Vancouver Aquarium and Vancouver Art Gallery have great gift
ideas. If you're travelling and visiting zoos or museums, keep your eyes open
for fun gifts. There are also art supply stores.

In the Lower Mainland we have many great independent toy stores with locally
made products. And for your imaginative kid (and that includes most of them),
don't forget Just Imagine on Broadway. Another source for good toys can be all
the local craft fairs. So look beyond the usual. Another benefit to this
approach is you won't be dealing with the huge shopping crowds.

So you've got your list. You have an idea about the kinds of activities that
interest each of the little ones on your list. What now? There are other
considerations.

Good toys can be played with without constant adult supervision. Kids should be
able to play on their own and have fun.

They also need to be sturdy enough to prevent breakage. A good toy is durable.
If the toy is popular it will be played with constantly, it will be subjected to
all range of uses and may be dropped, thrown or forgotten outside. Will it
survive?

Toys should be flexible. Kids should be able to use a toy in many ways and make
it fit with his fantasy of the moment. And a toy that can grow with the child is
fabulous.

Kids need different kinds of toys to meet different play needs. They need
physical play such as balls, intellectual play such a toys which need sorting
and classifying, they need social play such as playing house or board games and
they need fantasy play such as dress-up.

They need different kinds of play. They need to get outdoors to run, jump, climb
and roll. They need some time with friends. And they also need some time to play
alone. This is important in developing creativity, curiosity, imagination and
self-reliance.

Their absolutely favourite toy is the easiest one to provide. They love to spend
time with their parents. This doesn't mean you ignore the previous types of
play, but be sure to spend some time with your kids. We often make the mistake
of assuming this means we need to actually play with them. But kids love to work
with us. So, for them, sorting socks out of the dryer or ripping lettuce for a
salad is lots of fun.

Finally, a word on educational toys. That is an oxymoron. All toys, all play and
all experiences are educational. Our children are constantly learning from
everything they do and see. Some toys, however, are academic in that they are
focused on teaching specific academic skills. They aren't necessary although
they aren't necessarily bad. Kids will learn about science or math or
communication skills from everything they do. So, now head out to finish off
that Christmas shopping.

Kathy Lynn is a parenting speaker, broadcaster columnist and author of Who's In
Charge Anyway? and But Nobody Told Me I'd Ever Have to Leave Home. For
information, visit her website at www.ParentingToday.ca. Questions for Kathy can
be e-mailed to nsnews@parentingtoday.ca

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: The vast array of toys in the marketplace makes choosing a plaything that
is safe and enjoyable a challenge for many parents. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 North Shore News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              995 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                            October 30, 2016 Sunday

why tebow is a role model

BYLINE: Tim Noonan

SECTION: /EDITORIAL/CONTENT/SCMP/SPORT/GENERAL; spt back .pgl; He Has Spent A
Great Deal Of Time And Money To Helping The Poor And Built A Hospital In The
Philippines; Pg.6

LENGTH: 717 words


Yes, he is pious and openly so. For some that is a non-starter. Live and let
live, you do your thing and I will do mine. Ironically, this is also the mantra
of one of the most polarising figures in US sports. Tim Tebow is living his life
on his own terms. He has a message of caring and empathy for one and all and if
this is of no interest to you then you go your way and he will go his, no hard
feelings.


Seemingly quite a simple and agreeable sort, the reaction to him is just the
opposite. One of the most decorated college football quarterbacks of all time,
the former Heisman trophy winner could never translate that success to the NFL.
A hulking, physical presence, he is hardly the stereotypical professional
quarterback and bounced between four teams before being released this past year.
Coaches saw his tremendous athletic ability and tried to convert him to another
position but he was not having it. Along the way, he had a few memorable NFL
moments and quickly became a popular culture phenom renowned for "Tebowing",
taking a knee to give thanks to the Lord after scoring a touchdown. Everything
he does attracts an outrageous amount of media attention and he knows it.


Born in Manila to American missionary parents, his stated modus operandi is to
make the life of others less fortunate better. "I think the greatest form of
love is choosing the best interest of another person and acting on their
behalf," he said.


Of course, choosing the best interest of another person might be construed as
manipulative and this could all be empty rhetoric as well if Tebow was not
actually living his words. He has devoted a great deal of his earnings and time
towards his foundation to help the disadvantaged and built a modern hospital and
shelter in a remote part of the Philippines that is reportedly home to over
2,000 needy orphans.


Despite an armada of cynics, at this stage at least Tebow appears to be exactly
what he says he is and now that his football dream is over, he is pursuing
another dream: professional baseball. A high school star, he gave up baseball to
concentrate on football but claims his love for the sport is still there and
after going through a series of drills for pro scouts recently, the New York
Mets decided to take a flier and sign him to a developmental contract. At 29
years of age, it's a long shot at best but not surprisingly Tebow is far from
daunted.


"It's amazing when you do something for the love of it," he said. "I am so
passionate about the game and pursuing it and playing every day is just so much
fun."


Many, however, are not so passionate about his baseball foray. "He looks like an
impostor pretending to have talent he does not possess," ESPN baseball insider
Keith Law wrote, before adding that: "Everyone involved in the decision should
be embarrassed."


Mets general manager Sandy Alderson was far from embarrassed. "This is
entertainment," he told The New Yorker. "It's not the cold war."


When early returns on Tebow's baseball debut were less than favourable another
ESPN analyst whose occupation is provocation, Stephen A Smith, told Tebow it's
natural some people are saying he should go back to football regardless of his
position.


"It's fine if people look at me and say that's what I should be doing," he told
Smith. "But they're not me. I might be able to go do pretty well [at another
position]. But if it's not in my heart, why I am going to do that?"


There, right there. Take a second to digest the simplicity of that logic. Smith
certainly did and he had no retort. How could he? Baseball will decide if Tebow
has a future in the game. No one else.


With his high public profile and positive nature, talk has inevitably turned to
a career in politics and Tebow actually turned down an invitation to speak at
this summer's Republican convention.


One can only hope, for now at least, he resists the urge to become part of the
open sewer that is politics today because the unfettered vitriol would only beat
the empathy out of a man who has never spoken an ill word publicly about anyone.


That in itself is inspirational and while some of us watch sports to see
wondrous achievements we are not physically capable of, others watch sports to
see tales of perseverance and fortitude.


Inspiration and perspiration. Tim Tebow is more than a bit of both.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              996 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 7, 2015 Saturday

Living on campus - A great option for returning students

LENGTH: 518  words

DATELINE: PUEBLO


Colorado State University-Pueblo has issued the following news release:


Living in the residence halls on campus is a significant milestone in a
student's collegiate experience. However, it isn't just for first year students.
Even though all public colleges and universities in Colorado have a one year
"live on" campus housing requirement, an increasing number of returning CSU
students are choosing to live on campus knowing the convenience and benefits.

Choose to spend next year on campus.

'Where will I live?'

The buzz among students on campus at this time of year is "Where will I live
next year?"  As students sort through a multitude of choices, a worthy option is
to stay on campus. Starting in early February and continuing through the end of
March, returning students have the option of choosing priority spaces on campus
for the following year.

Take the quiz: Which CSU residence hall should YOU live in?

With several brand new residence halls, modern refurbishments and enhancements
to existing halls, and great on-campus support and amenities, students are
realizing that there's a lot to be said for living on campus and keeping life
more convenient. When considering finances, with "controlled rent" and an
all-inclusive pricing, on-campus living is that much more appealing -
particularly when room rates for returning students have been frozen for next
year. Additionally, CSU is meeting returning students' needs to live among other
upper class students, by providing opportunities to stay close to their friends
and select groups of rooms in close proximity to one another.

With new apartment complexes popping up all over town, CSU is staying
competitive in a rapidly evolving housing market. "What separates the living
experience for students on campus versus off campus is the wealth of resources
available instantly.  Residence Life staff members are trained to assist
students in their growth, development and campus connections," says CSU Director
of Residence Life Laura Giles. "Living in the residence halls benefit students
emotionally, academically, and socially. As a result, students are more likely
to be retained by CSU if they live on campus, and students who live on campus
have higher GPAs.  Research has shown this to be true for their first-year and
beyond."

National research repeatedly indicates that students living in residence halls
are found to have more developmental gains, higher GPAs, and greater
satisfaction with their academic experience. But nothing tells the story like
satisfied students. CSU student Seamus Quinn moved off campus after his first
year, then decided to move back on campus the following year. Living off campus
made him appreciate what he was missing - the on campus connectivity among
students who live and learn together. "With so many people with different ideas
and outlooks on life living in the same place- you share those ideas and you all
grow together. And it creates a wonderful living environment," says Quinn.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              997 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                             August 12, 2001 Sunday
                                  Late Edition

Plenty of choices for a lifetime of learning;
TERTIARY OPTIONS

BYLINE: MIRANDA WOOD

SECTION: SUPPLEMENT; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 637 words


THE choices in post-school study have never been greater.

Universities, TAFE, colleges and apprenticeship and traineeship programs offer
courses and subjects to cater for everyone.

Trends in tertiary study show that university education is still the traditional
choice for NSW school-leavers.

Of the 62,000 students who sat the Higher School Certificate last year, 58 per
cent applied to study at a NSW or ACT university in 2001, with 78pc of
applicants receiving an offer.

This is more than the previous year, when 56pc of HSC students applied for
university placement.

The University Admissions Centre (UAC) received more than 29,000 applications
from non-Year 12 applicants last year and 23,200 of those received offers.

TAFE NSW enrolments are also going from strength to strength, with one in 10
people in NSW studying through TAFE.

About 461,000 students are enrolled in TAFE's 1,200 courses this year compared
with 424,000 in 1997.

TAFE deputy director-general Robin Shreeve said people would drift in and out of
different tertiary institutions over their working life.

"People will have several jobs in their lifetime and it's critical they have
choice," he said.

In-demand TAFE courses for school-leavers include construction, information,
visual and performing arts, food and beverage, hospitality and tourism.

Between 1997 and 2000 there was a 9pc drop in enrolments in engineering and
other related technologies and a 14pc drop in business and administration.

For students aged over 40, business and administration is one of the most
popular courses as well as food and beverage, tourism and community, personal
and family health care.

Shreeve said people were choosing TAFE for a number of reasons.

"The courses are a bit shorter, we have some fantastic facilities and also
people are never far from a TAFE campus whether you are in Sydney or regional
Australia," he said. "You can study on campus, you can study at the workplace or
you can study online.

"Because our courses are developed in co-operation with industry, we get
positive work outcomes for our students."

About 27,700 university graduates enrolled in TAFE NSW last year to get
practical training.

"With changes in technology and the way that jobs are moving, people constantly
need to update their skills," he said.

The Federal Government's new apprentice and trainee scheme, New Apprenticeships,
has also been a success, finding more than 250,000 people on-the-job training in
more than 500 occupations.

Other widely-used tertiary options include the Open Learning Australia program,
which offers about 200 undergraduate university units and 200 TAFE units in
business studies, science and technology, humanities and languages.

Choosing a path

University

The University Admissions Centre (UAC) is accepting applications for
undergraduate courses at universities in NSW and ACT from now until September
28. UAC will still accept late applications up until February 6, 2002, but they
are subject to late fees and conditions. For more information, phone UAC on 02
9330 7200 or visit www.uac.edu.au. TAFE NSW

Course applications close for all high-demand courses for semester one, 2002, on
January 4. For more information, phone 131 601 or visit www.tafe.nsw.edu.au. New
Apprenticeships

New Apprenticeships is open to anyone 15 years or older but applicants have a
better chance of gaining an apprenticeship if they have completed Year 12,
completed vocational studies at school or have a part-time job in the industry
they want to pursue. For more information, phone 1800 639 629 or visit
www.newapprenticeships.gov.au. Open Learning

Open Learning Australia (OLA) has about 30 institutions around Australia,
offering about 200 undergraduate university units and 200 TAFE units. No entry
requirements apply. For general enquiries phone 03 9903 8900 or visit
www.ola.edu.au.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUS: HALLS OF LEARNING: Even after university, students are choosing
to study further.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2001 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved