                               1 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                              July 9, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

UMF rankings boycott sets no trend in Maine;
The 'Best Colleges' list is too subjective and turns admissions into a status
contest, UMF says.

BYLINE: BETH QUIMBY Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 892 words


The University of Maine at Farmington has decided to boycott the U.S. News &
World Report rankings of higher-education institutions, but officials at other
Maine colleges that usually make the popular list say they're not ready to bail
out of it.

UMF President Theodora Kalikow announced last week her university no longer will
fill out the U.S. News survey, which asks college presidents to rank their
peers.

In doing so, the public college joined a group of private college presidents in
the Annapolis Group, an organization of 125 private liberal arts schools, who
have said they no longer will take part in U.S. News' rankings because they
believe they are too subjective.

''We have to stop,'' Kalikow said.

At issue is the national news magazine's popular ''Best American Colleges,''
which since 1983 has ranked the nation's more than 1,400 accredited universities
and colleges based on various factors such as graduation rates, SAT scores and
admission rates, and provides other information such as tuition costs.

The publication is based partly on surveys of college presidents who are asked
to rate other institutions. The rankings are widely used by students and their
families to make decisions about where to apply. Also, highly ranked
institutions often use them as a marketing tool.

The rankings have come under fire by some critics in recent years for turning
the college admissions process into a status contest. Others defend the rankings
for providing valuable consumer information. Some college admissions officials
credit the rankings with doubling their pool of applicants.

Brian Kelly, editor of U.S. News, defended the rankings, saying they provide
valuable consumer information. He said his magazine would continue to rank UMF
and every other institution with or without their participation. The rankings
for 2008 come out next month.

''This is a journalistic enterprise. We do not need their permission,'' Kelly
said.

UMF, which is not a member of Annapolis, and some members of the Annapolis Group
have received favorable rankings. UMF consistently has won good reviews for the
past decade. Last year the school snagged the No. 2 spot in its category, ''Top
Public Comprehensive Colleges - Bachelor's, in the North.'' UMF also has used
the rankings to market itself.

Kalikow said UMF will continue to provide the magazine with publicly available
data, such as enrollment and college entrance scores.

Colby, Bates and Bowdoin colleges, all members of the Annapolis Group, also fare
well in the rankings, consistently placing among the 25 best liberal arts
colleges in the country. None of the three has taken a position on the boycott,
but all of them are talking about it and will decide whether to continue to
participate in the rankings before next year's surveys must be filled out.

''We have some time to have a thoughtful discussion on the issue,'' said Doug
Boxer Cook, spokesman for Bowdoin. The Brunswick college is ranked seventh-best
liberal arts college this year. Bowdoin does not use its U.S. News rankings in
its marketing efforts, he said.

He said the college supports the Annapolis Group's stance on the rankings.
Members of the Annapolis Group have agreed to help develop an alternative to the
U.S. News rankings.

Stephen Heacock, spokesman for Colby College in Waterville, which was ranked
20th in the best-liberal-arts rankings, called the U.S. News rankings process
''not very transparent.''

Bates College in Lewiston, ranked 23rd among best liberal arts colleges, issued
the following written statement: ''We have participated with college guide
requests because we have considered it a service to parents and prospective
students who consult these guides.''

Some Maine high school guidance counselors hailed UMF's boycott.

''That is a bold step,'' said Karen Lechner, guidance director at Falmouth High
School. Lechner said the rankings encourage students to make college choices
based on prestige and competitiveness of admission rather than whether the
college is the best fit.

She said people pay more attention to admission rates than to more important
data, such as retention rates or the size of their students' college loans.

Some college students said the controversy will probably have little effect on
the popularity of the magazine's rankings among prospective students.

Joseph Muscarella, 19, a Boothbay Harbor summer resident, said he used the
rankings to find the school of his choice, the Morrie School of Business at the
University of South Carolina at Columbia, which he plans to enter this fall. He
said he doubts that the rankings make the process more competitive.

''America is always going to be competitive, with these rankings or without,''
he said.

Marta Hurgin, 20, a junior at the University of Southern Maine, said she would
be happy to see the rankings fall from favor. ''They make getting into college
too competitive. The integrity of the academics gets lost,'' said Hurgin, who
used the rankings in her college search.

She spent her first year at Wheaton College, which is ranked 55th-best liberal
arts college, then transferred to USM, which has a much less prestigious ranking
. USM is listed with the ''University Master's North Third Tier,'' which is not
ranked.

However, she said, USM is a much better fit for her.


Staff Writer Beth Quimby can be contacted at 791-6363 or at:

bquimby@pressherald.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          September 16, 2017 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                 SOONER EDITION

SWARTHMORE, PENN, PSU  DO WELL IN 2018 COLLEGE RANKINGS;
VARIETY OF STANDARDS USED TO COMPILE LISTS

BYLINE: Christopher Huffaker, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: EDUCATION; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 380 words


College rankings were published this week by U.S. News &World Report, which
releases annual nationwide rankings, and Niche.com, a Pittsburgh-based company
that ranks schools by state.

U.S. News places American colleges in dozens of categories, including best
liberal arts colleges and best national universities. In its new 2018 ranking,
Swarthmore College, the University of Pennsylvania and Pennsylvania State
University rank highly on several lists.

U.S. News uses a formula based on graduation and retention rates, academic
reputation according to higher education administrators and high school
counselors, faculty ratios and pay, selectivity, financial aid and alumni giving
rates.

According to those standards, Swarthmore is tied for third in the ranking among
liberal arts colleges, the University of Pennsylvania eighth on the "national
universities" list, and Penn State 14th among public universities. Swarthmore's
position is unchanged from the 2017 ranking; Penn moved up one position from
last year.

Penn also ranks 13th for "best value," based on almost half of its students
receiving needs-based grants. That list is dominated by major private
universities with large endowments, with five Ivy League schools in the top 10.

Carnegie Mellon University and University of Pittsburgh are 25th and 68th,
respectively, in the national universities ranking, and Carnegie Mellon is
eighth in the undergraduate engineering program ranking.

Over the years, critics have pointed to flaws in the U.S. News rankings. As the
rankings themselves feed into the academic reputation of schools, the reputation
section of the weighting is self-reinforcing; high-scoring schools garner better
reputations, which help them score well in following years.

The selectivity criterion includes the percentages of applicants accepted, and a
school can reduce that number by encouraging students to apply even if it does
not plan to accept them.

Niche, meanwhile, ranks schools within states, placing a greater emphasis on
student diversity and quality of life than U.S. News.

In the Niche ranking of Pennsylvania schools, Penn came in first, followed by
Carnegie Mellon, Swarthmore and Haverford. Penn State placed 10th, and Pitt
placed 12th.

Niche also does a national ranking, in which Penn is seventh.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 19, 2017



CORRECTION:  In a Saturday article on the US News & World Report college
rankings, Swarthmore College's ranking among liberal arts colleges was
incorrect. Swarthmore is tied for third in the ranking.

GRAPHIC: CHART: U.S News; Post-Gazette: U.S NEWS COLLEGE RANKINGS/National
Universtiy Rankings\ \ CHART: U.S News; Post-Gazette: U.S NEWS COLLEGE RANKINGS/
Liberal Arts College Rankings\ \ CHART: U.S News; Post-Gazette: U.S NEWS COLLEGE
RANKINGS/Top Public School Rankiings \ \ CHART: Niche; Post-Gazette: NICHE
RANKINGS OF PENNSYLVANIA COLLEGES, 2018\ \

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                               3 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                            August 22, 2006 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Metro Edition

So, who's really No. 1? ... and does it really matter?;
St. Olaf or Carleton? The U.S. News & World Report rankings give Carleton the
edge, but St. Olaf's educators and students say the rankings miss a lot.

BYLINE: Norman Draper, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1022 words

DATELINE: Northfield, Minn.


The U.S. News & World Report's Best Colleges guide hit the newsstands Monday,
and St. Olaf College placed a very Minnesota-like above average, ranking 55th
among the nation's liberal arts colleges.

That's 49 spots lower than its crosstown rival, Carleton College, a perennial
rankings star.

But there's some consolation: St. Olaf ranked fifth among Princeton Review's
"361 best colleges" in the quality of its food. And it's one of 40 colleges
profiled in the book, "Colleges That Change Lives."

The late-summer barrage of college rankings is out, and Minnesota colleges and
universities find themselves all over the map for all kinds of reasons. The
University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, placed 67th in U.S. News & World Report's
"best national universities" category. Macalester made Newsweek's list of "25
hot schools" and was No. 24 in U.S. News' ranking of top liberal arts colleges.

Getting high rankings on these lists puts colleges in a favorable light
nationwide. But the ranking idea rubs many college folks the wrong way.

"I'm very skeptical about the whole concept of ranking colleges in numerical
order," said Macalester Admissions Director Steve Colee.

"To say we're No. 6 this year and a wonderful college like Bowdoin is No. 7,
what does that mean?" said Paul Thiboutott, dean of admissions at Carleton.

(This year, U.S. News ranked Williams College in Maine as the No. 1 liberal arts
college.)

Schools play to their strengths

So, do such rankings matter? And does anybody really care? At St. Olaf, a small,
Lutheran, liberal arts school that often finds itself placed somewhere between
55 and 65 in the U.S. News rankings, feelings and perceptions are mixed.

You won't see copies of the U.S. News & World Report college issue strewn around
the admissions office lobby. Applications don't seem to rise and fall based on
such rankings, and few parents of applicants bring them up, said Jenny
Howenstine, St. Olaf associate director of admissions. Still, Howenstine said,
many have read the "Colleges That Change Lives" book.

Last Friday afternoon, John and Janean Andrus, and their 17-year-old daughter,
Ashley Edelburg, were touring St. Olaf, but not because of its ranking in any
magazine or guide.

"We're looking for a private college that provides a Christian background," said
John Andrus. Mostly, they researched Lutheran websites.

St. Olaf President David R. Anderson said rankings are worthy of notice, but
added,  "We weren't up all night waiting for the ... results from U.S. News
&World Report."

And many professors ignore them, or at least say they do. The sense among St.
Olaf administrators and teachers is that the ratings, even if accurate, don't
offer the kind of in-depth information that prospective students need to know,
and rankings routinely favor such well-funded powerhouses as Harvard, Princeton,
Yale, Williams, Amherst and Carleton.

"There are some people who find them upsetting and distorting," said Jim May,
St. Olaf provost and dean. "There are several who find them silly and
ridiculous. I think most people feel kind of neutral toward them."

`Have to take them seriously'

Still, some students and alumni say such ratings are more important than college
administrators would like to admit.

"They have some merit," said Magdalena Wells, who will be a St. Olaf junior this
year. She used rankings and guidebooks as a high school student in Spokane,
Wash., exploring the vast college landscape. "That's because parents, employers,
students and graduate schools have given them a certain amount of respect and
made students feel they have to take them seriously."

College rankings have grown to become almost a cottage industry among
publishers, and mid-August is when many of them are released. Time and Newsweek
last week published their own "best colleges" articles. So did the Washington
Monthly. The Princeton Review releases its rankings today.

In the case of U.S. News &World Report, ratings are based on a number of
criteria; including ACT/SAT scores, selectivity, student retention, financial
resources, reputation among other colleges, and student-faculty ratios.

St. Olaf officials noted that one of the criteria - a relatively low alumni
giving rate - tends to drag it down in the rankings. Officials highlighted the
low giving rate in a recent report to school donors, as a nudge to get more
alumni to give, said Amy Gage, college director of marketing and communications.

As someone responsible for getting the St. Olaf story out to the public, Gage
has a different take on the rankings than many at St. Olaf.

"In my department, we have to take them seriously," she said. "And more
important, we hear from prospective students and their parents that they take
them seriously."

But most students know a college ranking can't select a college for you. Julie
Jackson, a St. Olaf senior from Decatur, Ill., relied on the U.S. News &World
Report rankings to isolate the top 30 liberal arts colleges for her. Many of her
peers in the top 10-15 percent of her class were doing the same thing. She
picked Carleton out of that group. Later, though, she chanced on some other
information about St. Olaf. Eventually, although accepted at both schools, she
chose St. Olaf as a better fit.

This year she's consulting the U.S. News & World Report rankings again, this
time for graduate schools. But she stressed the importance of putting such
rankings in their place.

"I think it's useful for narrowing things down," she said. "But it shouldn't be
the only tool you use."

Norman Draper - 612-673-4547

ST. OLAF COLLEGE

Northfield

Founded: 1874

Number of students:   about 3,000

55th on list of Best Liberal Arts  Colleges        - U.S. News & World Report

5th best food in the nation       - The Princeton Review

ONLY

Minnesota college - and only Lutheran college in United States - in the revised
edition of "Colleges That Change Lives"

CARLETON COLLEGE

Northfield

Founded: 1866

Number of students: about 2,000

6th on list of Best Liberal Arts  Colleges         - U.S. News & World Report

19th  best quality of life        - The Princeton Review

15th among women golfers  who consider themselves  students first         - Golf
Digest

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 23, 2006 Wednesday



CORRECTION: In this story on college rankings, the location of Williams College
was incorrect. The college is in Massachusetts.

GRAPHIC: CHART
PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2006 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              March 2, 2015 Monday

The Ever-Growing World of College Rankings

LENGTH: 2103  words

DATELINE: Washington


American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers has issued
the following news release:

Last year at least three new rankings emerged from national publications or
major companies, joining a long line of magazines that have entered the rankings
game since U.S. News & World Report started publishing its list annually, in
1985.

With the August 2014 debut of Money magazine's Best Colleges, the ranks of
rankers now include Kiplinger's Personal Finance, Forbes, and The Washington
Monthly, along with employment-focused companies like LinkedIn, which introduced
its University Rankings in October, and PayScale, which will release its sixth
annual return-on-investment ranking in March, just before U.S. News publishes
the latest edition of its Best Graduate Schools.

And all the activity doesn't even count the ratings proposed by the Obama
administration.

To Corbin Martin Campbell, an assistant professor of higher education at
Teachers College of Columbia University, who studies rankings, the proliferation
reflects "a bizarre paradox": There are more rankings than ever, but "they
really don't speak to the education core of an institution."

At the same time, she notes, colleges possess "this incredibly rich data" about
learning--thanks to accreditation, curriculum reviews, syllabus analyses, and
creative ways of assessing college teaching--that never make their way into any
kind of consumer ranking. "The public is really left wanting," she says.

For other rankings skeptics--and they are legion--the proliferation is easier to
understand. "It's click bait, basically," contends Richard A. Hesel, principal
at the Art & Science Group, a consulting company that works in higher education.

But it's apparently click bait that resonates. Since 1995 the company has
conducted three surveys of prospective college students. Early on, the rankings
weren't that significant a factor in students' application decisions, but by
December 2012 its StudentPoll found that two-thirds of students bound for
four-year colleges were taking rankings into account. Among students with the
highest SAT scores, it was 85 percent.

Mr. Hesel blames "all the media hype about the rankings, higher education's own
pandering to them, and the intense competitive landscape of college admissions"
for the seeming influence of college rankings, even as he argues that most
institutions would be better off spending less time worrying about their ranking
and more time ensuring they're providing a valuable student experience and
innovative teaching.

According to Student­Poll, which is done in collaboration with ACT, U.S. News
was far and away the most influential: 58 percent of those who used a ranking
cited it, followed by 21 percent for Princeton Review, 9 percent for Forbes Top
Colleges, 5 percent for Thebestcolleges.org, and 8 percent for all others.

For that reason, Mr. Hesel, for one, says he doubts the influx of new rankings
will substantially influence students' college choices or unseat established
players like U.S. News.

"People have in their head an idea of where the well-known places stand," he
says. Newer ones "won't have currency."

The newer entrants, however, see themselves not as also-rans but as innovators.
They contend that their approaches do a better job of measuring the impact a
college has had, versus rankings that often merely reflect the quality of those
who applied and enrolled, because they focus on how students fare after college
and, in some cases, try to account for the socioeconomic status of the student
body.

We're entering either rankings overload or Rankings 2.0.

'Perverse Incentives'

Money's Best Colleges ranking was developed in collaboration with the company
College Measures and its founder, Mark Schneider, an expert on higher-education
data. The rankings take into account affordability, graduation rates, student
debt, and how students fare after graduation.

Kim Clark, a longtime reporter at U.S. News who moved to Money four years ago,
says she appreciates the "accountability" that her former publication introduced
into the higher-education market but over time also worried about the "perverse
incentives that the U.S. News rankings kind of created." (Among them, colleges
gin up applications so they can appear more selective.)

It was her idea that Money do its own. "My motivation was to do something
better" than U.S. News, she says. Ms. Clark says she consulted with several
higher-education experts in deciding what data to measure and how to weigh the
18 factors in three categories. The ratings use data from PayScale, which
collects information on salaries via crowdsourcing from individuals. It also
relies on teaching evaluations from RateMyProfessors.com and federal
loan-default data adjusted to take into account the economic diversity of the
student pool.

The result, says Ms. Clark, is a rating weighted heavily toward affordability
and return on investment. "The name of the magazine is Money," she says. "That's
our brief." Though a competitor, Forbes, already does a ranking with similar
goals, Ms. Clark says that Money editors feel they've found a niche.

In the vein of the approach that The Washington Monthly takes with its rankings
--rewarding colleges for what they do to promote social mobility and societal
good--Money also developed a separate list that it calls "Value All Stars," for
the 25 colleges that exceed their peers in outcomes of their graduates,
considering the socioeconomic diversity of their student populations. "To me the
'value-added' schools are really important," says Ms. Clark. "They're knocking
it out of the park." Social mobility also plays heavily into the formula for the
general rankings.

PayScale, while making its data available to others--it has collaborated with a
software company called CollegeNet to produce a Social Mobility Index ranking of
colleges--also develops two of its own rankings focused on value added from a
very dollars-and-cents point of view. Its five-year-old College ROI Report
calculates the value of 1,000-plus colleges based on their cost relative to the
salaries of their graduates, and its PayScale College Salary Report, which began
in 2008, ranks colleges based on the starting and midcareer salaries of their
graduates.

"Students entering college weren't doing a ton of research about what they'll be
making after graduation," says Lydia Frank, director of editorial and marketing
at PayScale, explaining the company's rationale for developing the rankings.

She says PayScale considers itself not so much in the rankings business as in
"the higher-education information business." And that, she says, is because
"ultimately we're a compensation-data company"--one that can benefit greatly by
getting more colleges to enlist more of their alumni to submit their salary
information to the PayScale database. "The data is really valuable to us," says
Ms. Frank.

To that end, PayScale has conducted an experiment with seven colleges offering
free, detailed reports on alumni, in some cases broken down by major, showing
how their salaries compare with graduates of other colleges. (One of them,
Wittenberg University, even posted its reportonline.) In return, the
participating colleges encourage alumni to submit their salary data to PayScale.

The underlying premise of the PayScale rankings, particularly its College Salary
Report, may seem antithetical to many in higher education who decry the notion
that the value of college can be measured by how much its alumni earn. But Ms.
Frank says the company is finding growing acceptance--both from consumers and
from colleges themselves. That coincides with the increasing pressure colleges
face to show how their alumni are faring, says Ms. Frank. "Now we get, 'Why
aren't we on the list?' Before it was, 'Take us off the list.'"

College rankings are also a means to an end for LinkedIn, the online networking
and job-recruiting site that now contains profiles of more than 350 million
people. "Today's students are tomorrow's professionals," says Crystal Braswell,
a manager in its corporate-communications office.

In October, a year after it lowered the minimum age for members and introduced
University Pages, where colleges can display information to be shared with
prospective students, employees, and alumni, LinkedIn unveiled the first version
of its University Rankings. As of now, the rankings cover only eight fields of
study--investment banking, marketing, design, and accounting among them--for
colleges in the United States, Canada, and Britain. Colleges with the
most-successful alumni in those fields rank the highest.

Ms. Braswell says the company plans to expand the rankings to include additional
fields of study, graduate schools, and universities in other countries. "
Rankings are not a stand-alone thing," says Ms. Braswell. "Students need to do
other kinds of research when they're choosing a school."

LinkedIn also offers other college-oriented services, including the Decision
Board site, begun in the fall of 2014, where students can solicit advice about
colleges from others in their LinkedIn networks. For a site that becomes more
and more valuable to recruiters as it demonstrates a growing and engaged base of
members, the college strategy makes sense. Ms. Braswell says the site has about
40 million students and recent graduates as members.

The magazines that produce rankings are also looking at them as a means to
another end: profits, for one.

At Money, says Diane Harris, the magazine's editor, "we really did it with
really pure journalistic ambitions," but it wasn't looking to lose money on the
project either. The rankings did well. In the first 10 weeks, they accounted for
about a third of all the traffic to Money's website, she says. As a result, the
magazine plans to invest more to improve them, in particular developing a better
search tool. She says editors also plan to mine the data to expand the
magazine's coverage of higher education throughout the year.

In a similar vein, next month marks the debut of The Other College Guide: A Road
Map to the Right School for You, a 400-plus-page resource for college students
based in part on The Washington Monthly's college ratings. (The book, published
by New Press, is written by Jane Sweetland, a former dean and journalist; the
Monthly's editor, Paul Glastris; and the magazine staff.) It too sees rankings
as the basis for new business opportunities.

Any College Can Achieve

The rankings universe appears to be ever-expanding. Which means that just about
any college can find some list in which it's a high achiever, even as officials
often trash the whole enterprise.

"Colleges are ready to trumpet whatever they get," says David Hawkins, executive
director of educational content and policy at the National Association for
College Admission Counseling. Meanwhile, he says, "there's a significant body of
our members who think rankings shouldn't exist at all, that education is such a
personal experience that you can't generalize about it."

Richard H. Hersh isn't a Nacac member, but he's solidly in that "shouldn't
exist" camp. A former college president (of Hobart & William Smith and of
Trinity College, in Connecticut) and co-author of the book We're Losing Our
Minds: Rethinking American Higher Education, Mr. Hersh is dismissive of all the
rankings because, he contends, what they measure is at best correlational: They
gauge "the quality of the people who applied to colleges," he says, and use that
to suggest the quality of a college itself. People are just avoiding the
question, "What is actually being learned?"

When he was a college president, he says, he tried for seven straight years to
get his fellow presidents in the Annapolis Group to boycott U.S. News.He says
only two were willing to sign on.

Mr. Hawkins, of Nacac, says he does see one silver lining in the proliferation
of rankings. They could help change the general perception that U.S. News
rankings are "almost official." The more the other rankings catch on, he says,
they can help "make the point that its methodology is not sacred."

Ms. Harris, the Money editor, says the rankings satisfy needs at several levels.
For one, parents want to be sure that they and their children are getting real
value, and that students will leave college prepared for a successful life.

Rankings are also appealing because anybody who went to college has some kind of
personal stake in seeing how their college stacks up, Ms. Harris says. "And,"
she notes, "everybody likes a good list."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              March 2, 2015 Monday

The Ever-Growing World of College Rankings

LENGTH: 2103  words

DATELINE: Washington


American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers has issued
the following news release:

Last year at least three new rankings emerged from national publications or
major companies, joining a long line of magazines that have entered the rankings
game since U.S. News & World Report started publishing its list annually, in
1985.

With the August 2014 debut of Money magazine's Best Colleges, the ranks of
rankers now include Kiplinger's Personal Finance, Forbes, and The Washington
Monthly, along with employment-focused companies like LinkedIn, which introduced
its University Rankings in October, and PayScale, which will release its sixth
annual return-on-investment ranking in March, just before U.S. News publishes
the latest edition of its Best Graduate Schools.

And all the activity doesn't even count the ratings proposed by the Obama
administration.

To Corbin Martin Campbell, an assistant professor of higher education at
Teachers College of Columbia University, who studies rankings, the proliferation
reflects "a bizarre paradox": There are more rankings than ever, but "they
really don't speak to the education core of an institution."

At the same time, she notes, colleges possess "this incredibly rich data" about
learning--thanks to accreditation, curriculum reviews, syllabus analyses, and
creative ways of assessing college teaching--that never make their way into any
kind of consumer ranking. "The public is really left wanting," she says.

For other rankings skeptics--and they are legion--the proliferation is easier to
understand. "It's click bait, basically," contends Richard A. Hesel, principal
at the Art & Science Group, a consulting company that works in higher education.

But it's apparently click bait that resonates. Since 1995 the company has
conducted three surveys of prospective college students. Early on, the rankings
weren't that significant a factor in students' application decisions, but by
December 2012 its StudentPoll found that two-thirds of students bound for
four-year colleges were taking rankings into account. Among students with the
highest SAT scores, it was 85 percent.

Mr. Hesel blames "all the media hype about the rankings, higher education's own
pandering to them, and the intense competitive landscape of college admissions"
for the seeming influence of college rankings, even as he argues that most
institutions would be better off spending less time worrying about their ranking
and more time ensuring they're providing a valuable student experience and
innovative teaching.

According to Student­Poll, which is done in collaboration with ACT, U.S. News
was far and away the most influential: 58 percent of those who used a ranking
cited it, followed by 21 percent for Princeton Review, 9 percent for Forbes Top
Colleges, 5 percent for Thebestcolleges.org, and 8 percent for all others.

For that reason, Mr. Hesel, for one, says he doubts the influx of new rankings
will substantially influence students' college choices or unseat established
players like U.S. News.

"People have in their head an idea of where the well-known places stand," he
says. Newer ones "won't have currency."

The newer entrants, however, see themselves not as also-rans but as innovators.
They contend that their approaches do a better job of measuring the impact a
college has had, versus rankings that often merely reflect the quality of those
who applied and enrolled, because they focus on how students fare after college
and, in some cases, try to account for the socioeconomic status of the student
body.

We're entering either rankings overload or Rankings 2.0.

'Perverse Incentives'

Money's Best Colleges ranking was developed in collaboration with the company
College Measures and its founder, Mark Schneider, an expert on higher-education
data. The rankings take into account affordability, graduation rates, student
debt, and how students fare after graduation.

Kim Clark, a longtime reporter at U.S. News who moved to Money four years ago,
says she appreciates the "accountability" that her former publication introduced
into the higher-education market but over time also worried about the "perverse
incentives that the U.S. News rankings kind of created." (Among them, colleges
gin up applications so they can appear more selective.)

It was her idea that Money do its own. "My motivation was to do something
better" than U.S. News, she says. Ms. Clark says she consulted with several
higher-education experts in deciding what data to measure and how to weigh the
18 factors in three categories. The ratings use data from PayScale, which
collects information on salaries via crowdsourcing from individuals. It also
relies on teaching evaluations from RateMyProfessors.com and federal
loan-default data adjusted to take into account the economic diversity of the
student pool.

The result, says Ms. Clark, is a rating weighted heavily toward affordability
and return on investment. "The name of the magazine is Money," she says. "That's
our brief." Though a competitor, Forbes, already does a ranking with similar
goals, Ms. Clark says that Money editors feel they've found a niche.

In the vein of the approach that The Washington Monthly takes with its rankings
--rewarding colleges for what they do to promote social mobility and societal
good--Money also developed a separate list that it calls "Value All Stars," for
the 25 colleges that exceed their peers in outcomes of their graduates,
considering the socioeconomic diversity of their student populations. "To me the
'value-added' schools are really important," says Ms. Clark. "They're knocking
it out of the park." Social mobility also plays heavily into the formula for the
general rankings.

PayScale, while making its data available to others--it has collaborated with a
software company called CollegeNet to produce a Social Mobility Index ranking of
colleges--also develops two of its own rankings focused on value added from a
very dollars-and-cents point of view. Its five-year-old College ROI Report
calculates the value of 1,000-plus colleges based on their cost relative to the
salaries of their graduates, and its PayScale College Salary Report, which began
in 2008, ranks colleges based on the starting and midcareer salaries of their
graduates.

"Students entering college weren't doing a ton of research about what they'll be
making after graduation," says Lydia Frank, director of editorial and marketing
at PayScale, explaining the company's rationale for developing the rankings.

She says PayScale considers itself not so much in the rankings business as in
"the higher-education information business." And that, she says, is because
"ultimately we're a compensation-data company"--one that can benefit greatly by
getting more colleges to enlist more of their alumni to submit their salary
information to the PayScale database. "The data is really valuable to us," says
Ms. Frank.

To that end, PayScale has conducted an experiment with seven colleges offering
free, detailed reports on alumni, in some cases broken down by major, showing
how their salaries compare with graduates of other colleges. (One of them,
Wittenberg University, even posted its reportonline.) In return, the
participating colleges encourage alumni to submit their salary data to PayScale.

The underlying premise of the PayScale rankings, particularly its College Salary
Report, may seem antithetical to many in higher education who decry the notion
that the value of college can be measured by how much its alumni earn. But Ms.
Frank says the company is finding growing acceptance--both from consumers and
from colleges themselves. That coincides with the increasing pressure colleges
face to show how their alumni are faring, says Ms. Frank. "Now we get, 'Why
aren't we on the list?' Before it was, 'Take us off the list.'"

College rankings are also a means to an end for LinkedIn, the online networking
and job-recruiting site that now contains profiles of more than 350 million
people. "Today's students are tomorrow's professionals," says Crystal Braswell,
a manager in its corporate-communications office.

In October, a year after it lowered the minimum age for members and introduced
University Pages, where colleges can display information to be shared with
prospective students, employees, and alumni, LinkedIn unveiled the first version
of its University Rankings. As of now, the rankings cover only eight fields of
study--investment banking, marketing, design, and accounting among them--for
colleges in the United States, Canada, and Britain. Colleges with the
most-successful alumni in those fields rank the highest.

Ms. Braswell says the company plans to expand the rankings to include additional
fields of study, graduate schools, and universities in other countries. "
Rankings are not a stand-alone thing," says Ms. Braswell. "Students need to do
other kinds of research when they're choosing a school."

LinkedIn also offers other college-oriented services, including the Decision
Board site, begun in the fall of 2014, where students can solicit advice about
colleges from others in their LinkedIn networks. For a site that becomes more
and more valuable to recruiters as it demonstrates a growing and engaged base of
members, the college strategy makes sense. Ms. Braswell says the site has about
40 million students and recent graduates as members.

The magazines that produce rankings are also looking at them as a means to
another end: profits, for one.

At Money, says Diane Harris, the magazine's editor, "we really did it with
really pure journalistic ambitions," but it wasn't looking to lose money on the
project either. The rankings did well. In the first 10 weeks, they accounted for
about a third of all the traffic to Money's website, she says. As a result, the
magazine plans to invest more to improve them, in particular developing a better
search tool. She says editors also plan to mine the data to expand the
magazine's coverage of higher education throughout the year.

In a similar vein, next month marks the debut of The Other College Guide: A Road
Map to the Right School for You, a 400-plus-page resource for college students
based in part on The Washington Monthly's college ratings. (The book, published
by New Press, is written by Jane Sweetland, a former dean and journalist; the
Monthly's editor, Paul Glastris; and the magazine staff.) It too sees rankings
as the basis for new business opportunities.

Any College Can Achieve

The rankings universe appears to be ever-expanding. Which means that just about
any college can find some list in which it's a high achiever, even as officials
often trash the whole enterprise.

"Colleges are ready to trumpet whatever they get," says David Hawkins, executive
director of educational content and policy at the National Association for
College Admission Counseling. Meanwhile, he says, "there's a significant body of
our members who think rankings shouldn't exist at all, that education is such a
personal experience that you can't generalize about it."

Richard H. Hersh isn't a Nacac member, but he's solidly in that "shouldn't
exist" camp. A former college president (of Hobart & William Smith and of
Trinity College, in Connecticut) and co-author of the book We're Losing Our
Minds: Rethinking American Higher Education, Mr. Hersh is dismissive of all the
rankings because, he contends, what they measure is at best correlational: They
gauge "the quality of the people who applied to colleges," he says, and use that
to suggest the quality of a college itself. People are just avoiding the
question, "What is actually being learned?"

When he was a college president, he says, he tried for seven straight years to
get his fellow presidents in the Annapolis Group to boycott U.S. News.He says
only two were willing to sign on.

Mr. Hawkins, of Nacac, says he does see one silver lining in the proliferation
of rankings. They could help change the general perception that U.S. News
rankings are "almost official." The more the other rankings catch on, he says,
they can help "make the point that its methodology is not sacred."

Ms. Harris, the Money editor, says the rankings satisfy needs at several levels.
For one, parents want to be sure that they and their children are getting real
value, and that students will leave college prepared for a successful life.

Rankings are also appealing because anybody who went to college has some kind of
personal stake in seeing how their college stacks up, Ms. Harris says. "And,"
she notes, "everybody likes a good list."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                             August 22, 2008 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Metro Edition

Students: Don't get hung up on rankings;
As a multitude of college rankings are released, there is one enduring question:
How much weight should high-school students and their families give them?

BYLINE: JEFF SHELMAN, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 779 words


It seems there are college rankings for just about everything.

PC Magazine looks at how "wired" a campus is. Mother Jones considers the
activist factor. Hispanic Magazine ranks the "top 25 colleges for Latinos." And
then there are publications such as U.S. News & World Report, The Princeton
Review and Forbes that attempt to provide a broader look at colleges and
universities across the country.

But what do these rankings really mean?

The debate picks up today when the latest U.S. News and World Report rankings --
the best known in the college rating business -- hit the Web. They'll hit the
street Monday.

The University of Minnesota's ratings this year show how confounding the
rankings can be.

In last week's rankings by Forbes, the state's flagship university was rated
524th nationally for schools of all sizes. In today's U.S. News rankings, the
U's Twin Cities campus is No. 61 overall in the national universities category
and 22nd among public national universities.

How can rankings be so different? Because different rankings value different
things.

U.S. News puts a premium on how other schools judge an institution, how many
students return for their second year and class size, for example.

Forbes, however, looked at criteria including graduation rates, student debt and
factors from a student's point of view. In its rankings small liberal arts
schools fared much better than big state universities.

Many colleges both locally and nationally aren't exactly fans of rankings and
ratings. Some question how they're done.

"You know what college presidents say: 'When they're good, you say rankings are
very important and when they're fair to middling, you say they're not
important,'" Hamline president Linda Hanson said.

So what should high school seniors and families do?

Don't get hung up on rankings, said Valerie Broughton of Minneapolis, a former
college administrator who is now an educational consultant helping students and
their parents navigate the college search process.

"I get very discouraged when parents come in and say, 'Well, this is a
top-ranked school here and these other schools aren't top-ranked so why are you
suggesting that my child look at them?'"

Across the board, the experts say students need to figure out what kind of
school they are interested in and can have success at. Then visit college
campuses. Choosing a school without a visit is like buying a car without a test
drive.

Choosing a school for its high ranking "may be a terrible choice for a student,"
U of M provost Thomas Sullivan said. "To turn to a commercial ranking and say,
'OK that's the one I'm going to go to,' and throw a dart at the highest level is
just a very serious mistake."

Kevin Carey, research and policy manager at Washington, D.C., think tank
Education Sector, said there are good pieces of data in the U.S. News rankings
such as graduation rates and retention rates. But families should consider more
than just numbers.

Jeff Shelman - 612-673-7478

MINNESOTA COLLEGE RANKINGS

Today, U.S. News & World Report releases its latest college rankings online. St.
Olaf and the University of Minnesota will be pleased with the results.

St. Olaf moved up seven positions in the liberal arts category to No. 47 and
joins Carleton and Macalester in the top 50. The U moved up 10 spots in the
national university rankings to No. 61 overall and No. 22 among public
universities. In the process, the U leapfrogged Big Ten rivals Michigan State,
Iowa and Purdue.

A look at how Minnesota schools fared by category:

National universities

61. University of Minnesota-Twin Cities

Third tier: University of St. Thomas

Liberal arts colleges

8. Carleton College

25. Macalester College

47. St. Olaf College

71. St. John's University

84. College of St. Benedict

88. Gustavus Adolphus College

Third tier: Concordia College (Moorhead); University of Minnesota-Morris

Universities-Master's (Midwest)

9. Hamline University

14. College of St. Catherine

16. Bethel University

22. College of St. Scholastica

25. Augsburg College

45. University of Minnesota-Duluth

51. Winona State University

Third tier: Concordia University-St. Paul; Minnesota State, Mankato; Minnesota
State, Moorhead; St. Cloud State

Fourth tier: Metropolitan State; Southwest Minnesota State

Baccalaureate colleges (Midwest)

16. Northwestern College

Third tier: Crown College; University of Minnesota-Crookston

Fourth tier: Bethany Lutheran College; North Central University

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 24, 2008



CORRECTION: In a chart appearing at the end of this article, Bemidji State
University was omitted from a list of Minnesota colleges ranked by U.S. News &
World Report. Bemidji State is ranked 67th in the Midwest in the Best
Universities-Masters category.

GRAPHIC: CHART

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2008 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                           September 13, 2016 Tuesday

US News college rankings released: Are students still reading them?;
US News and World Report has been ranking colleges for more than 30 years. But
after decades of competition, criticism, and debate, do the rankings still
matter to the students colleges hope to attract?

BYLINE: Ellen Powell Staff

SECTION: USA

LENGTH: 665 words


On Tuesday, US News and World Report released its 2017 Best Colleges Rankings.
The report - now in its 32nd year - sorts more than 1,800 US schools into
categories, then rates them on academic quality.

Over the years, the rankings have come under fire from many directions. Some
colleges have refused to share data with US News. The White House also expressed
concern about the rankings: In 2013, President Obama announced that the
government would release its own ratings. (The plan was abandoned in 2015, amid
heavy criticism by college and university presidents. Instead, the US Department
of Education now has a website that allows students to compare schools on size,
location and mission, among other metrics.)

The ensuing debate has divided educators into several camps: those who see the
rankings as a path to increasing their institutions' application numbers, or as
a valuable resource for students, and those who want higher education to be
about more than data crunching - although plenty hope for both.

"My impression is that rankings have become particularly important to college
and university administrators, who are anxious for their school to rise in the
rankings. They believe that such a rise will bring more and better-prepared
students," says Patricia Albjerg Graham, a leading historian of American
education and a professor emerita of Harvard University's Graduate School of
Education.

Some colleges are certainly concerned about the effect of a drop in their
rankings. On Tuesday, Peter Henry, dean of New York University's Stern School of
Business, emailed students after the university's rankings dropped when the
school failed to provide some data. He took responsibility for the confusion and
promised students to "further tighten the procedures for data submission so such
lapses do not recur."

Other schools emphasize that numbers fail to capture the diversity of the
college experience. What students want from their experience varies
substantially across institutions and programs of study. So does their financial
status after graduation: Schools with a high number of graduates in technology
and the sciences will likely fare better in "alumni giving" measures than those
that educate teachers, artists, or musicians.

Of course, educators are not the ones making the decision about which college to
attend. With 20.5 million students in US higher education as of this fall, the
question is: Do US News rankings influence prospective students?

The experience of Reed College, a liberal arts college in Portland, Ore., may
suggest not. Between 1995, when the college stopped reporting data to US News,
and 2005, applications rose by 27 percent. Mean SAT scores are now higher, and
the proportion of professors with PhDs has increased. In 2016, it was rated one
of CollegeData's "most difficult" schools for gaining admission, with just 39
percent of almost 4,000 applicants accepted.

Though she says you can't avoid rankings, Elizabeth Heaton, a college admissions
consultant at College Coach in Watertown, Mass., believes "they come up less
frequently than they used to." College Coach, which works with 32,000 families
on college admissions each year, has seen students looking at fit, location, and
cost more than rankings. Even when students are looking at rankings, they show a
"willingness to consider all different kinds of rankings," whereas historically
the main source of this data was US News.

There are some exceptions to that trend. Ms. Heaton mentions that "rankings can
be a go-to" for families who are unfamiliar with the US school system. Families
looking for a very specific major are also more likely to turn to rankings to
guide the decision-making process.

Students may apply to top-ranked colleges without ever looking at the rankings.
As Dr. Graham notes, "The top dozen or so institutions in the rankings are
generally well known to informed applicants," giving them an international brand
awareness that can push up applications.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A high school student from New York visits Harvard University as a
prospective student in 2014. Harvard offers a multi-day program for prospective
students called Visitas to help students decide if they want to attend. Melanie
Stetson Freeman/The Christian Science Monitor/File

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education

                            January 28, 2013  Monday

College Rankings: a Guide to Nowhere

BYLINE: Debra Houry

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Opinion & Ideas

LENGTH: 918  words

ABSTRACT

Organizations that rank colleges need more-meaningful measures that show
diversity, job placement, faculty membership in national academies, and student
engagement.

FULL TEXT

This month high-school seniors have been frantically submitting their college
applications for the January deadlines. Students aspire for acceptance into a
reputable college, yet how do they determine which one is the best for them?
Many of them turn for guidance to U.S. News & World Report and other resources
that rank institutions.

Unfortunately, those "one size fits all" rankings, which are influential to both
students and institutions, are often poorly designed and untrustworthy.

In November, George Washington University disclosed that it had been inflating
class-rank data for the past decade, which resulted in its own inflated ranking
in U.S. News. It was the third institution last year to admit to providing
inaccurate and inflated data. The other two, Claremont McKenna College and my
own employer, Emory University, reported inflated SAT scores. And there are most
likely many more instances of data falsification.

I'm not absolving anyone of blame, but there is an inherent conflict of interest
in asking those who are most invested in the rankings to self-report data.

Furthermore, the formula used in the rankings is poor. U.S. News calculates
"student selectivity"-how picky the college is-based in large part on how many
students were in the top 10 percent of their high-school classes. However, the
National Association for College Admission Counseling reported that most small
private and competitive high schools no longer report class rank, and some
public high schools are also forgoing reporting this rank to their students and
colleges. But U.S. News still includes it as a category.

While the rankings themselves are suspect, U.S. News's criteria are a
disincentive for colleges to evolve. For example, they discourage colleges from
selecting a diverse student body. An institution that begins accepting more
African-American students or students from low-income families-two groups that
have among the lowest SAT scores, according to the College Board-might see its
ranking drop because the average SAT score of its freshmen has gone down.

The rankings also discourage colleges from keeping pace with the digital
revolution and doing things more efficiently. For example, in its law-school
rankings, U.S. News rewards higher numbers of library volumes and titles, even
though the move toward digital formats should make that measure obsolete.
Meanwhile, dollars spent per student are rewarded as well, so if colleges
perform more cost-effectively, perhaps by using newer technologies like online
learning, they are penalized.

Other ranking systems aren't any better. Forbes, which also annually rates
colleges based on value and quality of teaching, includes as part of its scoring
system student evaluations from Rate My Professors (notorious for its "hotness"
category). These student evaluations are anonymous and unverified, so a student
unhappy with her grade or even the professor can comment.

In some systems, colleges can pay to be included. The QS (Quacquarelli Symonds)
World University Rankings now has a "star system." The QS star system is able to
use publicly available data for some institutions, like Harvard. But beginning
in 2011, the vast majority of other colleges included in the QS star system paid
$30,400 for an initial audit and a three-year license for participation. A New
York Times article last month highlighted how many of those paying colleges
received high star marks in the QS ratings, yet aren't rated highly in other
ratings systems.

Defenders will say these rankings provide a place for prospective students to
compare data from various institutions, and may get them to consider ones they
were not aware of. Although the rankings do highlight information on
institutions, including class size and graduation rates, they miss important
measures such as student learning and the university experience. A recent survey
conducted by Gallup for Inside Higher Ed reported that only 14 percent of
admissions directors believed that these rankings helped students find a college
with a good fit.

Students might be better off turning to reports like the National Survey of
Student Engagement, which annually collects information from more than 500
institutions about student participation in programs and activities geared
toward learning and personal development. At Emory, for instance, we started a
program called Living-Learning Communities, which gives upperclassmen incentives
to live on campus and participate in residential learning. But you would never
learn about that from the ranking formulas.

Competition and colorful magazines are alluring, but we should expect the scores
to be meaningfuland accurate. Emory, for its part, has developed a data-advisory
committee to ensure a consistent and accurate method to report all institutional
data. Other colleges should put in place similar checks of internal data
validity or have external audits.

Meanwhile, ranking organizations should develop more-meaningful measures around
diversity of students, job placement, acceptance into professional schools,
faculty membership in national academies, and student engagement. Instead of
being assigned a numerical rank, institutions should be grouped by tiers and
categories of programs. The last thing students want is to be seen as a number.
Colleges shouldn't want that, either.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jon Krause for The Chronicle
College Rankings: a Guide to Nowhere 1

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                             October 7, 2016 Friday

College Ranking: New List, Same Old Results

BYLINE: Nicolaus Mills

LENGTH: 830 words


The Wall Street Journal is hoping to become a major player in the lucrative
business of ranking colleges. In a long report it published last week, the
Journal put forward what it calls "a new type of ranking" with "special emphasis
on financial considerations-the outcomes students expect from attending a
particular college or university."

The Journal distinguishes its "fresh perspective" on more than a thousand
colleges from the approach taken by publications that make the selectivity of a
college critical to their rankings. But-surprise, surprise-the colleges the
Journal favors are the ones that top most other lists. Stanford, MIT, and six
Ivy League colleges are among the 10 schools that head the Journal's rankings.

It's hard to imagine whether Yale is ranked five and Harvard six or Harvard is
ranked five and Yale six matters very much to most college-age students and
their parents, but for colleges that don't crack the top 40 or 50 number in a
rating system, rankings like that of The Wall Street Journal can be a roadblock
to reaching students who would be a good fit.

The college at which I teach, Sarah Lawrence, finished just over the edge of the
first quarter of U. S. colleges rated by the Journal, and for us, that ranking
is a disappointment. We believe we provide our students with a unique education
based on close faculty-student contact.

Consider the weight The Wall Street Journal puts on the salaries a college's
grads earn 10 years after enrollment (as opposed to 10 years after graduation).
It's a very misleading statistic for weighing the value of an education.

Our college is not planning an official public response to our ranking. I
understand such restraint. Protest from a college that didn't get the ranking it
wants sounds like sour grapes. If the colleges that finished high on The Wall
Street Journal rankings complained, that would be a different story.  They would
be saying they were praised for attributes that don't seem as important to them
as attributes that did not figure prominently in their evaluation

The trouble is that silence about how the Wall Street Journal has composed its
college rankings lets the rankings stand unchallenged, and that's a mistake.
The Wall Street Journal is far from a disinterested judge of colleges. In all
too many areas its rankings are an extension of its conservative economic values
that make homo economicus its ideal student.

Consider the weight The Wall Street Journal puts on the salaries a college's
grads earn 10 years after enrollment (as opposed to 10 years after graduation).
It's a very misleading statistic for weighing the value of an education. For
colleges that see themselves as pipelines to the business world or Silicon
Valley, the 10-year mark is fine.  But for colleges like mine, where grads often
work in the arts or in teaching, the salary metric is distorting. Ten years
after they began college, many of our grads who get Ph.D.'s will just be
starting their careers.

Similarly misleading is how the Journal ranks the intellectual ability of
faculty. "We look at the number of published scholarly research papers per
faculty at each institution," the publication notes in its methodology section.
In numerous colleges turning out an endless stream of papers for peer-reviewed
journals is the key to tenure.  But product is hardly more important than
quality when it comes to judging faculty. In my college and others like it, many
of the most thoughtful faculty write books designed for the general reader, not
a small circle of their fellow Ph.D.'s. One of our best teachers, a Pulitzer
Prize-winning poet, is a gifted critic, but the last thing that he does with his
time is grind out research papers.

Finding fault with a ranking system like the Wall Street Journal's doesn't
relieve a college of the responsibility it has for making a positive case for
what it does well. That goes without saying.  The problem is that a powerful
publication like The Wall Street Journal can through a prestigious ranking
system make it very difficult for a college that doesn't win its favor to have
its case even heard.

According to a Public Agenda study, the ratio of high school students to high
school, college guidance counselors in the country averages 460 to 1.  For many
students and their parents, turning to a ranking list is an unavoidable starting
point for selecting a college. In these all-too-common situations, a
college-ranking list like The Wall Street Journal's has extraordinary
power-especially when it doesn't acknowledge its biases.  As Jeffrey Brenzel,
the former dean of admissions at Yale, observed in the wake of The Wall Street
Journal's ranking report, "Make no mistake: the publication of college rankings
is a business enterprise that capitalizes on anxiety about college admissions."

Nicolaus Mills is chair of the literature department at Sarah Lawrence College
and author of Winning the Peace: The Marshall Plan and America's Coming of Age
as a Superpower.


LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Observer, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education

                           September 10, 2012  Monday

New Player in the College-Rankings Game Mines Alumni Opinions

BYLINE: Eric Hoover

SECTION: STUDENTS; Administration

LENGTH: 893  words

ABSTRACT

The listings are designed to provide information on who graduates rather than
who enrolls.

FULL TEXT

If you had it to do all over again, would you choose to attend your alma mater?
Do you think the education you received there was a good value? How much money
do you make? Oh, and are you happy?

The newest player in the college-rankings game has asked such questions of more
than 42,000 college graduates. Called the Alumni Factor, the new venture has
released a college guide based largely on the opinions of those who've earned
bachelor's degrees from one of 177 institutions.

U.S. News & World Report's popular rankings tell you a lot about who comes
through a college's gates; the Alumni Factor's rankings were designed to capture
who emerges at the other end of the enrollment cycle. The former relies, in
part, on the opinions of outsiders to rate a given college; the latter relies on
the opinions of people who, presumably, know the place well.

"We want to pierce the bubble of reputation," says the introduction to the
Alumni Factor's guide, "to understand how graduates actually perform
post-graduation-and hear what they have to say about the job their college did
to prepare them."

Although the nation's shelves are already full-perhaps too full-of college
guides, the Alumni Factor's timing, at least, seems impeccable. Today's students
and parents are asking more questions about outcomes, about the success and
salaries of an institution's graduates.

Kicking the tires on a college means inquiring about the long-term benefits,
tangible or otherwise, that come with a diploma. And now consumers can buy the
results of a vast opinion survey of graduates that allows them to compare
colleges in various categories. (You may now cheer-or jeer-this development
accordingly.)

To create the Alumni Factor rankings, researchers measured 15 different
attributes for each college, including the average income and average net worth
of its graduates. Respondents-between 100 to 500 from each college-were asked
about their intellectual and social development, as well as their "overall
happiness." In case you're wondering, only 49.6 percent of all the graduates
surveyed agreed strongly with this statement: "My college developed me
intellectually."

Respondents were also asked to rate how well their alma mater prepared them for
their first job. Would they recommend their alma mater to a student who was
considering it? That answer was factored in, too. The only measures that are not
based on surveys: six-year graduation rates and alumni giving rates.

Monica McGurk, the guide's executive editor, says the findings will help
colleges, not just students and parents. She has discussed the results with
officials from several of the institutions that appear in the rankings. Some
were disappointed by the results, she says, but all of them were fascinated to
see how their college compared with others.

"This is a way to re-engage them in their purpose and their mission," Ms. McGurk
says, "and to get out of the brand-building and reputation cycle that focuses
them on selectivity. This is focusing them on information that really gets to
the core of what they're all about."

Diluting the Rankings Pool

The guide, which sells for $29.95, includes a composite ranking of all the
colleges. On that list, Washington & Lee College, in Virginia, is tops, followed
by Yale, Princeton, and Rice Universities. Each institution is also ranked
within each of the 15 categories. The Alumni Factor's Web site will allow
subscribers to create personalized rankings, based on the weights they assign to
different attributes.

As with any rankings system, there are limits to how much this one can tell you.
Although the Alumni Factor touts that it's all about outcomes, a graduate's
opinion of his alma mater-not to mention his level of contentment and net
worth-surely have much to do with factors beyond the influence of the college.
Those factors may well relate strongly to "input" variables, like where he grew
up, how much money his parents made, and what his academic interests were.

Or they may relate to postcollege choices, like going to graduate or
professional school. And opinions, like the wind, are subject to change over
time. How reliable are they at a given point in time?

Whatever the limitations, Jeffrey Durso-Finley, director of college counseling
at the Lawrence­ville School, in New Jersey, welcomes the new rankings.

When the Alumni Factor sent him its preliminary findings, he was so intrigued
that he agreed to serve on the company's advisory board (he donated the small
honorarium to a charity). Although he says there's too much emphasis on
financial data in the guide, he thinks it's useful.

"It may be somewhat heretical to say, but I like that there are more rankings
out there because it dilutes the pool a little bit," he says. "I like that this
is about what happens to students after they enroll."

Mr. Durso-Finley encourages his students to think about the sources of the
information they find in college guides. Is it hard data or fluff? That Alumni
Factor's rankings put a lot of stock in subjective evaluations might just remind
students that, in the end, choosing a college is not a science.

"I don't think it's going to revolutionize college rankings," he says, "but it's
going to add a really interesting twist to the conversation."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2012 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education

                           September 10, 2012  Monday

New Player in the College-Rankings Game Mines Alumni Opinions

BYLINE: Eric Hoover

SECTION: STUDENTS; Administration

LENGTH: 893  words

ABSTRACT

The listings are designed to provide information on who graduates rather than
who enrolls.

FULL TEXT

If you had it to do all over again, would you choose to attend your alma mater?
Do you think the education you received there was a good value? How much money
do you make? Oh, and are you happy?

The newest player in the college-rankings game has asked such questions of more
than 42,000 college graduates. Called the Alumni Factor, the new venture has
released a college guide based largely on the opinions of those who've earned
bachelor's degrees from one of 177 institutions.

U.S. News & World Report's popular rankings tell you a lot about who comes
through a college's gates; the Alumni Factor's rankings were designed to capture
who emerges at the other end of the enrollment cycle. The former relies, in
part, on the opinions of outsiders to rate a given college; the latter relies on
the opinions of people who, presumably, know the place well.

"We want to pierce the bubble of reputation," says the introduction to the
Alumni Factor's guide, "to understand how graduates actually perform
post-graduation-and hear what they have to say about the job their college did
to prepare them."

Although the nation's shelves are already full-perhaps too full-of college
guides, the Alumni Factor's timing, at least, seems impeccable. Today's students
and parents are asking more questions about outcomes, about the success and
salaries of an institution's graduates.

Kicking the tires on a college means inquiring about the long-term benefits,
tangible or otherwise, that come with a diploma. And now consumers can buy the
results of a vast opinion survey of graduates that allows them to compare
colleges in various categories. (You may now cheer-or jeer-this development
accordingly.)

To create the Alumni Factor rankings, researchers measured 15 different
attributes for each college, including the average income and average net worth
of its graduates. Respondents-between 100 to 500 from each college-were asked
about their intellectual and social development, as well as their "overall
happiness." In case you're wondering, only 49.6 percent of all the graduates
surveyed agreed strongly with this statement: "My college developed me
intellectually."

Respondents were also asked to rate how well their alma mater prepared them for
their first job. Would they recommend their alma mater to a student who was
considering it? That answer was factored in, too. The only measures that are not
based on surveys: six-year graduation rates and alumni giving rates.

Monica McGurk, the guide's executive editor, says the findings will help
colleges, not just students and parents. She has discussed the results with
officials from several of the institutions that appear in the rankings. Some
were disappointed by the results, she says, but all of them were fascinated to
see how their college compared with others.

"This is a way to re-engage them in their purpose and their mission," Ms. McGurk
says, "and to get out of the brand-building and reputation cycle that focuses
them on selectivity. This is focusing them on information that really gets to
the core of what they're all about."

Diluting the Rankings Pool

The guide, which sells for $29.95, includes a composite ranking of all the
colleges. On that list, Washington & Lee College, in Virginia, is tops, followed
by Yale, Princeton, and Rice Universities. Each institution is also ranked
within each of the 15 categories. The Alumni Factor's Web site will allow
subscribers to create personalized rankings, based on the weights they assign to
different attributes.

As with any rankings system, there are limits to how much this one can tell you.
Although the Alumni Factor touts that it's all about outcomes, a graduate's
opinion of his alma mater-not to mention his level of contentment and net
worth-surely have much to do with factors beyond the influence of the college.
Those factors may well relate strongly to "input" variables, like where he grew
up, how much money his parents made, and what his academic interests were.

Or they may relate to postcollege choices, like going to graduate or
professional school. And opinions, like the wind, are subject to change over
time. How reliable are they at a given point in time?

Whatever the limitations, Jeffrey Durso-Finley, director of college counseling
at the Lawrence­ville School, in New Jersey, welcomes the new rankings.

When the Alumni Factor sent him its preliminary findings, he was so intrigued
that he agreed to serve on the company's advisory board (he donated the small
honorarium to a charity). Although he says there's too much emphasis on
financial data in the guide, he thinks it's useful.

"It may be somewhat heretical to say, but I like that there are more rankings
out there because it dilutes the pool a little bit," he says. "I like that this
is about what happens to students after they enroll."

Mr. Durso-Finley encourages his students to think about the sources of the
information they find in college guides. Is it hard data or fluff? That Alumni
Factor's rankings put a lot of stock in subjective evaluations might just remind
students that, in the end, choosing a college is not a science.

"I don't think it's going to revolutionize college rankings," he says, "but it's
going to add a really interesting twist to the conversation."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2012 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 21, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

More College Rankings, More Confusing Results

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1494 words


PayScale introduced its first college salary report in 2008, and the College
Scorecard from the federal government followed last year, ushering an elephant
into the hallowed halls of college admissions: What do the schools' graduates
actually earn?

Despite the hand-wringing of many in academia, who saw the immeasurable richness
of a college education crassly reduced to a dollar sign, the data has wrought a
sea change in the way students and families evaluate prospective colleges.
Earnings data are finding their way into a proliferating number of mainstream
college rankings, shifting the competitive landscape of American higher
education in often surprising ways.

This fall, The Wall Street Journal and Times Higher Education (a unit of TES
Global, and no relation to The New York Times) introduced their first college
rankings.

Forty percent of their result is measures of ''outcomes'' -- earnings,
graduation rate and loan repayment rate. The other 60 percent rates the school's
resources; student engagement, as measured by student responses to a
questionnaire; and ''learning environment,'' or diversity.

Last year The Economist released its first college rankings, and it relies even
more heavily on earnings data. It took the College Scorecard earnings data and
performed a multiple regression analysis to assess how much a school's graduates
earn compared with how much they might have made had they attended another
school.

The Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce has issued
another set of rankings, adjusting the College Scorecard salary rankings first
for choice of major (since disproportionate numbers of students studying
high-paying fields like engineering and business skew the results), and yet
another ranking that assesses students' expected earnings, given their
characteristics when they entered college, to the actual outcome.

PayScale itself has refined its rankings in response to criticism, by including
along with salary data the percentage of students who major in subjects other
than high-paying science, technology, engineering and math, as well as the
percentage of respondents who found ''high meaning'' in their work.

Both Forbes and Money magazines, in their rankings, incorporate PayScale data on
earnings.

To be sure, the dowager of college rankings, U.S. News & World Report,
steadfastly disdains the use of earnings or other outcomes in its rankings.
While it continues to tweak its criteria, it relies primarily on measures of
reputation and selectivity.

There are now so many rankings that ''We'll soon be ranking the rankings,'' said
Andrew Delbanco, a professor of American studies at Columbia University and
author of ''College: What It Was, Is, and Should Be.''

Rankings ''drive presidents and trustees into frenzies of delight or alarm,'' he
said. ''Meanwhile, most institutions that serve most students -- underfunded
public colleges, especially community colleges -- aren't even on the screen.''

One thing is clear: None of the rankings agree on which is the ''best'' college.
The only school that shows up among the top 10 on the Wall Street Journal,
Economist, Georgetown, PayScale and U.S. News lists is Harvard. But it ranks No.
1 on only one of Georgetown's lists (earnings adjusted for choice of major).

The number of rankings is a good thing. Students and their parents certainly
shouldn't rely on only one source.

''We've been very clear that this is a guide for figuring how much you should
spend on your education,'' said Katie Bardaro, vice president for data analytics
at PayScale. ''In choosing college, you need to make a smart financial decision.
What's the likely return on your investment?

''Is it the only factor?'' she added. ''Absolutely not. But it's an important
factor.''

Stanford University is No. 1 on the recent Wall Street Journal list. It fares
well on PayScale and U.S. News, too. But it falls to a distant No. 256 on The
Economist's list (which, it should be said, produced the results most at odds
with other rankings).

Results diverged even more widely for smaller schools. This year's winner on
PayScale is the SUNY Maritime College, whose graduates earn a median $147,000.
The school at Fort Schuyler in the Bronx enrolls fewer than 2,000 students and
it offers bachelor's degrees in engineering and science. But it only ties for
80th in U.S. News's ''regional universities north'' category and isn't even
ranked by The Wall Street Journal.

Or consider a venerable liberal arts college like Washington and Lee in
Virginia. It's No. 1 on The Economist's list. Its graduates earn a whopping
$22,375 more than would have been expected based on the characteristics of
entering students, the magazine calculated. But it ranks only 109th on the Wall
Street Journal/Times Higher Education list, with an especially low score for
diversity.

Women's colleges are especially vulnerable when earnings data are incorporated.
U.S. News ranks Wellesley College, Hillary Clinton's alma mater, No. 3 among
national liberal arts colleges. It falls to No. 30 on The Wall Street Journal's
rankings, and to No. 201 on PayScale.

Yale illustrates an even starker divergence. It is No. 1 for outcomes in The
Journal's ranking; in The Economist's, it's near the bottom, at 1,270. The
magazine estimates that a student attending Yale would earn about $10,000 a year
less on average than if the student had attended another college.

To show how sensitive the results are to the criteria used in the rankings, I
asked PayScale to rank schools based on earnings but also with relatively few
majors in the high-paying science fields and whose graduates reported a high
level of meaning in their work.

That resulted in an entirely different list: The top five (in order) were
Claremont McKenna in California, Georgetown, Wesleyan, Holy Cross and Oberlin.
Liberal arts colleges -- whose leaders have been some of the most vocal critics
of rankings -- generally fared much better using criteria that included job
satisfaction. (I'm a graduate and trustee of DePauw University, a liberal arts
college.)

But does the proliferation of data -- and rankings -- actually help students and
parents make wiser choices? ''What's clear is that rankings sell,'' said Richard
Ekman, president of the Council of Independent Colleges. ''It's not at all clear
that leads to a better-informed public. There's so much information it's hard
for any high school student to sort it out.''

Jeff Strohl, director of research at the Georgetown Center on Education and the
Workforce, said, ''When I was 17, I wouldn't have known what to make of'' all
the data. But Georgetown's goal is to help students interpret it. ''We need to
move the needle from just presenting the earnings numbers to helping them make a
decision based on that. We need to think about this using a public service
model,'' he said.

If nothing else, earnings are objective and, as the database grows into the
millions, reliable. And they've helped focus attention on little-known schools
that would never crack the high status barrier of the U.S. News rankings,
especially the community colleges that educate the vast majority of America's
students.

In addition to SUNY Maritime, I found myself looking up some schools I'd never
heard of that fared well on the earnings-based rankings: Bentley University
(Massachusetts), which made both The Economist's and Georgetown's top 10 lists;
Otis College of Art and Design (California) and Alderson Broaddus University
(West Virginia), both in The Economist's top 10; and University of the Pacific
(California) and Molloy College (New York), both in Georgetown's top 10.

In the end, of course, deciding which college to attend is intensely personal.
No ranking can assess a student's unique personality, goals, strengths and
weaknesses and match those to the ''right'' college.

So how would I rank the rankings? Other than its ability to confer bragging
rights, which seems a dubious distinction among already status-crazed students
and parents, U.S. News seems in danger of becoming an anachronism as long as it
ignores outcomes.

It should go without saying that the value of an education should never be
reduced to purely monetary terms. But college is a major investment; students
and parents should consult PayScale and the College Scorecard in order to
understand the financial implications of their decisions.

No ranking is perfect, but I found that The Wall Street Journal/Times Higher
Education survey did a creditable job blending a wide variety of factors,
including outcomes and student engagement.

As Phil Baty, rankings editor at Times Higher Education, told me this week,
''The success of a college graduate should not be measured purely in terms of
the salaries they earn. There's more to life than a high salary. This is why
we've also put an emphasis on how much the student is intellectually engaged,
stimulated and stretched by their college education.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/21/business/how-much-graduates-earn-drives-more-
college-rankings.html

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Juggle the ratings in the right way, factoring in a graduate's
future salaries and job satisfaction, and Claremont McKenna College in
California comes out on top. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (B1)
 A commencement at Harvard, a prestigious university that earns a high ranking
on most college lists, but rises to No. 1 on only one. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK
FRIEDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Topeka Capital-Journal (Kansas)

                           September 20, 2009 Sunday

College rankings won't tell the whole story

SECTION: PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 522 words


"There are three types of lies: lies, damned lies and statistics." This
well-known phrase has been attributed to Mark Twain, Benjamin Disraeli and
others.

With the recent comments by Gov. Mark Parkinson regarding the ranking of The
University of Kansas and other regents schools in the U.S. News and World
Report's America's Best Colleges 2010 guide, I have thought about the meaning
behind these words.

When I looked for colleges back in the mid-1980s, the primary guide was Fiske's
Guide to Colleges, which employed a ranking system of one to five stars. Within
a few short years, the U.S. News rankings burst onto the scene and became the
primary benchmark for measuring the worth of a college or university.

With the Fiske rankings as my guide, I ended up selecting Reed College, which
had a five-star ranking. Did I really know that this ranking was accurate and
scientific? No, but it seemed authoritative in much the way that the U.S. News
rankings appear today.

All schools celebrate the ranking of prominent fields of study and either
publicly rejoice or privately grumble over their overall ranking in these
various lists. There are a few maverick schools like Reed College that no longer
submit data to the rankings and therefore aren't listed in the U.S. News guide.

However, for a variety of reasons, most public universities and private colleges
refuse to join Reed in thumbing their noses at this influential publication. But
are their alternatives to the U.S. News rankings?

The answer is yes. Many other publications and organizations have sprung up to
provide their own rankings and college guides. I cannot possibly provide any
sort of a comprehensive list here, although sites like the University of
Illinois College Ranking Home, www.library.illinois.edu/edx/rankings
/rankgen.html, and the Institute for Higher Education Policy's Clearinghouse,
www.ihep.org/Research/rankingsystemsclearinghouse.cfm, are good places to peruse
various ranking systems.

There are systems I think worth considering, although each has its faults and
limitations. One is the American Council of Trustees and Alumni's "What Will
They Learn" rankings www.whatwilltheylearn.com/about. Schools are given letter
grades based on requirements at these schools to teach English composition,
literature, foreign language, U.S. government or history, economics, math and
science.

Another is the Washington Monthly College Guide that rates schools "based on
their contribution to the public good." The main criteria are social mobility,
research and service.

Both of these ranking systems do offer criteria that seem to be objective and
quantifiable. What is interesting about the Washington Monthly Guide is that its
list has dramatic differences from the U.S. News guide.

What does this all mean? For me, it means that the best way to "measure" what
school is best for you is to visit the school, talk to current students, meet
with faculty and trust your intuition about a school. Rankings will never
replace your own instincts.

Nicolas Shump is a doctoral student in American studies at The University of
Kansas. He can be reached at Nico1225@sunflower.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The Topeka Capital-Journal
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    The News & Advance (Lynchburg, Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 19, 2006 Saturday

College rankings have skeptics, but few to be found at Virginia schools

BYLINE: Ron Brown, The News & Advance, Lynchburg, Va.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 866 words


Aug. 19--A ranking of American colleges by the news magazine U.S. News & World
Report, drew mixed reviews from Lynchburg area college administrators.

The 2007 edition of "America's Best Colleges" hit the newsstands Friday.

Lynchburg College, Sweet Briar College, Randolph-Macon Woman's College and
Liberty University were all listed among the ranked schools in the magazine.

LU had the added distinction of being one of three schools nationwide profiled
in the magazine.

Lynchburg College was the top-ranked school from the area, ranked 44th in the
Southern region for schools including undergraduate and master degree programs.

The Southern region included most of the southeastern United States.

LU was 109th in the southern region.

Sweet Briar was ranked 74th in the nation among liberal arts colleges.
Randolph-Macon Woman's College was ranked 86th.

The rankings were drawn from data assessing a school's average freshman
retention rates, average graduation rates, class size and student-to-faculty
ratios.

The rankings also looked at SAT/ACT scores and students' rankings in the high
school classes.

While she is pleased to be ranked, Sweet Briar President Betsy Muhlenfeld said
in many ways the rankings miss the point.

"It says nothing about whether the college actually delivers or whether student
learning is actually taking place," she said.

Muhlenfeld said "a full 25 percent" of the ranking comes from the "perceptions"
of the quality of an institution by fellow college presidents.

"We want to make sure that the public perception of the college does not fall,"
she said. "We don't pay a whole lot of attention to these rankings beyond that."

Muhlenfeld said some perspective students use the ranking to validate their
college choice.

"We know it says absolutely nothing about what happens once a student gets to
college," she said.

Regardless, Lynchburg College President Kenneth Garren said he was happy with
the school's ranking.

"Lynchburg College is pleased to be recognized in the top tier of America's best
Southern colleges and universities offering master's degrees," he said. "We are
committed to providing all of our students the most comprehensive academic and
real-world experiences possible. Our professors are dedicated to teaching, and
our staff is always finding new ways to enrich the lives of our students."

The rankings also drew praise from Barbara Harbison, the director of the office
of college relations for Randolph-Macon Woman's College.

"The U.S. News rankings reaffirm what our community already knows -- that R-MWC
offers a liberal arts education of the highest quality," she said. "Our ranking
of seventh on the list of highest percentage of international students (10
percent) reflects our emphasis on globalization that permeates the entire
college."

No one could have been happier than the Rev. Jerry Falwell, who said the U.S.
New & World Report profile was the best thing to happen to recruiting since the
school was founded 35 years ago.

"We have worked for years to build our numbers, to build our finances, to build
our athletic programs and to erect our buildings," Falwell said. "The hardest
challenge in our first 35 years was to build academic excellence while
maintaining our Judeo-Christian ethic."

Falwell said the current rankings are the first time that LU has been ranked.

"This article is a recognition of Liberty among the best colleges in the
nation," he said. "We have a long way to go as most schools do. But we are now
on the list and recognized."

The University of Virginia, the College and William and Mary and Virginia Tech
are ranked among the top national universities. William and Mary is ranked 31st,
with Tech coming in at 77th.

UVa slipped one spot for the third year in row to No. 24 overall. It remained,
however, the second-highest ranked public university, sharing the title with the
University of Michigan at Ann Arbor.

The top ranked public university again this year is the University of California
at Berkeley, at No. 21.

"You're glad to be included, and being the No. 1 or 2 public university for 10
years running is a good thing," said Carol Wood, a UVa spokeswoman. "But I think
you also have to look at those rankings and see if they're a true reflection of
the quality of the university and the quality of education our students are
receiving."

Nine Virginia schools are ranked among Southern universities, master's degree
category, led by No. 2 James Madison University. Eight state schools are listed
in the liberal arts colleges, with Washington and Lee University in 17th place.

VMI tied for first place with New College of Florida for public liberal arts
colleges.

Princeton took the overall No. 1 spot nationwide, breaking a three-year tie with
Ivy League rival Harvard.

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

To see more of The News & Advance, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.newsadvance.com. Copyright (c) 2006, The News & Advance, Lynchburg,
Va. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20060819-LY-COLLEGE-RANKINGS-20060819

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LY


                       Copyright 2006 The News & Advance


                              15 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 6, 2012 Monday

Contra Costa Times editorial: Colleges must cease providing false data to boost
rankings

BYLINE: Contra Costa Times editorial © Copyright 2011, Bay Area News Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 526 words


College rankings, such as the one U.S. News & World Report has published each
year since 1983, may provide some interesting reading, but they are hardly the
sole basis on which anyone should choose which school to attend.

In fact, the magazine itself agrees, telling readers, "Don't rely solely on
rankings to choose a college" but to "think of the rankings as one tool for
selecting a college." There are many other reasons and sources of information
that need to be considered in selecting a college, U.S. News advised.

Unfortunately, there are those who are so enamored by high rankings that they
forget this advice.

Among them are some college officials who have regarded the rankings to be so
important that they presented false or misleading information about their
schools.

The latest scandal regarding the rankings is the admission by Claremont McKenna
College, a pricey institution in Southern California, which was ranked ninth
among liberal arts colleges by U.S. News.

Richard C. Vos, vice president and dean of admissions, who resigned, admitted he
had been giving inflated average SAT scores to the magazine since 2005.

Claremont McKenna is not alone in lying about test scores and other data used in
college rankings.

Last fall, Iona College in New Rochelle, N.Y., acknowledged that its employees
had lied for years about test scores, graduation rates, freshman retention,
student-faculty ratio, acceptance rates and alumni giving, according to The New
York Times.

If accurate information had been provided to U.S. News, Iona's ranking of 30th
among "regional universities" in the Northeast, would have dropped to an
estimated 50th place.

In 2008, Baylor University offered financial rewards to admitted students for
retaking the SAT in hopes of increasing its average score.

Another way to game the ranking system is to delay admission of low-scoring
students until January, excluding them from averages for the class admitted in
September. Also, some colleges seek more applications to report a lower
percentage of students accepted.

The New York Times reported that last year, law schools at Villanova University
and the University of Illinois said they had misreported some statistics. In
2009, a number of schools were found to be inflating their percentages of
full-time professors.

These tactics not only undermine the validity of the rankings, but more
significantly, they also demean the colleges that feel they must lie or game the
ranking system to elevate the public perception of their schools.

A 2011 report by the National Association for College Admission Counseling said
that most college admissions officials and high school counselors expressed a
low regard for the U.S. News rankings. However, they still used the material to
gather information about other schools or to market their own.

We hope that revelations about Claremont McKenna's dishonesty will send a signal
to all universities and colleges to provide accurate data about their schools
not just to those doing the rankings but to the public.

More important, the scandal should make students and parents more wary of the
rankings and less reliant on them in choosing a college.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                            February 6, 2012 Monday

Contra Costa Times editorial: Colleges must cease providing false data to boost
rankings

BYLINE: Contra Costa Times editorial © Copyright 2011, Bay Area News Group

SECTION: OPINION; Editorials

LENGTH: 526 words


College rankings, such as the one U.S. News & World Report has published each
year since 1983, may provide some interesting reading, but they are hardly the
sole basis on which anyone should choose which school to attend.

In fact, the magazine itself agrees, telling readers, "Don't rely solely on
rankings to choose a college" but to "think of the rankings as one tool for
selecting a college." There are many other reasons and sources of information
that need to be considered in selecting a college, U.S. News advised.

Unfortunately, there are those who are so enamored by high rankings that they
forget this advice.

Among them are some college officials who have regarded the rankings to be so
important that they presented false or misleading information about their
schools.

The latest scandal regarding the rankings is the admission by Claremont McKenna
College, a pricey institution in Southern California, which was ranked ninth
among liberal arts colleges by U.S. News.

Richard C. Vos, vice president and dean of admissions, who resigned, admitted he
had been giving inflated average SAT scores to the magazine since 2005.

Claremont McKenna is not alone in lying about test scores and other data used in
college rankings.

Last fall, Iona College in New Rochelle, N.Y., acknowledged that its employees
had lied for years about test scores, graduation rates, freshman retention,
student-faculty ratio, acceptance rates and alumni giving, according to The New
York Times.

If accurate information had been provided to U.S. News, Iona's ranking of 30th
among "regional universities" in the Northeast, would have dropped to an
estimated 50th place.

In 2008, Baylor University offered financial rewards to admitted students for
retaking the SAT in hopes of increasing its average score.

Another way to game the ranking system is to delay admission of low-scoring
students until January, excluding them from averages for the class admitted in
September. Also, some colleges seek more applications to report a lower
percentage of students accepted.

The New York Times reported that last year, law schools at Villanova University
and the University of Illinois said they had misreported some statistics. In
2009, a number of schools were found to be inflating their percentages of
full-time professors.

These tactics not only undermine the validity of the rankings, but more
significantly, they also demean the colleges that feel they must lie or game the
ranking system to elevate the public perception of their schools.

A 2011 report by the National Association for College Admission Counseling said
that most college admissions officials and high school counselors expressed a
low regard for the U.S. News rankings. However, they still used the material to
gather information about other schools or to market their own.

We hope that revelations about Claremont McKenna's dishonesty will send a signal
to all universities and colleges to provide accurate data about their schools
not just to those doing the rankings but to the public.

More important, the scandal should make students and parents more wary of the
rankings and less reliant on them in choosing a college.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             August 20, 2007 Monday
                                  ALL EDITION

OPPOSITION GROWS TO MAGAZINE'S COLLEGE RANKINGS;
SOME ADMINISTRATORS SAY THE RANKINGS DON'T TELL STUDENTS ENOUGH ABOUT A COLLEGE.

BYLINE: By MATT KRUPNICK Contra Costa Times

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 908 words

DATELINE: WALNUT CREEK, CALIF.


It's the toughest time of the year for Lloyd Thacker to stand in a supermarket
line.

With U.S. News & World Report's annual college ranking hitting news racks today
the rankings became available online Friday Thacker will be spending a lot of
time looking at the publication he has dedicated himself to resisting.

Thacker, who directs the Oregon-based Education Conservancy, has led the growing
nationwide opposition to the 24-year-old U.S. News rankings, which he sees as
the epitome of commercialized higher education. Colleges should not be ranked
based on a uniform scale, he said.

"It has distorted and skewed how (college) admissions are perceived," said
Thacker, a former college counselor. "Their impact far exceeds their educational
relevance."

By late last week, Thacker had gathered signatures from more than 60 college
presidents who have vowed to stop completing a major portion of the magazine's
annual survey, which analyzes 1,400 schools across the United States. The
disputed section, which accounts for a quarter of a school's score, rates a
college's reputation among its peers.

Among the institutions refusing to rate their competitors' reputations are St.
Mary's College in Moraga, Calif., and San Francisco State University.

In their hunger for higher rankings, some colleges have increased the number of
scholarships for top-performing students, Thacker said. That system skews
colleges toward more affluent students, while hurting low-income students who
tend to have lower test scores.

Administrators grumbling Although college administrators have long grumbled at
the popularity and effects of the U.S. News rankings, more school leaders have
organized in opposition than in years past. Thacker's group is planning a
September meeting at Yale University to discuss alternate ranking systems.

Nevertheless, U.S. News remains a major player in the world of college choice.
At least 97 percent of the schools that participated in this year's U.S. News
rankings plan to continue to do so, according to a survey of more than 300
admissions officers released last week by Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions.

With thousands of colleges and universities available to students, the magazine
is merely providing people a research tool, said U.S. News Editor Brian Kelly.
Critics say that the lists lead schools to spend too much money in specific
areas to boost rankings.

"I think we get blamed for a lot of colleges' behavior that isn't our fault,"
Kelly told reporters last week. "The kind of behavior they're talking about here
is often behavior that is good for the schools."

The rankings reward colleges for small class sizes, student retention and
graduation rates and financial resources. A quarter of each school's overall
score is based on the opinions of administrators at other colleges.

Ranking systems inadequate The rankings continue to hold considerable sway for
many graduating high school seniors especially those at the most competitive
high schools.

"I wasn't looking at any particular book, but you always know the rankings
anyway," said 17-year-old Hayley Andrews, who is preparing to attend New York's
Barnard College, ranked 30th among liberal-arts schools by U.S. News. "It would
be hard for me or my friends to explain to people why we turned down a school
that was ranked higher than the school we chose."

The magazine this year tweaked its rankings to compensate for the effects of
low-income students, whose graduation rates are lower. Despite the change, some
administrators say the rankings don't tell students enough about a college.

"The kind of work that U.S. News & World Report does doesn't really get to the
heart of what we do here at St. Mary's," said Michael Beseda, the college's vice
provost for enrollment. "They've narrowed the discussion in this country of what
an undergraduate education should be.

"Any informed educator who thoughtfully thinks about the ranking systems
realizes they are inadequate."

St. Mary's ranked 11th in the western United States this year among colleges
that grant no higher than a master's degree. But Beseda said he prefers surveys
that measure student engagement, in which St. Mary's scores well.

But at the University of California at Berkeley, the top-ranked public
university in the country this year, administrators say the lists offer valuable
information when taken in the context of other sources. Any rankings systems
will have its flaws and critics, said Christine Maslach, the university's vice
provost for undergraduate education.

"You always have to take these with a grain of salt," she said. "There's
probably a variety of places where a student would do well."

Law schools concerned While an increasing number of college leaders believe they
can attract students without participating in rankings, the dilemma causes more
consternation among law school deans. U.S. News publishes the only widely read
law school rankings, which have led some schools to take drastic actions to
improve their scores, said Christopher Edley, dean of the University of
California at Berkeley's Boalt Hall law school.

One prominent school is considering admitting students based solely on
entrance-exam scores to attain a better rank, Edley said.

"By and large, the rankings are a force of evil," said Edley, who nevertheless
speaks frequently of the importance of Boalt's place on the U.S. News list.

A highly ranked school attracts more donations, better students and top
professors, he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                           September 16, 1994, Friday

RATING SYSTEMS ABOUND The best college? Depends on the list Schools boast of
high rankings, watch magazines

BYLINE: By Laura Wisniewski STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section B; Page 2

LENGTH: 854 words


College ranking. It's the annual magazine cover story that makes many higher
education leaders squirm. Unless, of course, they come out on top.

In that case, they boast of their high placement in brochures and brag to other
institutions about their coveted standings. They even may leave an issue or two
of the magazine lying around the school commons areas.

"If you don't come out well, you don't talk about it, period," said Tom Jackson,
who is director of public information for the University of Georgia and can
recite his school's placement in several rankings off the top of his head.
"Money Magazine ranked us 16th in the Best Buys category. If we had been 101, I
wouldn't be bragging about it."

The annual College Quality Ranking by U.S. News & World Report - one of the
most-watched lists - hits the newsstands Monday. A week later, the magazine will
release its Best College Values edition, and the next week, look for a guidebook
on the nation's "best colleges."

Many others have joined the party of money-making, and publicity- grabbing,
rankings: In addition to Money magazine, there's Business Week and the Princeton
Review Student Access Guide to the Best Colleges and more. The Fiske Guide to
Colleges, one of the first to rank colleges nationwide, was launched in 1982.

College leaders debunked the rankings in the past, but now they're recognizing
that consumers - especially potential students and their cost- and
quality-conscious parents who have become inclined to shop around - like lists.

In the U.S. News ranking, more than 1,400 colleges and universities were asked
to fill out 13-page questionnaires. The magazine divided the schools into 14
categories based on classifications set by the Carnegie Foundation for the
Advancement of Teaching.

Then the number-crunching began.

Last year, the University of Georgia fell into the second "quartile," ranking it
somewhere in the category of 52nd-to-102nd-best national universities. They
weren't pleased.

"We worked very closely to analyze what is it in their formula that's causing
the university to fail to break into the higher quartile," said Jackson, who
hopes to get all of U.S. News' data on a computer disc so they can "really
crunch some numbers and see how they arrive at their results."

Some rankings rely more on surveys and less on numbers and often paint a prickly
picture of a school. An example was Princton Review's ranking of Georgia Tech as
the No. 1 school in the unique category of "professors suck all life from
material."

Georgia Tech got a double whammy: Money magazine didn't list it as a best buy
this year, though it made the list last year.

"Their methodology changed; we didn't," said David Arnold, public relations
director for Georgia Tech.

Arnold said rankings are important, but only as part of a variety of information
that potential students should consider. He said he keeps in touch with the
publishing organizations during the ranking process to make sure they have
accurate information.

"Marketing Georgia Tech isn't a lot different from marketing a product, so you
are concerned about the endorsements, testimonials and rankings," Arnold said.
"It's very much a part of everyday life."

At Agnes Scott College, the rankings are "welcome affirmations of the position
we feel we have in higher education," said Sara Pilger, director of
communications. No wonder: Agnes Scott frequently comes out looking good among
liberal arts colleges.

Spelman College enjoyed being No. 4 among regional liberal arts colleges in the
South last year, but its new Carnegie ranking this year puts it in a tougher
national category.

Even if a college wanted to beat the ranking system by putting its best foot
forward on the most important questions, such efforts could backfire.

"Every year they change their questions and they change the importance they give
to each question," said Susan Frost, director of institutional research at Emory
University.

While colleges accept that these rankings have gained importance in the
community at large, she said, they're still not considered a valid picture of a
school.

"You can't take a university and reduce it to a line of numbers," said Frost, a
member of the National Association of Institutional Researchers, which
criticizes the rankings but is learning to live with them. The association tries
to work closely with agencies producing the rankings, Frost said.

Robert Morse, director of data analysis at U.S. News, said Thursday that about
three college leaders show up at his office each week to lobby and schmooze. But
while many of their suggestions are self-serving, some are seriously considered,
he said.

In addition to the shots at the magazine's methodology, formulas and
number-crunching, some higher-ups in academia suspect some old-fashioned
truth-stretching among their counterparts.

"Some institutions pad their numbers. These so-called quantified rankings
encourage institutions to be less than honest," said J. Wade Gilley, president
of Marshall University in West Virginia. "I'm leery of things that encourage
people to cross the line."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH942600189

GRAPHIC: Photo: Students at Georgia Tech hit the books. Georgia Tech, which last
year was listed by Money magazine as a best buy, didn't quite make that
money-wise rating this year. / Rich Addicks / Staff

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                              19 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Moscow-Pullman Daily News (Idaho)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 8, 2009 Tuesday

Officials: Higher education rankings only part of equation: WSU, UI
administrators, professors say value of various college rankings is in eye of
the beholder

BYLINE: Yesenia Amaro, Moscow-Pullman Daily News, Moscow, Idaho

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1065 words


Sep. 8--Eric Spangenberg said his college doesn't "chase" rankings.

"I really just believe that we need to do the right thing strategically and then
tactically, and then when you are recognized for having done the right things,
that's what is very satisfying," said the dean of Washington State University's
College of Business.

The college's international business program was recently listed among the top
20 in the nation by U.S. News and World Report, which dedicates an annual
edition to ranking the world's best colleges.

The U.S. News and World Report rankings are among many produced and disseminated
by various organizations and media outlets each year, and determining which ones
really matter can be both challenging and frustrating for university
administrators, faculty, staff, students and prospective students.

The WSU College of Business' entrepreneurial program has consistently been
ranked in the top 25 over the last few years, but this is the first time the
international business program was ranked by U.S. News and World Report.

"This is one of the rankings that is kind of meaningful," Spangenberg said.
"There are lot of rankings out there that are not bona fide, meaning that a lot
of people can do lots of kinds of surveys, and so forth, but the U.S. News
ranking is one that means something, (and) that our peers look at."

Spangenberg said in order for the international business program to make it in
the top 20, it "actually had to push somebody out of the top 20."

He said that had been a priority for the college since he became the dean about
five years ago.

"It's satisfying to see that you can set objectives and if you direct the
resources for those objectives you can realize success," he said.

University of Idaho College of Law Dean Don Burnett said the college was
recently included in the "top 10" list of America's "best values" in legal
education by The National Jurist magazine.

The UI College of Law ranked ninth out of 200 accredited law schools in the
country, Burnett said.

Still, he said no prospective student should rely solely on college rankings
because they can sometimes be misleading.

For example, he said the American Bar Association, the Law School Administration
Council and other entities have issued statements criticizing U.S. News and
World Report's methodology and rankings.

He said unanimous mail-in surveys are a common factor U.S. News uses in all its
methodologies.

"A student should decide what she or he considers most important in a program,"
Burnett said. "Visit the Web site of the program and investigate it thoroughly
and go to the institution and visit with administrators and faculty firsthand in
order to get information that is more customized to the students' interest."

Inconsistencies can further complicate college rankings. For instance, the UI
and WSU both received C grades in a recent study conducted by the American
Council of Trustees and Alumni, while nine of U.S. News' top 20 national
universities received Fs.

UI Associate Vice President for Enrollment Management Steve Neiheisel said
college rankings have become part of the higher education environment.

"Clearly some will be more valuable than others," he said. "It has to do with
the methodology and who is reporting it."

WSU College of Veterinary Medicine Dean Brian Slinker said the college rankings
that are valuable are those that collect "hard data."

"A lot of hard data so it boils down to the accuracy," he said, adding that it
also depends on what media outlets or other organizations choose to value in
their ranking systems.

Slinker said it's hard to say whether some college rankings could be harmful to
an institution.

"I'm not sure if harmful is the right way to say it," he said

Neiheisel said some college rankings can have a negative affect on an
institution.

"Ranking the schools based on the party schools is not something that is going
to help the reputation," he said. "That's not going to be a positive."

Associate professor John Paznokas has taught at WSU for 33 years and said the
criteria of the college rankings can significantly alter the results.

He also said someone can say that WSU is ranked 110th place in the latest U.S.
News report, but for him WSU is "number one."

"I have worked with a lot of students who have gone on to have successful
careers," he said. "There are a very few that left here without the skills they
needed to be successful.

"That was their choice, we gave them the opportunity."

Neiheisel said parents and prospective students pay attention to college
rankings when considering what institution to attend, even though there are
other, more important things to look at.

He said students have to look at what kind of program and resources an
institution has available for them.

"A student has to come to a college that is the right fit for them, where they
will be successful," he said.

Burnett said there are two components of value in higher education, one being
the quality of the program and the other the investment.

"Students should look at both sides of that equation. (The) cost of the program
will determine the amount of debt that a student may take away from the
institution," he said. "We want students to be able to take the job that fits
their talents and that are consistent with their ideals, not simply the jobs
that will pay the debts."

Spangenberg said a university degree is branded and students decide what they
want their brand to be, but that brand might not always represent the quality of
education they will receive.

"I think it's important to recognize and inform people that the brand (does) not
necessarily mean a better education," he said. "In some respects it might mean
less of an education."

On the Web:

www.nationaljurist.com

http://colleges.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com/best-colleges

http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/college_guide/rankings
/national_university_rank.php

Yesenia Amaro can be reached at (208) 882-5561, ext. 237, or by e-mail at
yamaro@dnews.com

To see more of the Moscow-Pullman Daily News or to subscribe to the newspaper,
go to http://www.dnews.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Moscow-Pullman Daily News,
Moscow, Idaho Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090908-1MW-Officials-Higher-education-rankings
-only-part-of-equation-0908

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1MW


                                 Copyright 2009


                              20 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 13, 2016 Wednesday

Ohio: U.S. News & World Report rankings

LENGTH: 1109  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Columbus: Clermont College, The State of Ohio has issued the following news
release:



 In September 2015, the University of Cincinnati was again named in the Top Tier
of the country's "Best National Universities," placing at 140 in the 2016
special issue. UC is ranked at 71 among top public universities.





 When college co-op and internship opportunities were last ranked in the 2014
edition, UC also made the list of the top 13 colleges with the best co-op or
internship opportunities.



 In addition, UC has numerous programs ranked among the top 100 public
universities in the nation.







 University-wide rankings



     Top 13 -- Cooperative Education, 2013 ranking still current

     71 -- Top public school, 2016

     115 -- Best colleges for veterans, 2016



 Colleges



     32 -- College of Pharmacy, 2012 ranking still current

     40 -- College of Medicine for research, 2015 ranking

     54 --- College of Nursing graduate studies, 2015 ranking

     70 -- College of Business MBA, 2015 ranking

     81 --- College of Engineering graduate studies, 2015 ranking

     82 -- College of Law, 2015 ranking



 Graduate schools



       3 -- School of Criminal Justice (CECH) graduate studies, 2009 ranking
still current

     76 -- School of Education (CECH) graduate studies, beating out Temple,
Loyola, Ohio U.; 2015



 Best online programs



     8  --  online graduate nursing program, 2016 ranking

     10 -- online graduate nursing program for veterans; 2014 ranking still
current

     14 -- online graduate criminal justice program, 2016 ranking

     30 -- online graduate education program, 2016 ranking

     30 -- online graduate business program (non MBA), 2016 ranking

     49 -- online graduate engineering program, 2016 ranking

     52 -- online MBA program, 2016 ranking

     153--online bachelor's programs for veterans, 2015 ranking

     195--online bachelor's program, 2016 ranking



 Music and arts graduate programs



       3 -- opera/voice

       3 -- interior design

       5 -- musical conducting

       6 -- industrial design

       6 -- music

       9 -- music composition

       9 -- orchestra/symphony

     37 -- drama

     46 -- creative writing

     62 -- fine arts

                             -- 2014 rankings still current for all



 Medical and health graduate programs



       3 -- pediatrics, 2015 ranking

     35 -- speech, language pathology graduate program (CAHS), 2012 ranking
still current

     37 -- audiology graduate program (CAHS), 2012 ranking still current

     43 -- otolaryngology graduate program, 2014 ranking still current

     78 -- College of Medicine's primary-care program, beating out Ohio U.,
Rutgers; 2014 ranking still current

     99 -- physical therapy graduate program, 2012 ranking still current



 Science, engineering, business graduate programs



       6 -- paleontology (2010)

     20 -- environmental engineering (2014)

     31 -- aerospace engineering (2014)

     48 -- civil engineering (2014)

     60 -- mechanical engineering (2014)

     MBA:

         46 -- best part-time program

         70 -- best full-time program

         top 10 -- greatest financial value upon graduation, based upon highest
first-year salaries relative to debt load out of 437 for programs

                               -- 2014 rankings still current for all MBA
programs



 Misc. programs



     10 -- accounting undergraduate program, 2014 ranking still current

     88 -- Earth sciences/Geology graduate program, 2014 ranking still current

     93 -- biological sciences graduate program, 2014 ranking still current

     94 -- sociology graduate program, 2013 ranking still current

     96 -- chemistry graduate program, 2014 ranking still current
 Various other rankings applaud UC



 Note: Most rankings do not occur yearly.

 Physical campus



 Top in the world and the nation



     The New York Times Magazine recently ran an eight-page spread of images
focusing on UC's architecture, calling the dramatic campus renovation of the
past quarter century "...the most ambitious campus-design program in the
country...." (2015)



     Forbes magazine -- Forbes named UC among the world's most beautiful college
campuses. Others making that short list were Oxford University in England as
well as Princeton University, Stanford University, Yale University and the
University of Virginia. (2010)



     Delta Sky magazine -- UC made the list of the world's Top Ten most
inspiring campuses, as selected by Delta Sky magazine. Campuses were deemed
inspiring based upon their settings, design or architecture. (2011)



     Yahoo Travel lists UC among the nation's most beautiful college campuses,
noting that such architecture not only nabs indecisive students, but also
attracts tourists. UC is listed along with Yale, Notre Dame, Harvard, Cornell,
Princeton, Duke and William and Mary. (Oct. 2011)



     Travel & Leisure magazine listed UC among the nation's most beautiful
campuses, along with Cornell, Duke, Notre Dame, Princeton, Stanford, Vanderbilt
and Yale. (Oct. 2011)



     Best College Reviews named UC's rec center No. 1 among the "25 most amazing
campus student recreation centers" in the country. "UC students have all the
amenities that modern students expect, but they enjoy partaking of them in world
class architectural achievements, which is a big part of why Cincinnati takes
our top spot," the announcement read. Ohio made a good showing with Ohio State
University placing at No. 5 and University of Akron at No. 14. (2013)



     Allied Health World named UC's Campus Recreation Center on West Campus,
along with the East Campus Fitness Center in the CARE/Crawley building, to be in
the top 10 university fitness centers in the country. The announcement praised
the quantity and quality of equipment, swimming pools, etc., but also bragged on
the architecture -- Pritzker Prize-winning architect Thom Mayne and Kristina
Loock for the former building, and the latter for winning the Chicago Athenaeum
American Architecture Award. (June 2013)



     The Fiscal Times listed UC among the "10 Public Colleges with Insanely
Luxurious Dorms," citing the upperclassman housing located in the same building
as the Campus Recreation Center and CenterCourt, the dining facility with five
food stations. (fall 2012)



     HomeTalk.com listed UC's Morgens Hall among its national list of 7
university residence halls with must-have features. Morgens was included for its
sustainability features. (2015)



     Top Colleges Online named UC as having three of "The 50 Most Amazing
Examples of College Architecture." The top three were the Vontz Center, the
Steger Student Center and the Engineering Research Center. (2012)



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                           September 16, 1994, Friday

Emory celebrates improved ranking

BYLINE: By Laura Wisniewski STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section B; Page 2

LENGTH: 903 words


Emory University celebrated its new and improved position today as the 16th best
college in the nation, according to the new U.S. News & World Report college
ranking.

Last year, Emory ranked 25th in the report.

"I'm gratified that the perception of the school has caught up to reality,"
Emory's president, William M. Chace, said today. "This ranking is the one that
people pay a lot of attention to."

Mercer University in Macon debuted in the ranking this year as No. 4 under the
category of top 15 regional universities in the South. Spelman College, which
was No. 4 among regional liberal arts colleges in the South last year, didn't
make the top of the new list. But this year, the school was put into a tougher
national, rather than regional, category.

U.S. News' annual College Quality Ranking issue will be at the newsstands on
Monday. The magazine released only top portions of each category; several more
Georgia colleges are expected to appear on the extensive lists.

The college ranking is an annual magazine cover story that makes many higher
education leaders squirm. Unless, of course, they come out on top.

In that case, they boast of their high placement in brochures and brag to other
institutions about their coveted standings. They even may leave an issue or two
of the magazine lying around the school commons areas.

"If you don't come out well, you don't talk about it, period," said Tom Jackson,
who is director of public information for the University of Georgia and can
recite his school's placement in several rankings off the top of his head.
"Money Magazine ranked us 16th in the Best Buys category. If we had been 101, I
wouldn't be bragging about it."

Many others have joined the party of moneymaking, and publicity- grabbing,
rankings: In addition to Money magazine, there's Business Week and the Princeton
Review Student Access Guide to the Best Colleges and more. The Fiske Guide to
Colleges, one of the first to rank colleges nationwide, was launched in 1982.

College leaders debunked the rankings in the past, but now they're recognizing
that consumers - especially potential students and their cost- and
quality-conscious parents who have become inclined to shop around - like lists.

In the U.S. News ranking, more than 1,400 colleges and universities were asked
to fill out 13-page questionnaires. The magazine divided the schools into 14
categories based on classifications set by the Carnegie Foundation for the
Advancement of Teaching.

Then the number-crunching began.

Last year, the University of Georgia fell into the second "quartile," ranking it
somewhere in the category of 52nd-to-102nd-best national universities. The
officials weren't pleased.

"We worked very closely to analyze what is it in their formula that's causing
the university to fail to break into the higher quartile," said Jackson, who
hopes to get all of U.S. News' data on a computer disc so they can "really
crunch some numbers and see how they arrive at their results."

Some rankings rely more on surveys and less on numbers and often paint a prickly
picture of a school. An example was Princeton Review's ranking of Georgia Tech
as the No. 1 school in the unique category of "professors suck all life from
material."

Georgia Tech got a double whammy: Money magazine didn't list it as a best buy
this year, though it made the list last year.

"Their methodology changed; we didn't," said David Arnold, public relations
director for Georgia Tech.

Arnold said rankings are important, but only as part of a variety of information
that potential students should consider. He said he keeps in touch with the
publishing organizations during the ranking process to make sure they have
accurate information.

"Marketing Georgia Tech isn't a lot different from marketing a product, so you
are concerned about the endorsements, testimonials and rankings," Arnold said.
"It's very much a part of everyday life."

At Agnes Scott College, the rankings are "welcome affirmations of the position
we feel we have in higher education," said Sara Pilger, director of
communications. No wonder: Agnes Scott frequently comes out looking good among
liberal arts colleges.

Even if a college wanted to beat the ranking system by putting its best foot
forward on the most important questions, such efforts could backfire.

"Every year they change their questions and they change the importance they give
to each question," said Susan Frost, director of institutional research at Emory
University.

While colleges accept that these rankings have gained importance in the
community at large, she said, they're still not considered a valid picture of a
school.

"You can't take a university and reduce it to a line of numbers," said Frost, a
member of the National Association of Institutional Researchers, which
criticizes the rankings but is learning to live with them. The association tries
to work closely with agencies producing the rankings, Frost said.

In addition to the shots at the magazine's methodology, formulas and
number-crunching, some higher-ups in academia suspect some old-fashioned
truth-stretching among their counterparts.

"Some institutions pad their numbers. These so-called quantified rankings
encourage institutions to be less than honest," said J. Wade Gilley, president
of Marshall University in West Virginia. "I'm leery of things that encourage
people to cross the line."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH942600187

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                              22 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           September 14, 2015 Monday

Campus nets four top U.S. rankings

LENGTH: 406 words

DATELINE: PRESQUE ISLE


- Officials at the University of Maine at Presque Isle have announced that the
institution earned four top rankings on U.S. News and World Report's 2016 Best
Colleges list.


In this year's annual rankings, UMPI was named among the 50 Best Regional
Colleges in the North, the 15 Top Public Schools in the North, and the top 10
Regional Colleges in the North for graduates with least debt.


"We are so pleased to be recognized in this year's U.S. News and World Report's
Best Colleges List and are very honored to have received four rankings for the
hard work we do as an institution to provide a high quality and low-cost
education for our students," UMPI President Linda Schott said.


"We're dedicated to offering an education that puts the student first--both in
terms of personalized learning where they have a voice and choice in what and
how they learn, and in terms of affordability through excellent financial aid
opportunities and low tuition."


In the Best Regional Colleges in the North ranking, UMPI was listed at 40,
moving up six spots and earning first-tier status. The ranking defines regional
colleges as schools that focus on undergraduate education but grant fewer than
half their degrees in liberal arts disciplines. The north region includes Maine,
New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland.


UMPI was 15th in the Top Public Schools ranking list for Regional Colleges in
the North. The ranking defines public colleges and universities as those that
are typically operated under the supervision of state governments and funded, in
part, by tax dollars and subsidies from the state. Such universities often offer
free or discounted tuition to students considered residents of the state.


In its third ranking, the University was short-listed among colleges in the
north for graduates with the lightest debt load. UMPI came in at 7 after the
United States Coast Guard Academy (CT), United States Merchant Marine Academy
(NY), SUNY College of Technology (NY), Farmingdale State College-SUNY (NY),
Cooper Union (NY), and Vermont Technical College (VT).


Garnering its fourth top ranking, UMPI ranked 31 in the Best Colleges for
Veterans among Regional Colleges in the North listing. This ranking spotlights
institutions that are helping veterans to pursue a college education.


U.S. News and World Report has published its Best Colleges rankings since 1983.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Bangor Daily News


                              23 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           September 14, 2015 Monday

Campus nets four top U.S. rankings

LENGTH: 406 words

DATELINE: PRESQUE ISLE


- Officials at the University of Maine at Presque Isle have announced that the
institution earned four top rankings on U.S. News and World Report's 2016 Best
Colleges list.


In this year's annual rankings, UMPI was named among the 50 Best Regional
Colleges in the North, the 15 Top Public Schools in the North, and the top 10
Regional Colleges in the North for graduates with least debt.


"We are so pleased to be recognized in this year's U.S. News and World Report's
Best Colleges List and are very honored to have received four rankings for the
hard work we do as an institution to provide a high quality and low-cost
education for our students," UMPI President Linda Schott said.


"We're dedicated to offering an education that puts the student first--both in
terms of personalized learning where they have a voice and choice in what and
how they learn, and in terms of affordability through excellent financial aid
opportunities and low tuition."


In the Best Regional Colleges in the North ranking, UMPI was listed at 40,
moving up six spots and earning first-tier status. The ranking defines regional
colleges as schools that focus on undergraduate education but grant fewer than
half their degrees in liberal arts disciplines. The north region includes Maine,
New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland.


UMPI was 15th in the Top Public Schools ranking list for Regional Colleges in
the North. The ranking defines public colleges and universities as those that
are typically operated under the supervision of state governments and funded, in
part, by tax dollars and subsidies from the state. Such universities often offer
free or discounted tuition to students considered residents of the state.


In its third ranking, the University was short-listed among colleges in the
north for graduates with the lightest debt load. UMPI came in at 7 after the
United States Coast Guard Academy (CT), United States Merchant Marine Academy
(NY), SUNY College of Technology (NY), Farmingdale State College-SUNY (NY),
Cooper Union (NY), and Vermont Technical College (VT).


Garnering its fourth top ranking, UMPI ranked 31 in the Best Colleges for
Veterans among Regional Colleges in the North listing. This ranking spotlights
institutions that are helping veterans to pursue a college education.


U.S. News and World Report has published its Best Colleges rankings since 1983.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Bangor Daily News


                              24 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Sun

                            October 18, 2004 Monday
                              Correction Appended

Scholars Produce List to Challenge U.S. News College Rankings

BYLINE: By ALEXIS SWERDLOFF, Staff Reporter of the Sun

SECTION: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 863 words


U.S. News & World Report's position at the top of the college-rankings heap may
be on the line.

The magazine's influential rankings are being challenged by a quartet of
scholars who seek to apply what is essentially a market test to evaluating
colleges and universities.

The new rankings, reported last week in the Chronicle of Higher Education,
emerged from a paper by four scholars who developed a system based on so-called
revealed preferences - where those high-school students who were accepted at two
or more colleges ultimately chose to enroll.

Princeton, which was ranked first by U.S. News, fell to sixth in the new
rankings, while Duke plummeted to 19th from fifth and Georgetown jumped to 16th
from 25th.

The study was based on information gathered from 3,240 high-school students who
graduated from selective and competitive American high schools in 2000.

Schools in New York City were relatively stable in the new ranking system, with
NYU dropping to 39th place from 32nd and Fordham to 74th from 70th, while
Columbia inched up to eighth place from ninth.

Comparing the two lists side by side, it can be seen that the U.S. News chart
takes ties into account - for example, Northwestern and Washington Universities
tied for 11th place, with Brown following at 13. In the chart based on revealed
preferences, there are no ties.

In addition, colleges and universities are lumped together in the list based on
revealed preferences, whereas U.S. News ranks colleges and universities
separately, on two different charts.

Historically, college-ranking systems have come under fire from people who say
they encourage schools to manipulate their numbers, such as matriculation and
admission rates, to gain higher standings. The authors of the new report -
Christopher Avery of Harvard University, Mark Glickman of Boston University,
Caroline Minter Hoxby of Harvard University, and Andrew Metrick of the
University of Pennsylvania - attack rankings such as U.S. News's for inducing "
colleges to engage in distorted conduct that decreases the college's real
selectivity while increasing the college's apparent selectivity."

The authors said the model using revealed preferences, based on the formulas
used to rank players at chess tournaments, creates an actual market measure by
which to rank colleges. A ranking system based on students' preferences,
essentially the desirability level of each school, eliminates the need for the
widely criticized "arbitrary" formulas used by U.S. News, they said.

An associate professor of health services at Boston University, Mr. Glickman,
who oversaw the study's statistical analysis, said: "You get a real sense of
which schools are preferred to others based on what students actually do, rather
than seeing a ranking based on specific, rather arbitrary characteristics, which
can be manipulated by the colleges."

Some see flaws in the study. The director of data research at U.S. News, Robert
Morse, said the authors set up a false claim by which to criticize the
newsmagazine. "We don't use the matriculation rate anymore in our rankings - we
dropped that two years ago," he said.

He said the academics' study, while it deserves to be looked at, "is in no way a
substitute for what we're doing."

In response to the assertion that U.S. News's data can be manipulated, Mr. Morse
fired back that the new study could not be carried out nationally. "They made
arrangements with guidance counselors to get admissions data," he said, adding
that the process could not be carried out on "a massive enough scale to get a
statistically significant sample that is representative of all the high
schools."

An editor at Washington Monthly who last year wrote a skeptical critique of the
college rankings system for Atlantic Monthly, Nicholas Confessore, said he
thinks "all college rankings are stupid," and the new one particularly so. "The
authors are correct that college guides like U.S. News do not provide very
useful evaluations of academic quality, but their rankings assume that
high-school students, before they even get to college, are good judges of how
good a school is," Mr. Confessore said.

While colleges can manipulate the U.S. News rankings, he said, the "revealed
preference" study is based in large part on a school's reputation. "And when
you're talking about 'reputation,'" Mr. Confessore said, "it's the U.S. News
rankings in the first place that produce these bogus and endlessly
self-reinforcing estimations of how good a college is."

In the end, he said, the study is just an extension of the U.S. News rankings.
"This study," the Washington journalist said, "is basically revealing how much
the students have bought into the standard of quality that U.S. News puts out."

A columnist for the Washington Post and Newsweek, Robert Samuelson, wrote a
column called "In Praise of Rankings" for the summer 2004 "Kaplan College Guide.
"While he said yesterday he strongly believes that rankings do a good job of
"reflecting the status consciousness of American culture and society," he
worried that within the revealed-preference system, a school's ranking "has more
to do with its prestige and status, not so much with the quality of education."

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 19, 2004



CORRECTION: Cornell University is no. 15 on the 'revealed preference' rankings
of colleges that appeared on Page 2 of yesterday's New York Sun. An incorrect
institution was named.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The New York Sun, Two SL, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times Herald (California)

                            February 12, 2012 Sunday

Putting an end to the false data

BYLINE: Published By Times Herald

SECTION: OUR VIEW

LENGTH: 476 words


College rankings, such as the one U.S. News & World Report has published each
year since 1983, may provide some interesting reading, but they are hardly the
sole basis on which anyone should choose which school to attend.

In fact, the magazine itself agrees, telling readers, "Don't rely solely on
rankings to choose a college" but to "think of the rankings as one tool for
selecting a college." There are many other reasons and sources of information
that need to be considered in selecting a college, U.S. News advised.

Unfortunately, there are those who are so enamored by high rankings that they
forget this advice.

Among them are some college officials who have regarded the rankings to be so
important that they presented false or misleading information about their
schools.

The latest scandal regarding the rankings is the admission by Claremont McKenna
College, a pricey institution in Southern California, which was ranked ninth
among liberal arts colleges by U.S. News.

Richard C. Vos, vice president and dean of admissions, who resigned, admitted he
had been giving inflated average SAT scores to the magazine since 2005.

Claremont McKenna is not alone in lying about test scores and other data used in
college rankings.

Last fall, Iona College in New Rochelle, N.Y., acknowledged that its employees
had lied for years about test scores, graduation rates, freshman retention,
student-faculty ratio, acceptance rates and alumni giving, according to The New
York Times.

If accurate information had been provided to U.S. News, Iona's ranking of 30th
among "regional universities" in the Northeast, would have dropped to an
estimated 50th place.

In 2008, Baylor University offered financial rewards to admitted students for
retaking the SAT in hopes of increasing its average score.

Another way to game the ranking system is to delay admission of low-scoring
students until January, excluding them from averages for the class admitted in
September. Also, some colleges seek more applications to report a lower
percentage of students accepted.

The New York Times reported that last year, law schools at Villanova University
and the University of Illinois said they had misreported some statistics. In
2009, a number of schools were found to be inflating their percentages of
full-time professors.

These tactics not only undermine the validity of the rankings, but more
significantly, they also demean the colleges that feel they must lie or game the
ranking system to elevate the public perception of their schools.

We hope that revelations about Claremont McKenna's dishonesty will send a signal
to all universities and colleges to provide accurate data about their schools
not just to those doing the rankings but to the public.

More important, the scandal should make students and parents more wary of the
rankings and less reliant on them in choosing a college.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            June 20, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Liberal arts colleges may drop out of 'U.S. News' rankings;
They say reports are flawed

BYLINE: Mary Beth Marklein

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 9D

LENGTH: 606 words


They didn't call for an all-out boycott, but presidents of dozens of liberal
arts colleges signaled their intent Tuesday to stop cooperating with U.S. News &
World Report's college rankings.

What that means exactly is not spelled out. Because most college presidents must
answer to trustees, faculty and other constituents, "the decision to participate
or withdraw from the U.S. News rankings rests with the individual institutions,"
says a statement released Tuesday by the Annapolis Group, whose members include
121 liberal arts colleges.

Even so, "the majority" of the 80 presidents who attended the group's annual
meeting in Annapolis, Md., "expressed their intent not to participate in the
annual ... ranking exercise."

The group also said it would work with other organizations to develop a
Web-based alternative to rankings that would provide parents and students with
meaningful ways to compare schools. Among those with whom it said it is already
in contact are the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities
and the Council of Independent Colleges, both Washington, D.C.-based
associations for private colleges and universities.

College presidents have been complaining for years that the rankings are flawed,
but momentum has been building in recent years as more critics step forward to
challenge the value of the magazine's annual feature. Complaints generally
center on concern that rankings unfairly boil an institution down to a single
number that obscures its uniqueness and that the rankings process encourages
colleges to waste valuable resources as they try to game the system.

Last month, 12 college presidents circulated a letter urging hundreds of their
colleagues to refuse to use the rankings to promote their institutions and to
refuse to fill out a U.S. News survey in which they're asked to evaluate peers.
At least 22 more presidents have signed on since then.

Among Annapolis Group members, who represent many of the liberal arts colleges
that show up in U.S. News' top-ranked schools, the issue began to bubble up this
spring during an informal e-mail discussion about the reputational survey.

"We're just kind of fed up with this attempt to quantify everything," says Chris
Nelson, president of St. John's College in Annapolis and a former chair of the
Annapolis Group.

Nelson has not responded to U.S. News requests for information for years. But
other college presidents say they can't act unilaterally.

"The pressure on the president comes from the board of trustees, which devour
rankings, metrics and numbers with a passion," says Frances Lucas, president of
Millsaps College in Jackson, Miss. Though she has filled out the peer-evaluation
survey before, she says, she won't do so next year.

No binding vote was taken Tuesday. But "it did surprise me a bit that there was
so much consensus among the group (about) rankings and our obligation to provide
good information (to families during the search process). It was palpable," says
Kate Will, chair of the group and president of Gettysburg (Pa.) College.

U.S. News editor Brian Kelly says he applauds the group's plan to make more data
accessible online. He also says he is pleased that no one called for a
collective boycott.

"The fact that they're not doing anything as a body, that's reassuring," Kelly
says.  "We're not concerned about the viability of the rankings."

But anti-rankings advocate Lloyd Thacker of Portland, Ore., a former college
admissions officer, says the magazine has reason to worry.

"This wasn't a win for U.S. News. This was a loss," Thacker says.

"It's finally beginning to hit. We may have reached a tipping point."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, St. John's College

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDUCATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                             July 31, 2007 Tuesday

College ranking system divides administrators;
U.S. News' rubric does not appeal to some in higher education.

BYLINE: REBECCA QUIGLEY

SECTION: Pg. B-8

LENGTH: 745 words


ATHENS -- The University of Georgia touts its U.S. News & World Report best
colleges ranking -- 60th among all schools in the country and 21st among public
schools -- but some students and college leaders say the numbers shouldn't be
taken seriously.

Administrators from some of the nation's liberal arts colleges have started
raising their voices against the way U.S. News judges schools' academic programs
and, until the publisher makes a change, are boycotting part of the ranking
system.

But U.S. News is the most consistent and long-running college rating system, so
UGA officials continue to cite the university's ranking, said Nancy McDuff,
associate vice president for admissions and enrollment management. "It's part of
what we use to get our name out there," she said.

U.S. News is expected to release its 2008 college rankings in a couple of weeks.

But dozens of private liberal arts colleges, including Wesleyan College in Macon
and Eckerd College in St. Petersburg, Fla. -- whose president, Donald Eastman,
used to be a top administrator at UGA -- have joined an organized boycott of a
large section of the magazine's rankings.

Wesleyan's president, Ruth Knox, a graduate of UGA's School of Law, recently
announced that she supports the boycott along with other college administrators
who oppose the magazine's peer assessment section.

The section, based on college and university officials' judgments of the other
universities on the list, inaccurately represents the quality of a school's
programs, faculty and students, Knox and other liberal arts college presidents
have said.

Knox wants the rating system to consider factors like small class size, student
engagement and graduates' career successes, said college spokeswoman Susan
Welsh.

"U.S. News is not reflective of those types of [factors]," Welsh said.

U.S. News ranked Wesleyan in the third tier of liberal arts colleges, but the
college has received high scores in some categories such as racial diversity and
small class size.

Schools that receive a higher ranking, based only on other college leaders'
opinions, also often have more name recognition because their marketing budgets
are larger, Welsh said.

Wesleyan, along with other colleges, will stop printing its rankings in new
publications and downplay the rankings in other materials it provides to
prospective students, she said.

Despite increasing protests and boycotts from some college presidents, U.S. News
plans to continue publishing the rankings in the same way, said magazine
spokeswoman Cynthia Powell.

UGA's rank in U.S. News & World Report top 100 colleges made no difference to
Brian Levy, who, like many college-bound Georgians, knew he wanted an education
at Georgia.

The U.S. News rankings really aren't a big deal to a student choosing a college
or grad school -- "no student would make a choice based on what the ranking is,"
said Levy, who graduated from UGA in May with a bachelor's degree in sociology
and religion.

Even though Levy wanted to attend a graduate school with a top public policy
program, how the schools ranked against each other made little difference
compared with how his interests fit with the program and the faculty, he said.

"I wanted to get an idea of the sorts of schools that had a focus in public
policy," Levy said, adding that the U.S. News rankings gave him a list of
universities to start from.

Levy's top choice was Harvard, which held the No. 2 spot when U.S. News last
ranked public affairs schools in 2004, but ended up going to the lower-ranked
University of Texas at Austin, he said.

"The rankings were important to me at the beginning ... but as I got into the
process, the school itself was more important," he said. "I don't think U.S.
News was a litmus test for where I was going to apply."

Darlene Rodriguez chose UGA's School of Public and International Affairs for her
doctorate, but not because it tied at No. 3 with Indiana University in the U.S.
News rankings.

Like Levy, Rodriguez went to college in her home state and didn't pay any mind
to U.S. News until it was time to apply for graduate school.

Rodriguez relied more on professors' advice and other guides that give minority
applicants a sense of which schools have better services, support networks and
other cultural resources that "help students see what the climate is at that
institution."

"Publications like U.S. News & World Report don't give you that perspective,"
she said. "[But] it's the best standard we have, so we use it."

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Florida Times-Union


                              28 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Inside Bay Area (California)

                             August 17, 2007 Friday

Opposition to college ranking data grows

BYLINE: By Matt Krupnick, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: TRI-VALLEY

LENGTH: 964 words


It's the toughest time of the year for Lloyd Thacker to stand in a supermarket
line.

With U.S. News & World Report's annual college rankings hitting news racks
Monday -- the rankings are available online today -- Thacker will be spending a
lot of time looking at the publication he has dedicated himself to resisting.

Thacker, who directs the Oregon-based Education Conservancy, has led the growing
nationwide opposition to the

24-year-old U.S. News rankings, which he sees as the epitome of commercialized
higher education. Colleges should not be ranked based on a uniform scale, he
said.

"It has distorted and skewed how (college) admissions areperceived," said
Thacker, a former college counselor. "Their impact far exceeds their educational
relevance."

As of Thursday, Thacker had gathered signatures from more than 60 college
presidents who have vowed to stop completing a major portion of the magazine's
annual survey, which analyzes

1,400 schools across the United States. The disputed section, which accounts for
a quarter of a school's score, rates a college's reputation among its peers.

Among the institutions refusing to rate their competitors' reputations are St.
Mary's College in Moraga and San Francisco State University.

In their hunger for higher rankings, some colleges have increased the number of
scholarships for top-performing students, Thacker said. That system skews
colleges toward more affluent students, while hurting low-income students who
tend to have lower test scores.

Although college administrators have long grumbled at the popularity and effects
of the U.S. News rankings, school leaders have organized in opposition more than
in years past. Thacker's group is planning a September meeting at Yale
University to discuss alternative ranking systems.

Nevertheless, U.S. News remains a major player in the world of college choice.
At least 97 percent of the schools that participated in this year's U.S. News
rankings plan to continue to do so, according to a survey of more than 300
admissions officers released this week by Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions.

With thousands of colleges and universities available to students, the magazine
is merely providing people a research tool, said U.S. News Editor Brian Kelly.
Critics say the influential lists lead schools to spend too much money in
specific areas to boost their rankings.

"I think we get blamed for a lot of colleges' behavior that isn't our fault,"
Kelly told reporters Thursday. "The kind of behavior they're talking about here
is often behavior that is good for the schools."

The rankings reward colleges for small class sizes, student-retention and
graduation rates, and financial resources. A quarter of each school's overall
score is based on the opinions of administrators at other colleges.

The rankings continue to hold considerable sway for many graduating high-school
seniors -- especially those at the most competitive high schools.

"I wasn't looking at any particular book, but you always know the rankings
anyway," said

17-year-old Orinda native Hayley Andrews, who is preparing to attend New York's
Barnard College, ranked 30th among liberal-arts schools by U.S. News. "It would
be hard for me or my friends to explain to people why we turned down a school
that was ranked higher than the school we chose."

The magazine this year tweaked its rankings to compensate for the effects of
low-income students, whose graduation rates are lower.

Despite the change, some administrators say the rankings just don't tell
students enough about a college.

"The kind of work that U.S. News & World Report does doesn't really get to the
heart of what we do here at St. Mary's," said Michael Beseda, the Moraga
college's vice provost for enrollment. "They've narrowed the discussion in this
country of what an undergraduate education should be."

St. Mary's ranked 11th in the western United States this year among colleges
that grant no higher than a master's degree.

But Beseda said he prefers surveys that measure student engagement, in which St.
Mary's scores well.

But at University of California, Berkeley, the top-ranked public university in
the country this year, administrators say the lists offer valuable information
when taken in the context of other sources. Any rankings systems will have its
flaws and critics, said Christine Maslach, the university's vice provost for
undergraduate education.

"You always have to take these with a grain of salt," she said. "There's
probably a variety of places where a student would do well."

While an increasing number of college leaders believe they can attract students
without participating in rankings, the dilemma causes more consternation among
law school deans. U.S. News publishes the only widely read law school rankings,
which have led some schools to take drastic actions to improve their scores,
said Christopher Edley, dean of UC Berkeley's Boalt Hall School of Law.

One prominent school is considering admitting students based solely on
entrance-exam scores in order to attain a better rank, Edley said.

"By and large, the rankings are a force of evil," said Edley, who nevertheless
speaks frequently of the importance of Boalt's place on the U.S. News list.
"Many good things flow from high rankings. And that's the problem right there."

A highly ranked school attracts more donations, better students and top
professors, he said. For a publicly funded school, where class sizes are larger
and endowments are smaller, it's tough to ignore the rankings.

"A school like Berkeley definitely suffers with the way the rankings are
constructed," Edley said. "We make choices about how we design education here,
and we can be proud of it, but we can't expect it to be universally respected."

Contact Matt Krupnick (925) 943-8246 or mkrupnick@bayareanewsgroup.com .

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STUDENTS arrive for the start of the fall semesterat the University of
California, Berkeley on Thursday. (LAURA ODA Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                             August 26, 2012 Sunday
                                  Main Edition

Higher Education Emory scandal;
College rankings' validity, usefulness at issue

BYLINE: Laura Diamond, Craig Schneider; Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1570 words



HIGHLIGHT: Misrepresentations emanate from schools' high-stakes 'selling.'


College rankings are so important to the Taylor family that even fifth-grader
Lauren studies them. The Atlanta girl, who dreams of oceangoing trips in
research vessels, has already narrowed her search to a few schools.

Her dad, Winston Taylor Jr., said the family finds rankings useful but also
takes them with a grain of salt. The father of three, including a high school
sophomore, said he suspected that rankings were flawed even before Emory
University disclosed last week that it intentionally submitted inflated data for
them.

"I've always questioned the rankings' validity," Taylor said. "It's marketing,
and when we talk about marketing, it's selling."

Emory's misrepresentation reignited a deep debate over college rankings. Even as
many parents, students and college officials criticize the lists, U.S. News &
World Report averages 15 million page views on its website when its new ranking
comes out. The next edition will be released Sept. 12.

Critics say the lists can't be trusted, especially because they rely on data
supplied by the schools and go through little fact-checking. They challenge the
notion that a mathematical formula can sum up a college --- its campus culture,
the accessibility of its teachers, its academic quality. Making a decision based
on rankings also can lead a student to the wrong school, a potentially expensive
lesson.

Many parents won't even consider sending children to colleges that fail to earn
high marks.

Colleges that nab a top spot advertise it in promotional materials. A strong
ranking brings academic prestige, bragging rights and higher achieving students.

Some schools create policies to boost their standing, said Amanda Griffith, a
Wake Forest University economics professor.

"They can fudge the data any way they want," said Griffith, who has studied how
students select colleges. "Colleges want to be ranked high, and students are
under the very same pressure to go to the best school possible."

There's gaming of the numbers just short of wrongdoing, experts said. Baylor
University in Texas faced criticism in 2008 for paying already admitted students
to retake the SAT in hopes of boosting the college's overall average and its
rankings.

Emory hasn't determined why and when the misreporting began, but experts noted
the pressure to remain a Top 20 school in U.S. News. Emory has been in this tier
for 19 years.

"There is pressure to lie about the data or manipulate it," said Mark Schneider,
a vice president with the American Institutes for Research. "Colleges say, 'I
want the best students in the country to apply,' and the best way to do that is
to be a Top 20 school."

Defenders of the system say the rankings are valuable, allowing families to
easily compare many schools and exposing students to schools they've never heard
of.

U.S. News & World Report is the granddaddy of college rankings, but dozens of
rankings groups measure higher education, including Forbes, Kiplinger and
Princeton Review. These publications publish lists on most-wired campuses and
school environmental policies and even quality of cafeteria food. Nearly every
college can find some ranking to be proud of and promote, and many do.

Brian Kelly, U.S. News editor and chief content officer, said that when the
magazine first published rankings nearly 30 years ago, the goal was to provide
hard information on the complex and confusing world of higher education.

The group calculates rankings using test scores, faculty salaries, per-pupil
spending and other data. It also relies on surveys that call on college
officials and sometimes high school guidance counselors to rate other
institutions' academic programs.

"We are just giving people the numbers, and they make their own decisions,"
Kelly said.

Cheating is rare, he said. The publication has ways to ensure accuracy, such as
cross-checking information with different sources. Its site says faculty
salaries are compared with information from the American Association of
University Professors. Data on admissions, tuition and financial aid is checked
against the National Center for Education Statistics, Kelly said.

Results still can be wrong, he acknowledged. Emory this month admitted that it
sent faulty information to databases used by rankings publications and the
national statistics center.

"Some of the data is checkable," Kelly said. "But if somebody is intent on
cheating --- just like on Wall Street --- it's really hard to catch them."

Emory said its new dean of admissions noticed the data discrepancy in May, which
triggered an internal investigation. None of those responsible still work at
Emory, officials said.

College officials guaranteed U.S. News that they provided accurate information
for the September rankings.

"We're certainly going to take a much closer look at their data," Kelly said.
Emory's listing on the U.S. News website is now accompanied by an asterisk and
notes that the school supplied incorrect data for the current college edition.

Emory isn't the first school to send in false results. Iona College in New York
and Claremont McKenna College in California recently admitted to it, as well.

Too many families depend on the rankings, said Joni Towles, a private counselor
who advises metro Atlanta parents on college selection. Parents seem more
concerned about them than students.

"I do spend a lot of my time trying to get beyond the rankings," Towles said.

Jeffrey Stake, a law professor at Indiana University law school, for 14 years
has run a website that warns of "ranking mania."

"There are lies, damned lies, statistics and rankings," the website says. He
defined this mania as "paying too much attention to the rankings and looking for
status vs. making the right fit for a person."

The Taylors are not taking chances. As they eye colleges for Winston III, the
high school sophomore, they're taking summer trips to college campuses, combing
the Web for insight and talking to counselors, administrators and current
students.

Emory provided incorrect numbers for more than a decade, according to its own
investigation.

The school reported SAT and ACT data for admitted students instead of enrolled
students. That artificially inflated Emory's test scores. The college also
overstated how many of its incoming students graduated in the top 10 percent of
their high school class.

U.S. News officials said the false reporting would not have changed Emory's No.
20 ranking the past two years. It would have had a "small to negligible effect"
in the several years prior, they said.

Kelly of U.S. News said they did not review a decade's worth of rankings for
Emory.

"They could have done things in the 1990s to establish themselves in the
rankings and at some level they just wanted to stay in the top 20," Kelly said.

Some colleges don't blatantly cheat, but they take steps to boost results,
experts said.

In 2009, an administrator at Clemson University said the school increased
admission standards, hiked faculty salaries and instituted smaller classes ---
all to improve the school's standing. Other schools increase student merit aid
to attract better performers.

Then again, as Kelly observed, what's wrong with lowering class sizes,
attracting stronger professors and improving retention rates?

"If they're following good educational practices, that's not a bad thing," he
said.

Widdie Gordon and his mother, Chelsea, carefully chose the college for the
high-schooler who wants to make films. Widdie, a junior at Hapeville Charter
Career Academy, is taking college classes while in high school.

Mother and son visited several colleges, talked to school officials and
students, sat in on classes --- and checked the rankings.

When they saw some high rankings for Atlanta Technical College, that helped seal
the deal.

It also made Widdie more nervous about attending. "I thought it would be
challenging, that I would have to work harder," he said.

As for the Taylor family, Lauren, the fifth- grader, is focusing on one college
in Florida and another in California. She looked up the schools' overall
rankings and the standings of departments of study, her father said. Lauren also
is pushing her dad for a trip to California next summer, so she can visit one of
the schools.

Rankings Calculations

U.S. News & World Report says it uses qualitative measures that experts say
indicate academic quality as well as its own research showing what matters. Each
indicator can contain multiple parts. Percentages listed reflect the weighting
used for "National Universities," the category that includes Emory University.

Undergraduate academic reputation: 22.5 percent

Opinions of those in a position to judge a school's academic excellence.

Retention: 20 percent

Percentage of freshmen returning for sophomore year.

Faculty resources: 20 percent

Includes class size, faculty salaries and student-faculty ratio.

Student selectivity: 15 percent Includes acceptance rates, SAT and ACT scores
and the proportion of students who are in the top 10 percent of their high
school classes.

Financial resources:

10 percent

Spending per student on instruction, research and other related services.
Excludes sports, dorms and hospital spending.

Graduation rate performance: 7.5 percent

Shows the effect of programs and policies on graduation rates. Controls for
spending and student characteristics.

Alumni giving:

5 percent

Provides indirect measure of student satisfaction.

Source: U.S. News & World Report, Sept. 12, 2011 explanation of calculations

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2012 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              30 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                          September 10, 2015 Thursday

New College lands a No. 4 ranking

BYLINE: Shelby Webb shelby.webb@heraldtribune.com

SECTION: B; FL News; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 509 words


EDUCATION

SARASOTA - New College was named a top public liberal arts college and a leader
for graduating students with less student loan debt by the U.S. News and World
Report's 2016 college rankings.

New College ranked fourth-best among nine public liberal arts colleges and tied
for 82nd-best overall liberal arts college among 245 nationally. It moved up one
slot from last year in the best public liberal arts category and was ranked five
positions higher for all liberal arts schools. It was also named 15th-best
nationally for students who have the least debt at graduation, with 2014
graduates owing about $17,553 on average.

While many national websites and publications now draft their own college
rankings, U.S. News and World Report's is among the most popular. Administrators
routinely chart their institutions' numbers in the rankings, using high marks in
promotional materials. The University of Florida, for example, still touts its
2013 U.S. News and World Report ranking as 14th top public university on its
website. New College's website boasts Forbes Magazine and Princeton Review 2015
rankings that name it a "best buy" school on its website.

Stephen Miles, provost and vice president for academic affairs at New College,
said he is elated by the results but thinks the celebration will be short-lived.

"As much as we enjoy the rankings, we focus on things we do best," Miles said.
"We might take a moment to celebrate, but our focus is on high academic
standards, rigorous curriculum, and to pay close attention to students and their
interests."

Editors with U.S. News and World Report said the rankings focus on academic
excellence, with schools ranked on up to 16 measures of academic quality. The
rankings emphasize outcomes, with graduation and retention rates carrying the
most weight in the methodology at 30 percent.

Other rankings in which New College placed were for strong reputation among high
school guidance counselors, at 57th nationally, and best college for veterans,
at 60th nationally.

But the rankings also include figures that favor more established, wealthier
colleges by measuring school reputation surveys, student selectivity, faculty
resources, alumni giving, graduation and retention rates and total spending per
student on education.

Miles said some of those factors put New College at a disadvantage compared to
private colleges.

"We're young and we're small," Miles said. "We just don't have that many
graduates. Schools that have been around for a long time, even if they're small,
have the alumni support."

He added a high percentage of New College alumni, about 15 percent, give money
to the school, second in the state to the 17 percent of Florida State University
alumni who donate.

In the category of an education's cost to the student, New College has earned
praise in national rankings, including from U.S. News and World Report.

"We're offering world-class education. The kind that can cost $100,000 from a
private institution, we're offering that at a fraction of the cost," Miles said.
"Affordability matters."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EDUCATION SARASOTA - New College was named a top public liberal arts
college and a leader for graduating students with less student loan debt by the
U.S. News and World Report's 2016 college rankings. New College ranked
fourth-best among nine public liberal arts colleges and tied for 82nd-best
overall liberal arts college among 245 nationally. It moved up one slot from
last year in the best public liberal arts category and was ranked five positions
higher for all liberal arts schools. It was also named 15th-best nationally for
students who have the least debt at graduation, with 2014 graduates owing about
$17,553 on average.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Inside Bay Area (California)

                             August 17, 2007 Friday

College rankings rankle, but their influence persists

BYLINE: By Matt Krupnick, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Tribune; Times-Star

LENGTH: 979 words


It's the toughest time of the year for Lloyd Thacker to stand in a supermarket
line.

With U.S. News & World Report's annual college rankings hitting news racks
Monday -- the rankings are available online today -- Thacker will be spending a
lot of time looking at the publication he has dedicated himself to resisting.

Thacker, who directs the Oregon-based Education Conservancy, has led the growing
nationwide opposition to the 24-year-old U.S. News rankings, which he sees as
the epitome of commercialized higher education. Colleges should not be ranked
based on a uniform scale, he said.

"It has distorted and skewed how (college) admissions are perceived," said
Thacker, a former college counselor. "Their impact far exceeds their educational
relevance."

As of Thursday, Thacker had gathered signatures from more than 60 college
presidents who have vowed to stop completing a major portion of the magazine's
annual survey, which analyzes 1,400 schools across the United States. The
disputed section, which accounts for a quarter of a school's score, rates a
college's reputation among its peers.

Among the institutions refusing to rate their competitors' reputations are St.
Mary's College in Moraga and San Francisco State University.

In their hunger for higher rankings, some colleges have increased the number of
scholarships for top-performing students, Thacker said. That system skews
colleges toward more affluent students, while hurting low-income students who
tend to have lower test scores.

Although college administrators have long grumbled at the popularity and effects
of the U.S. News rankings, school leaders have organized in opposition more than
in years past. Thacker's group is planning a September meeting at Yale
University to discuss alternative ranking systems.

Nevertheless, U.S. News remains a major player in the world of college choice.
At least 97 percent of the schools that participated in this year's U.S. News
rankings plan to continue to do so, according to a survey of more than 300
admissions officers released this week by Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions.

With thousands of colleges and universities available to students, the magazine
is merely providing people a research tool, said U.S. News EditorBrian Kelly.
Critics say the influential lists lead schools to spend too much money in
specific areas to boost their rankings.

"I think we get blamed for a lot of colleges' behavior that isn't our fault,"
Kelly told reporters Thursday. "The kind of behavior they're talking about here
is often behavior that is good for the schools."

The rankings reward colleges for small class sizes, student-retention and
graduation rates, and financial resources. A quarter of each school's overall
score is based on the opinions of administrators at other colleges.

The rankings continue to hold considerable sway for many graduating high-school
seniors -- especially those at the most competitive high schools.

"I wasn't looking at any particular book, but you always know the rankings
anyway," said 17-year-old Orinda native Hayley Andrews, who is preparing to
attend New York's Barnard College, ranked 30th among liberal-arts schools by
U.S. News. "It would be hard for me or my friends to explain to people why we
turned down a school that was ranked higher than the school we chose."

The magazine this year tweaked its rankings to compensate for the effects of
low-income students, whose graduation rates are lower.

Despite the change, some administrators say the rankings just don't tell
students enough about a college.

"The kind of work that U.S. News & World Report does doesn't really get to the
heart of what we do here at St. Mary's," said Michael Beseda, the Moraga
college's vice provost for enrollment. "They've narrowed the discussion in this
country of what an undergraduate education should be.

"Any informed educator who thoughtfully thinks about the ranking systems
realizes they are inadequate."

St. Mary's ranked 11th in the western United States this year among colleges
that grant no higher than a master's degree. But Beseda said he prefers surveys
that measure student engagement, in which St. Mary's scores well.

But at University of California, Berkeley, the top-ranked public university in
the country this year, administrators say the lists offer valuable information
when taken in the context of other sources. Any rankings systems will have its
flaws and critics, said Christine Maslach, vice provost for undergraduate
education.

"You always have to take these with a grain of salt," she said. "There's
probably a variety of places where a student would do well."

While an increasing number of college leaders believe they can attract students
without participating in rankings, the dilemma causes more consternation among
lawschool deans. U.S. News publishes the only widely read lawschool rankings,
which have led some schools to take drastic actions to improve their scores,
said Christopher Edley, dean of UC Berkeley's Boalt Hall School of Law.

One prominent school is considering admitting students based solely on
entrance-exam scores in order to attain a better rank, Edley said.

"By and large, the rankings are a force of evil," said Edley, who nevertheless
speaks frequently of the importance of Boalt's place on the U.S. News list.
"Many good things flow from high rankings. And that's the problem right there."

A highly ranked school attracts more donations, better students and top
professors, he said. For a publicly funded school, where class sizes are larger
and endowments are smaller, it's tough to ignore the rankings.

"A school like Berkeley definitely suffers with the way the rankings are
constructed," Edley said. "We make choices about how we design education here,
and we can be proud of it, but we can't expect it to be universally respected."

Contact Matt Krupnick (925) 943-8246 or mkrupnick@bayareanewsgroup.com .

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STUDENTS arrive for the start of the fall semesterat the University of
California, Berkeley on Thursday. (LAURA ODA Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Inside Bay Area (California)

                             August 20, 2007 Monday

College rankings rankle, but their influence persists

BYLINE: By Matt Krupnick, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SAN MATEO

LENGTH: 979 words


It's the toughest time of the year for Lloyd Thacker to stand in a supermarket
line.

With U.S. News & World Report's annual college rankings hitting news racks
Monday -- the rankings are available online today -- Thacker will be spending a
lot of time looking at the publication he has dedicated himself to resisting.

Thacker, who directs the Oregon-based Education Conservancy, has led the growing
nationwide opposition to the 24-year-old U.S. News rankings, which he sees as
the epitome of commercialized higher education. Colleges should not be ranked
based on a uniform scale, he said.

"It has distorted and skewed how (college) admissions are perceived," said
Thacker, a former college counselor. "Their impact far exceeds their educational
relevance."

As of Thursday, Thacker had gathered signatures from more than 60 college
presidents who have vowed to stop completing a major portion of the magazine's
annual survey, which analyzes 1,400 schools across the United States. The
disputed section, which accounts for a quarter of a school's score, rates a
college's reputation among its peers.

Among the institutions refusing to rate their competitors' reputations are St.
Mary's College in Moraga and San Francisco State University.

In their hunger for higher rankings, some colleges have increased the number of
scholarships for top-performing students, Thacker said. That system skews
colleges toward more affluent students, while hurting low-income students who
tend to have lower test scores.

Although college administrators have long grumbled at the popularity and effects
of the U.S. News rankings, school leaders have organized in opposition more than
in years past. Thacker's group is planning a September meeting at Yale
University to discuss alternative ranking systems.

Nevertheless, U.S. News remains a major player in the world of college choice.
At least 97 percent of the schools that participated in this year's U.S. News
rankings plan to continue to do so, according to a survey of more than 300
admissions officers released this week by Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions.

With thousands of colleges and universities available to students, the magazine
is merely providing people a research tool, said U.S. News Editor Brian Kelly.
Critics say the influential lists lead schools to spend too much money in
specific areas to boost their rankings.

"I think we get blamed for a lot of colleges' behavior that isn't our fault,"
Kelly told reporters Thursday. "The kind of behavior they're talking about here
is often behavior that is good for the schools."

The rankings reward colleges for small class sizes, student-retention and
graduation rates, and financial resources. A quarter of each school's overall
score is based on the opinions of administrators at other colleges.

The rankings continue to hold considerable sway for many graduating high-school
seniors -- especially those at the most competitive high schools.

"I wasn't looking at any particular book, but you always know the rankings
anyway," said 17-year-old Orinda native Hayley Andrews, who is preparing to
attend New York's Barnard College, ranked 30th among liberal-arts schools by
U.S. News. "It would be hard for me or my friends to explain to people why we
turned down a school that was ranked higher than the school we chose."

The magazine this year tweaked its rankings to compensate for the effects of
low-income students, whose graduation rates are lower.

Despite the change, some administrators say the rankings just don't tell
students enough about a college.

"The kind of work that U.S. News & World Report does doesn't really get to the
heart of what we do here at St. Mary's," said Michael Beseda, the Moraga
college's vice provost for enrollment. "They've narrowed the discussion in this
country of what an undergraduate education should be.

"Any informed educator who thoughtfully thinks about the ranking systems
realizes they are inadequate."

St. Mary's ranked 11th in the western United States this year among colleges
that grant no higher than a master's degree. But Beseda said he prefers surveys
that measure student engagement, in which St. Mary's scores well.

But at University of California, Berkeley, the top-ranked public university in
the country this year, administrators say the lists offer valuable information
when taken in the context of other sources. Any rankings systems will have its
flaws and critics, said Christine Maslach, vice provost for undergraduate
education.

"You always have to take these with a grain of salt," she said. "There's
probably a variety of places where a student would do well."

While an increasing number of college leaders believe they can attract students
without participating in rankings, the dilemma causes more consternation among
lawschool deans. U.S. News publishes the only widely read lawschool rankings,
which have led some schools to take drastic actions to improve their scores,
said Christopher Edley, dean of UC Berkeley's Boalt Hall School of Law.

One prominent school is considering admitting students based solely on
entrance-exam scores in order to attain a better rank, Edley said.

"By and large, the rankings are a force of evil," said Edley, who nevertheless
speaks frequently of the importance of Boalt's place on the U.S. News list.
"Many good things flow from high rankings. And that's the problem right there."

A highly ranked school attracts more donations, better students and top
professors, he said. For a publicly funded school, where class sizes are larger
and endowments are smaller, it's tough to ignore the rankings.

"A school like Berkeley definitely suffers with the way the rankings are
constructed," Edley said. "We make choices about how we design education here,
and we can be proud of it, but we can't expect it to be universally respected."

Contact Matt Krupnick (925) 943-8246 or mkrupnick@bayareanewsgroup.com .

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Day (New London, Connecticut)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           September 13, 2016 Tuesday

Conn College No. 50 in college rankings

BYLINE: Lee Howard, The Day, New London, Conn.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 331 words


Sept. 13--Connecticut College slid two notches to No. 50 in the annual U.S. News
& World Report ranking of national liberal arts colleges released Tuesday.

Among the top national liberal arts colleges, only Wesleyan University at No. 21
and Trinity College at No. 38 ranked higher than Connecticut College in the
state. Massachusetts-based Williams College for the 14th straight year was tops
in the liberal arts category.

Ten years ago, Connecticut College announced it would no longer publicize its
U.S. News ranking, saying the process was flawed. At the time, Conn was ranked
No. 39 in its category, and a decade before it was at No. 26.

"It suggests a degree of precision that does not exist," said then college
president Lee Higdon in a statement. "The overall process reduces a complex set
of data into a simple ranking that says nothing about which school is better
suited to fit the needs of any given student."

The U.S. Coast Guard Academy, in the latest report, was ranked the second best
of 33 northern regional colleges.

Other Connecticut colleges did well in the rankings, with Yale University
winding up No. 3 among national universities, behind only No. 1 Princeton and
No. 2 Harvard. Yale was rated third best in value as well, with an average
tuition of $18,485.

The University of Connecticut at Storrs had a Top 20 showing among national
public universities, but slipped a notch from its No. 19 ranking last year.

The top national university was the University of California at Berkeley, while
the U.S. Naval Academy was ranked tops among national liberal arts colleges.

A ranking of regional universities found Fairfield University No. 2 among 137
northern schools. Others in this category that list Connecticut as home included
Quinnipiac University, No. 11; Sacred Heart University, No. 44, and Eastern
Connecticut State University, No. 85.

___ (c)2016 The Day (New London, Conn.) Visit The Day (New London, Conn.) at
www.theday.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160913-NL-Conn-College-No-50-in-college-rankings-0913-20160913

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NL


                             Copyright 2016 The Day


                              34 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                October 5, 2016

Grade A colleges under DAVV should apply for national rankings: VC

BYLINE: Our Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 301  words


INDORE: Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya (DAVV) vice-chancellor Dr Narendra Dhakad
has said that the university would ask leading colleges under its jurisdiction
to apply for national rankings awarded by National Institutional Ranking
Framework (NIRF).



"No college offering courses affiliated by the DAVV had participated in the
first rankings released last year. We want leading colleges under the DAVV to
participate in national rankings this year," said Dhakad adding that the varsity
would issue letter to Grade A accredited colleges to apply for rankings.

Nearly 10 colleges under it are Grade A accredited colleges by the National
Assessment and Accrediting Agency. They include Government Holkar Science
College, Atal Behari Vijaypayee Government Arts and Commerce College, Prestige
Institute of Management and Research, Pioneer College and Christian Eminent.

The VC states that the ranking is a testimony to quality of research and
teaching offered by an institution so colleges should apply for it.

"The rankings also show an institution's position in the country," he said
adding that the DAVV is also going to apply for national ranking this year.

The NIRF was launched by the MHRD in 2015. The main objective of launching the
NIRF is to have indigenous ranking for the institutions across the country.

The institution is assessed on five broad parameters like teaching and learning
resources, research and professional practices, graduation outcome, outreach and
inclusivity and perception.

Under these five broad parameters, sub-heads are given which are given due
weightage to make it a very objective scale of ranking of the institutions.

The last date for submission of data on the portal of NIRF was October 10. The
UGC on Tuesday issued a letter stating that the date has been extended till
November 15.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2016 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                             May 9, 2007, Wednesday

Bethany president denounces rankings;
Magazine's college ratings unfair, says letter encouraging boycott

BYLINE: Davin White

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P6A

LENGTH: 649 words


davinwhite@wvgazette.com

Bethany College President G.T. "Buck" Smith joined 11 other small-college
leaders in criticizing the validity of a magazine's annual college-ranking
edition.

These members of the Council of Independent Colleges say U.S. News and World
Report's annual college rankings incorrectly assert authority and offer a
disservice to students, parents and the schools they analyze.

Now, they're looking for more support.

With the backing of the Education Conservancy, a Portland, Ore.-based
organization whose focus includes raising awareness about commercial influence
in college admissions, Smith and others hope to mail the letter to more than 500
colleges and universities, for starters.

Lloyd Thacker, director of the Education Conservancy, said the rankings have
"seriously distorted the way education is pursued and perceived."

"They imply a false sense of precision and authority that is not supported by
data," Thacker said, while adding, "U.S. News is laughing all the way to the
bank."

Smith and Thacker say the annual edition [the most recent was released in August
2006] is merely a financial boon for U.S. News. Magazine spokeswoman Cynthia
Powell said it's usually in the top 10 of about 48 annual editions, but defended
it as smart reporting.

"The reason that we do the ranking is that it's consumer journalism at its
best," she said.

She argues that the "50,000 pages" of tables and other research information
found on the magazine's Web site are proof enough that the rankings are grounded
in solid data.

Smith's chief concern is the "reputation" portion of U.S. News' survey. It
questions college presidents, provosts, deans of admission and other college
leaders to account for intangibles such as faculty dedication to teaching,
according to a U.S. News article explaining the methodology.

This "peer assessment" is the rankings' most heavily weighted factor, accounting
for 25 percent of a school's rating. Other top factors are student retention
after the freshmen year, classroom size, the accessibility of faculty and
quality of student body (via test scores, grades).

The rankings also consider - but don't weigh as highly - a school's per-student
spending, graduation rate and the amount of money donated by alumni.

"I can't do more than the one I'm most familiar with, let alone two or three" or
more than 200, Smith said of completing a peer assessment survey. Bethany is a
private liberal arts college in the Northern Panhandle.

There are about 215 small liberal arts colleges like Bethany considered in the
survey, Powell said.

"In many industries, it's an acceptable practice to ask peers about those in the
industry," Powell said.

Bethany does not have a definitive ranking, but ranks as a "tier four" liberal
arts college - and somewhere between 163 and the bottom.

"I wouldn't say it's a negative ranking," Smith said. "It is what it is ... It
isn't a sour grapes sort of thing."

As editor of the book "College Unranked," Thacker said the rankings' influence
has "grown beyond their value or jurisdiction."

Presidents from Dickinson, Marlboro and Wheelock colleges and four
small-university presidents also back the letter. They lament the rankings for:

-Obscuring important differences in universities' educational goals by aligning
them too rigidly.

-Saying little about whether students learn at particular schools.

-Encouraging wasteful spending and gamesmanship in institutions' pursuit of
improved rankings.

-Overweighting the importance of a university's prestige.

Thacker plans to mail the letters soon. In bold print, it asks that college
presidents refuse to fill out the magazine's reputation survey and not use the
rankings in promotional efforts for their school.

Thacker, who says he acts only as a guide, believes college presidents need to
denounce the rankings and act as "education trustees."

To contact staff writer Davin White, use e-mail or call 348-1254.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Charleston Newspapers


                              36 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                             July 31, 2007 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

Disputed survey ranks UGA among best in U.S.

BYLINE: By Rebecca Quigley Morris News Service

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 522 words


ATHENS, Ga. - The University of Georgia touts its U.S. News & World Report best
colleges ranking - tied with three other schools for 60th among all schools in
the country and 21st among public schools - but some students and college
leaders say the numbers shouldn't be taken seriously.

Administrators from some of the nation's liberal arts colleges have started
raising their voices against the way U.S. News judges schools' academic programs
and, until the publisher makes a change, are boycotting part of the ranking
system.

But U.S. News is the most consistent and long-running college rating system, so
UGA officials continue to cite the university's ranking, said Nancy McDuff, the
associate vice president for admissions and enrollment management. "It's part of
what we use to get our name out there," she said.

U.S. News is expected to release its 2008 college rankings in a couple of weeks.

But dozens of private liberal arts colleges, including Wesleyan College in Macon
and Eckerd College in St. Petersburg, Fla. - whose president, Donald Eastman, is
a former top administrator at UGA - have joined an organized boycott of a large
section of the magazine's rankings.

Wesleyan's president, Ruth Knox, a graduate of UGA's School of Law, recently
announced that she supports the boycott along with other college administrators
who oppose the magazine's peer assessment section.

The section, based on college and university officials' judgments of the other
universities on the list, inaccurately represents the quality of a school's
programs, faculty and students, Ms. Knox and other liberal arts college
presidents have said.

Ms. Knox wants the rating system to consider factors, including small class
size, student engagement and graduates' career successes, said college
spokeswoman Susan Welsh.

"U.S. News is not reflective of those types of (factors)," Ms. Welsh said.

U.S. News ranked Wesleyan in the third tier of liberal arts colleges, but the
college has received high scores in some categories, such as racial diversity
and small class size.

Schools that receive a higher ranking, based only on other college leaders'
opinions, also often have more name recognition because their marketing budgets
are larger, Ms. Welsh said.

Wesleyan, along with other colleges, will stop printing its rankings in new
publications and downplay the rankings in other materials it provides to
prospective students, she said.

Despite increasing protests and boycotts from some college presidents, U.S. News
plans to continue publishing the rankings in the same way, said magazine
spokeswoman Cynthia Powell.

UGA's rank in U.S. News & World Report's top 100 colleges made no difference to
Brian Levy, who, like many college-bound Georgians, knew he wanted an education
at Georgia.

"No student would make a choice based on what the ranking is," said Mr. Levy,
who graduated from UGA in May with a bachelor's degree in sociology and
religion.

"The rankings were important to me at the beginning ... but as I got into the
process, the school itself was more important," he said. "I don't think U.S.
News was a litmus test for where I was going to apply."

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                 The Times Leader (Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             October 3, 2016 Monday

EDITORIAL: Colleges in NEPA could devise their own ranking system

BYLINE: The Times Leader, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 517 words


Oct. 03--Would it be a good idea to ...

... have colleges and universities devise their own rating system?

It is surely an odd notion, one that would have been moot a decade or two ago.
Why should anyone trust institutions routinely competing with each other to come
up with a system to help prospective students decide which is best?

But if you haven't noticed, we have a plethora of college rankings. While the
U.S. News and World Report "best" list might be the most famous, there is glut
of rankings and ratings.

Most recently, the Wall Street Journal joined the rankings game, basing judgment
on things like student outcomes, how well students are engaged, and learning
environment. King's College in Wilkes-Barre, incidentally, ranked 423rd
nationwide, a fact it gladly touted in a media release.

Last year, The Economist launched a new ranking system, the venerable magazine's
first since it was founded in 1843.

But there's an endless parade of rankings by many organization, big and small --
including Best Party College, Best Green College, Best College Dorms, Best
College Radio Stations, Best College Food, Best College Libraries, and Best
College Traditions.

And it is inevitable, as these rankings roll out, that someone in local
institutions voices concern regarding the methodology.

So while colleges ranking themselves seems at first counterintuitive, there is
an argument to be made that if they collaborated in devising a system they felt
most useful to all students and fairest to all institutions, it would be just
that.

After all, they are homes to many of the best and brightest in our region and
our country. They are staffed with people who make careers out of crunching
numbers and analyzing results, figuring out the most useful way to use data.

Certainly it is the colleges and universities that should be most familiar with
what students want, and what they need, to enjoy the college experience and
benefit from it.

Maybe area colleges could launch a pilot program. Survey and consult current and
prospective students as well as alumni. Sift through publicly available data, as
most institutions probably already do in gauging the higher ed landscape. Share
proprietary data individual schools have been collecting that they found useful.

And ask their brain trusts what sort of ratings system would be most accurate
and most useful to prospective students scrutinizing the local institutions.
Then make it.

Who knows? A top-shelf, effective rating system of area colleges by area
colleges could lure more students to the region, as they discover how well the
institutions worked together to help students make the best selection for their
future.

Give us your feedback by sending a letter to the editor or posting comments to
this editorial at timesleader.com.

Likewise, tell us your ideas for improving the community. Maybe we'll spotlight
your suggestion in a future editorial and ask readers, "Would it be a good idea
to ..."

___ (c)2016 The Times Leader (Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) Visit The Times Leader
(Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) at www.timesleader.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20161003-WB-EDITORIAL-Colleges-in-NEPA-could-devise-their-own-ranking
-system-1003-20161003

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WB


                        Copyright 2016 The Times Leader


                              38 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      The Free Press (Mankato, Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            September 7, 2009 Monday

GAC is high in latest ranking: Good food, too

BYLINE: Robb Murray, The Free Press, Mankato, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 375 words


Sep. 7--ST. PETER -- Gustavus Adolphus College has netted another solid college
ranking.

The college is listed 33rd among the nation's best liberal arts colleges
according to a new set of rankings released Thursday by Washington Monthly
magazine.

The schools were ranked, Washington Monthly says, based on their contribution to
the public good in three categories: social mobility (recruiting and graduating
low-income students), research (producing cuttingedge scholarship and Ph.D.s),
and service (encouraging students to give something back to their country).

Several other factors contributed to Gustavus' high ranking including its
outstanding graduation rate, its tradition of sending a high number of graduates
to the Peace Corps, and the number of graduates who go on to earn a PhD.

"This particular set of rankings goes to the heart of the mission and core
values of our great institution," GAC President Jack R. Ohle said in a college
-issued statement. "This ranking

reaffirms the fact that Gustavus is committed to academic excellence and
determined to ensure justice and fairness through lives of leadership and
service."

Seven Minnesota colleges were listed the top 100 including Carleton (9th), St.
John's University (18th), Macalester College (19th), St. Olaf College (55th),
the College of St.

Benedict (80th), and Concordia College, Moorhead (83rd).

Washington Monthly is a monthly magazine based in Washington, D.C., that focuses
on United States politics and government. Founded in 1969, the magazine started
releasing college rankings in 2006 as an alternative college guide to the one
published by U.S.

News and World Report.

In that report, Gustavus jumped up eight spots from the year before to No. 80.
And in the annual Princeton Review rankings, Gustavus was ranked among the
nation's colleges with the best food.

To see more of The Free Press or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.mankato-freepress.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, The Free Press, Mankato,
Minn. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090907-FP-GAC-is-high-in-latest-ranking-0907

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FP


                                 Copyright 2009


                              39 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           February 16, 2012 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

JUDGING THE RANKINGS;
RESULTS GIVE JUST PART OF THE COLLEGE PICTURE

BYLINE: Taryn Luna, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. ED-2

LENGTH: 1536 words


Nearly every college is ranked in something.

Carnegie Mellon University ties for No. 23 in the national university rankings
of U.S. News & World Report.

Penn State University's main campus lands in a five-way tie for No. 45 in the
same ranking, but it usually fares better in the Princeton Review's list of top
party schools, where it currently resides in seventh place.

And University of Pittsburgh students are apparently the 20th-happiest student
body in America, also according to Princeton Review.

But does rank matter?

The answer varies widely depending on whom you ask.

Sophia Rosenfeld, a senior at The Ellis School in Shadyside, said rankings
didn't factor into her decision to attend the University of Chicago next fall.

"I didn't think a ranking would show me what the best fit for me was," explained
the native Pittsburgher.

When asked if she knew the university's position in the U.S. News & World Report
rankings, the most commonly referenced and promoted assessments of their kind on
the market, she was quick to respond with "No. 5" -- and she was right.

"Rankings, whether people like them or not, are part of the college selection
culture," said Paul-James Cukanna, associate provost for enrollment management
at Duquesne University.

Students like Ms. Rosenfeld may not rely on rankings to determine what school is
best for them, but they do use them for reassurance, or to determine a pool of
schools to apply to, he said.

"Most consumers, in any industry -- we're looking for validation that our choice
is accurate," he said. "Students and parents are no different when it comes to
the higher education market."

He describes rankings as one "part of a toolkit to gather information to make a
decision" about which college to attend.

Universities pay attention to rankings for a different reason.

Mr. Cukanna said his college uses rankings as "a way to get more students
interested in your university" and gauge their own competition in the higher
education marketplace.

The Dukes don't hesitate to promote their standing.

The school's website has a page dedicated to tout its rankings from the U.S.
News & World Report, Princeton Review and other publications.

Likewise, the public relations team routinely distributes press releases to plug
the latest favorable nod.

Mr. Cukanna thinks it's important that the school remains cognizant of where it
falls. "We always try to understand why we've increased and why we haven't," he
said.

But not everyone in education places as much stock in rankings.

Joanna Schultz, director of college counseling at The Ellis School, an
independent girls' school that boasts a 100 percent college attendance rate
among its graduates, advises students to ignore rankings.

"We don't want students to have a ranked list of colleges that are good and some
better than others," she said. "We want them to have a list of colleges that are
really good for them, OK for them or not good for them."

Ms. Schultz is among many education professionals to question the credibility of
the U.S. News & World Report ranking methodology, which dedicates 22.5 percent
of a school's score to reputation.

Reputation is heavily weighted on how provosts, presidents and upper
administration at universities rate each other's institutions.

Howard Ishiyama, vice president for academic affairs and academic dean at La
Roche College, said he's proof that the U.S. News approach has its flaws.

In the 10 years he's been in higher education, he's become familiar with about 5
to 10 percent of the schools he's asked to rate.

Some he's heard of but knows very little about their quality.

Mr. Ishiyama either chooses not to rank these schools or he scores them
somewhere in the middle of the road: not too high, but not too low.

"It brings in a lot of guesswork, and it kind of codifies it as if it were more
than that," he said. "It accumulates guesswork."

When he rates the schools of colleagues that he knows well, a natural bias comes
into play.

"The other circles that I'm part of are personal relationships with chief
academic officers, and some of that can -- to the extent to which I'm friendly,
or like or respect those people -- tend to have a side effect on how I rate
them," he said.

"I am exactly the kind of person who has been rating La Roche and every other
school on that list," he said.

Robert Morse, director of data research for U.S. News & World Report, stands
behind the credibility of the methodology he created as "one way to evaluate
schools."

The academic reputation portion, he said, asks experts in the field for their
assessments on anywhere from 100 to 120 other schools, not the full list of 250.

He said he doesn't expect university presidents to have a superb detailed
knowledge of all of the schools they rate.

The methodology assumes that "you've had experience in higher education and
you've risen through the ranks and you have some knowledge of other schools" to
provide a credible perspective, he said.

There's no doubt that reputation plays a vital role in how students select a
college.

Mr. Morse cited a recent UCLA study that asked 203,967 first-year students at
270 four-year colleges and universities in the nation to list important
influential factors in their college search.

Rankings came in as the 11th most-influential factor, but a school's academic
reputation topped the list, which he suggests supports his methodology's weight
on reputation.

"Research shows that the perspective students in the freshman survey think that
the reputation of a school is very important," he said.

David Hawkins, director of public policy and research at the National
Association for College Admission Counseling in Arlington, Va., said he doubts
the impressions of university executives best suit the students who use the
surveys.

That's true at least in the case of Priyanka Amirneni, of Marshall. Priyanka, a
senior at The Ellis School, said she values what she hears about colleges
through her academic and social networks.

She said rankings weren't a factor in the schools she applied to, particularly
because she feels they are too fluid. She placed a greater emphasis on college
visits.

"I know that rankings go up and down," she said. "If a college is a reputable
college, I guess you hear about them. That's good enough for me."

But even then, a school with a good "reputation" doesn't necessarily make it
good fit for Priyanka, or any other individual.

"At some point, you have to question what does reputation mean?" Mr. Hawkins
said. "Does it mean the college that does the best at what you're interested
in?"

NACAC members generally agree that more emphasis should be placed on what
students get out of their education -- such as graduation and retention rates,
faculty resources and financial resources-- than the skills they bring to the
school as evident in average scores on SAT and ACT college entrance exams,
incoming freshman grade point averages, acceptance rates and so on.

Mr. Hawkins suggests pushing away from a system that creates a sense of order
and rank with one college above another, which might not be supported by the
reality of the best school for the individual, to a more expansive view of how
to judge the quality of a college.

To do this, he explains, would require U.S. News and other ranking organizations
to de-emphasize their editorial take on the methodology and allow individuals to
determine the information about a school that matters most to them.

"What they are doing now is much too subjective," he said. "If they were able to
tap into the vast public interest, they could almost turn it around."

He said students could become involved via an interactive Web tool that allows
them to determine the percentage of a score devoted to reputation, graduation
rates or other factors that matter to them in a college search.

"In some ways we're asking them to relinquish their grip on the Best Colleges
mantra," he said. "You still get U.S. News data driving the process, but you get
an endless array of individualized methodologies that allows you to see what
people really want."

The verdict is out on whether this is the type of ranking approach for the
future, but Mr. Morse said U.S. News is studying the possibility of providing a
personalized rankings tool on usnews.com.

"It is appealing because it would give students and parents [the] ability to set
priorities with the data," he said.

The challenge is creating a user-friendly interface.

Mr. Morse, whose ranking system is described by Mr. Hawkins as one his "members
love to hate and hate to love," said that despite the fact that many colleges
speak with "a forked tongue" about his rankings, they continue to use them.

"They are using our rankings as a validation or an indicator to the public as
their standing against their peers," he said. "The institutions that we're
ranking think [the rankings] are credible."

TOP 5 RANKINGS

NATIONAL UNIVERSITIES

1. Harvard University

Princeton Uiversity

2. Yale University

4. Columbia University

5. California Institute of Technology (Cal Tech)

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)

Stanford University

University of Chicago

University of Pennyslvania

NATIONAL LIBERAL ARTS COLLEGES

1. Williams College

2. Amherst College

3. Swarthmore College

4. Pomona College

5. Middlebury College

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDUCATION PLANNING GUIDE / Taryn Luna: 412-263-1985 or
tluna@post-gazette.com /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lake Fong/Post-Gazette: The Ellis School senior Priyanka
Amirneni values campus visits more than rankings.\
CHART: U.S. News & World Report; Post-Gazette: Top 5 rankings

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              40 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                             June 3, 2010 Thursday

OPECA: BPUT students' college ranking illegal

LENGTH: 386  words

DATELINE: Bhubaneswar


Bhubaneswar, June 3 -- The Odisha Private Engineering College in a letter to the
vice chancellor of Biju Patnaik University of Technology has termed the ranking
of colleges by the BPUT students association as illegal and done with mala fide
intentions.

OPECA in the letter stated "the so called BPUT Students Association like last
year has assigned ranks to different technical colleges as per their whims and
fancies. We are aware that neither the BPUT nor the Government has ever
recognised such associations or such acts. Similarly OPECA also has never
authorised any such students' association nor encouraged such an arbitrary
ranking system. We know that such arbitrary rankings have been done without the
knowledge of BPUT or Government and most certainly without the consent of any
colleges by the students association."

BPUT is yet to develop parameters as such for ranking technical, professional
colleges. There is only NBA Accreditation, through which colleges get
accreditation as per their set parameters. As such there are accredited colleges
and non- accredited colleges.

We as a registered association of all private engineering and MCA colleges in
Odisha strongly oppose to such ranking procedures as this has been simply done
by the students with certain malafide intention for blackmailing and holding
colleges hostage for ransom. This ranking activity has been undertaken only to
create utter confusion and spread misleading information among aspiring
students, their parents and genera! public at large, alleged OPECA.

"So we request BPUT to immediately issue a release in this context that the
ranking procedure by the students is illegal, malafide, unauthorised and out of
context, i.e. BPUT nor Government neither any technical colleges have authorized
any such ranking system processes. So no aspiring students and their parents
should be misguided by such a "sham" ranking system, said OPECA.

"Further we propose that if any ranking system is to be adopted then the same be
adopted by BPUT by setting certain parameters and on the basis of such
parameters BPUT may rank the colleges for which we have no objections," said the
organisation. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For more
information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                Intelligencer Journal (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

                            August 18, 2007 Saturday

Local colleges fare well in annual magazine report;
Millersville, F&M and E-town rank high

BYLINE: Madelyn Pennino

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 705  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


MADELYN PENNINO

Though local colleges once again fared well in U.S. News & World Report's annual
ranking, school officials are warning students not to put too much stock in the
list.

In the report, which was released online Friday, Millersville University ranks
45th among colleges in the north that offer a broad range of undergraduate and
master's degree programs.

Franklin & Marshall College is 40th among national liberal-arts schools and
Elizabethtown College ranks fifth among the northern region's best baccalaureate
schools.

The data is based on criteria such as enrollment, program completion, faculty,
staff, graduation rates, institutional prices, financial aid and reputation.

Princeton holds the top spot in the latest rankings, the eighth straight year
the private New Jersey school has either tied or held the top slot outright.

Just like last year, Princeton was followed by Harvard at No. 2 and Yale at No.
3..

Paul Cramer, Elizabethtown College's vice president of enrollment, said the
college slipped a few spots from last year.

Cramer said Elizabethtown's ranking dropped because it was grouped with a new
set of schools.

"There was a shift in the different categories and various schools were
realigned," Cramer said. "The schools Elizabethtown were grouped with are
specialty schools that are not like Elizabethtown."

Cramer said he believes the magazine's ranking has some merit, but he said
prospective students should not rely on the rankings when choosing a college.

"It (the list) is one means of assessing a college," Cramer said. "But the
rankings don't show all the good things we are doing. We are a lot more than
just No. 5 for a specific publication."

Before committing to a school, Cramer said, students should visit the campus.

"Students and families must investigate schools and visit the campus first-hand
and talk to students and professors," Cramer said.

Many educators agree with Cramer's view of the rankings. Jim McCollum, assistant
director to the president of Millersville University, Francine McNairy, agreed
with Cramer.

"The rankings are simply a tool," McCollum said. "Students must make a campus
visit to a school they are interested in attending. That's more important than a
ranking."

The list has been widely criticized for years because peer review accounts for a
substantial part of the ratings.

Alan Caniglia, F&M's vice provost for planning and institutional research, said
25 percent of a college's rank is based on reputation.

"It's totally subjective. Some of the ranking is based on indirect information
about the college," Caniglia said. "It you change the formula, you come up with
a different set of rankings. It's arbitrary."

Mel Schiavelli, president of Harrisburg University of Science and Technology,
said the rankings are compiled from accurate data. Still, the strength of a
school can't be measured statistically, Schiavelli said.

Schiavelli, a former professor of chemistry, was previously the provost and
interim president at the College of William and Mary and provost at the
University of Delaware.

"It's the quality of faculty that counts," Schiavelli said. "Not because of
research or grants professors write, but because they have the ability to mentor
students."

Schiavelli said he doesn't believe there is a significant difference between
those colleges that rank high and colleges that rank lower on the list.

"I don't believe statistically you can tell the difference between No. 1 and No.
20 or No. 1 from No. 2," Schiavelli said.

Still, a a college's reputation will always play a major role in the rankings,
Schiavelli said.

"There is no question that the ones people say are good," Schiavelli said. "The
Ivy Leaguers always percolate to the top."

What the report does, Schiavelli said, is encourage students to shop around.

"I think it helps people be better consumers of education," Schiavelli said.
"Going to college is expensive. It's like buying a new Acura every year."

Lebanon Valley College was also ranked eighth as one of the top baccalaureate
colleges in the north.

The college rankings are published in the Aug. 27 issue U.S. News & World
Report. "If you change the formula, you come up with a different set of rankings
. It's arbitrary." Alan Caniglia F&M provost

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.


                              42 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Financial Express

                          September 14, 2017 Thursday

Swachhta Ranking 2017: OP Jindal Global University, Kongu Arts and Science
College emerge in top list;
Union Human Resource Development (HRD) Minister Prakash Javadekar today
announced the 'Swachhta' Ranking 2017 for Higher Education Institutes at an
event held at the Banquet hall in Hotel Ashok.-- Delivered by Feed43 service

BYLINE: FE Online

LENGTH: 448  words


Union Human Resource Development (HRD) Minister Prakash Javadekar today
announced the 'Swachhta' Ranking 2017 for Higher Education Institutes at an
event held at the Banquet hall in Hotel Ashok. The programme was also attended
by the Minister of State for Human Resource Development, Higher Education,
Satyapal Singh. A total of 3500 institutions took part in the Swachhta Ranking
2017 scheme out of which 25 best institutions were selected under 4 categories
for Award, according to a tweet by the Ministry of HRD. Firstly 174 institutions
were shortlisted out of 3500, and finally 25 best institution were selected out
of the 174 institutions. According to NDTV, the ranking has been done on the
basis of multiple segments including - cleanliness standards, cleaning systems,
waste disposal methods, greenery in the institute campus, and campus
accessibility.

The ranking have been done largely under 4 categories that include- Swachhta
Ranking 2017 for University, Swachhta Ranking 2017 for Colleges, Swachhta
Ranking 2017 for Technical Institutions and Swachhta Ranking 2017 Government
Institutions.

Swachhta Ranking 2017 for University: Varsities includes under this category
are-

1. OP Jindal Global University, Sonipat, Haryana

2. Manipal University Jaipur, Rajastham

3. Chitkara University Kalu Jhanda (Barotiwala), Solan, HP

4. KLE Academy of Higher Education and Research, Belgaun, Karnataka

5. Datalbagh education Institute, Agra, UP

Swachhta Ranking 2017 for Colleges: Varsities includes under this category are-

1. Kongu Arts and Science College Erode, TN

2. Vidya Pratishthans Arts, Commerce & Science College, MIDC Baramati, Pune,
Maharashtra

3. Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda College, Chennai, TN

4. Vivekanandha College of Arts & Science (W), Tiruchengode, TN

5. SNR Sons College, Coimbatore, TN

6. KG College of Arts and Science, Coimbatore, TN

Swachhta Ranking 2017 for Technical Institutions: Varsities includes under this
category are-

1. Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, coimbatore, TN

2. Koneru Lakshmaiah Education foundation, Guntur, AP

3. Sri Ramachandra Medical college and Reearch Institute, Chennai, TN

4. Vivekanandha College of Arts & Science (W), Tiruchengode, TN

5. RMD Engineering College, Chennai

6. RMK Engineering College, Chennai

7. ABES Institute of Technology, Ghaziabad

Swachhta Ranking 2017 Government Institutions: Varsities includes under this
category are-

1. GB pat University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar, UK

2. Madurai Kamraj University, Madurai, YN

3. Alagappa University, TN

4. National Institute of Technology, Hamirpur, HP

5. Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati, Assam

6. Govt Post-graduate College for Girls, Chandigarh, UT

7. Punjab University, Punjab

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2017 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                               November 23, 2015

UGC makes mandatory for institutions to participate in national rankings

BYLINE: Our Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 494  words


Indore: Selecting a university or a college for pursing a higher education
programme has always been a tough task for students in absence of authentic and
valid ranking of institutions of higher learning.



Come academic session and this scenario will change as the Ministry of Human
Resource Development (MHRD) has launched a ranking framework to assess standards
of higher educational institutions in the country and accordingly rank them.

The University Grants Commission (UGC) has made it mandatory for all the
universities and colleges in the country to participate in the national ranking
exercise.

In a letter issued to the vice-chancellors of universities in the country, UGC
Chairman Ved Prakash said: "The MHRD has come up with the National Institution
Ranking Framework (NIRF) for universities and colleges, which will evaluate the
universities and colleges on quantifiable parameters leading to ranking of the
institutions."

With accessing the website of the NIRF, the students will be able to know
rankings of the colleges or university across the university and accordingly
decide in which institution they want to take admission.

"The NIRF document, which is self-explanatory, can be accessed from the NIRF
website.

All the universities and colleges are required to participate in the ranking
exercise by registering themselves on the NIRF web portal of the MHRD.

The NIRF document for universities and college is already available on the
portal. The data submission utility and registration facility would be
operational from next week.

The UGC has asked the universities to register themselves and provide the data
as per the instructions given on the NIRF portal and get institution ranked.

Similarly, the universities have been asked to instruct the colleges that come
under their jurisdiction to register themselves so that the national ranking is
made available to the students from the next academic session.

"I crave for your personal indulgence with the request to accord top most
priority to it," the UGC chairman told vice chancellors.

Maiden ranking list in April

The first ranking list which will cover government as well as private institutes
is likely to be completed by early April 2016. That means that the students will
know before-hand the rankings of the colleges and university when they go for
admissions.

Ranking of colleges and universities is currently being done by nearly 15 pvt
agencies in the country and several other international agencies. The focus of
these agencies is varied and some are unable to reflect the clear picture
considering the regulation for the higher educational institutions in India.

To standardize this process, the MHRD decided to come up with a model ranking
based on the methodology prepared by a core committee set up by it.

The parameters broadly cover teaching, learning and resources, research,
professional practices and collaborative performance, graduation outcomes,
outreach and inclusivity, and perception.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Carlsbad Current-Argus (New Mexico)

                          September 17, 2011 Saturday

University of the Southwest listed at 13 in 2012 edition of Best Regional
Colleges

BYLINE: From the Current-Argus Submitted to the Current-Argus

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 346 words


HOBBS -- University of the Southwest earned the number 13 spot among Regional
Colleges in the West in the 2012 edition of Best Colleges by U.S. News Media
Group.

The exclusive rankings, which include rankings of more than 1,400 schools
nationwide, are available today at www.usnews.com/colleges, and will also be
published in the September issue of U.S.News & World Report, on newsstands
starting September 20.

Over the past two decades, the U.S. News college rankings, which group schools
based on categories created by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of
Teaching, has grown to be perhaps the most commonly utilized reference resource
for students and parents considering higher education opportunities.

The college ranking categories used in the 2012 rankings have been updated to
reflect the 2010 edition of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of
Teaching's Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education's basic
classification. As a result, some colleges have changed categories in the 2012
edition rankings. Consequently, while USW was ranked 84th in 2011 it is now
ranked 13th in its current category.

Also included in the rankings for the first time are all for-profit institutions
that meet the other U.S. News criteria to become eligible for the rankings. For
more information about the 2012 Best Colleges ranking methodology, go to
www.usnews.com/collegemeth.

"University of the Southwest has worked hard to establish a tradition of quality
in the education we provide to students in our region and elsewhere," noted
Jordan Bodine, dean of enrollment services. "This designation serves as public
confirmation of our continued efforts."

The 2012 Best Colleges feature the established rankings of the Best National
Universities and Best National Liberal Arts Colleges, while also including
rankings of A+ Schools for B Students, Great Schools at Great Prices, and
Up-and-Coming Schools, among others.

For more information about Best Colleges, visit www.usnews.com/colleges. To
access the Premium Online Edition, go to www.usnews.com/collegestore.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2011 Carlsbad Current-Argus, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                              May 8, 2007 Tuesday

St. John's seeks boycott of college ranking system

BYLINE: EARL KELLY; Staff Writer

SECTION: ARUNDEL; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 672  words


St. John's College has joined a group of schools asking universities across the
nation to boycott U.S. News & World Report's system of ranking colleges.

A letter signed on Saturday by 12 college presidents - including St. John's
President Christopher Nelson of Annapolis and Michael Peters, president of St.
John's Santa Fe campus - will go out this week to the presidents of up to 1,500
institutions, according to Lloyd Thacker, head of the Education Conservancy, the
New York-based group that orchestrated the petition.

The letter asks college presidents to refuse to participate in the magazine's
annual survey "America's Best Colleges" and to refrain from using its rankings
in college promotional materials.

"Colleges should refuse to participate in any of these rankings because they do
a disservice to students and families," Mr. Nelson said yesterday. "A student
experience can't be represented by a number on a scale."

Mr. Nelson said assigning scores to schools "has the effect of reducing choice."

"Rankings really cause students (and parents, sometimes), to focus on the wrong
things," he said.

Mr. Peters said rankings "encourage wasteful gamesmanship" between colleges.

To show the rankings' irrelevance, Mr. Nelson said that when U.S. News & World
Report started ranking colleges in the 1980s, St. John's ranked among the top 10
in the country. The college immediately saw the number of applications
skyrocket, followed by the largest number ever of students dropping out after
experiencing the school's demanding curriculum.

In subsequent years, St. John's has been ranked as a first-, second- and
third-tier college, even though the school hasn't changed, Mr. Nelson said.

In its most recent rankings in August, the magazine classified St. John's (both
the Annapolis and Santa Fe campuses) among "third-tier" colleges.

The letter signed by the 12 college presidents says, "We believe these rankings
are misleading and do not serve well the interests of prospective students in
finding a college or university that is suited to their education beyond high
school."

The rankings "imply a false precision and authority that is not warranted by the
data they use," and "say nothing or very little about whether students are
actually learning at particular colleges or universities." U.S. News & World
Report officials couldn't be reached for comment.

The 12 presidents who signed the pact are heads of small liberal arts schools,
including Earlham, Dickinson and Bethany colleges, and Drew and Lafayette
universities.

Mr. Nelson has long fought to preserve liberal arts education as more than a
credential for getting a job.

"A liberal education is about helping our students come to know themselves, to
examine their place in the world, and to prepare them to make a life worth
living - one they call their own because they have examined it carefully and
chosen it for themselves," he told an audience at Dickinson College in March.
"It is therefore about more than good jobs, substantial salaries and
contributions to the global marketplace, however good those things are."

With a unique curriculum, St. John's teaches the "great books" of western
civilization. All students take the same courses and all materials must be
studied in chronological order. The college doesn't honor "transfer credits"
from other colleges.

The August rankings put Princeton University first, with Harvard second and Yale
third.

The Naval Academy tied for third place nationally among undergraduate-only
engineering programs.

Mr. Thacker, of the Education Conservancy, said the ranking of colleges attempts
to quantify factors that can't be measured, and tells nothing about the
education a specific student can acquire at a particular school.

"It treats education as a product and kids as consumers, and therefore devalues
the role kids play in making an education happen," said Mr. Thacker, a retired
high school counselor.

"The rankings have diluted our sense of what makes education important" and have
led to the "commercialization" of education, he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2007 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                             August 18, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Maine colleges named `best' by magazine;
U.S. News & World Report puts Bowdoin, Colby and Bates in the top 25, and UNE
moves up in its class.

BYLINE: BETH QUIMBY Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & STATE; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 299 words


August is when colleges and universities learn what it's like to get letters
telling them whether they measure up.

It's the month when most of the national college ranking lists are published.
The most prestigious of those lists, "America's Best Colleges," was released on
Thursday by U.S. News & World Report with good news and bad for Maine's colleges
and universities.

Among the winners this year is the Biddeford-based University of New England,
which jumped eight places to number 62 in its category: regional universities
with large master's degree programs.

Colby College in Waterville, Bates College in Lewiston and Bowdoin College in
Brunswick all won spots among the best liberal arts colleges.

The U.S. News & World Report rankings are watched closely. The guide is used
widely by students and families to make decisions about where to apply, based on
size, location, graduation rate and other factors.

"People take this very, very seriously," said Steve Price, spokesman for UNE.

UNE immediately sent out a press release touting its jump in the rankings, with
a statement by President Danielle N. Ripich extolling the university's rise in
the ranks. Price said the rankings have a powerful impact on applications and
admissions.

A higher ranking can translate into a larger applicant pool, allowing the school
to be more selective in its admissions.

The fact that Bates, Bowdoin and Colby have consistently placed among the 25
best liberal arts colleges in the past 15 years has doubled their pools of
applicants, said Bill Hiss, Bates' vice president of external affairs, who
chaired the U.S. News & World Report rankings advisory committee for a decade.

Other college officials said they take the rankings a bit less seriously.

"We certainly pay attention to it when it comes out, but we also continue to
conduct ourselves as we would regardless of where we fall in these rankings,"
said Ruth Jacobs, Colby's spokeswoman.

Colby learned this week that it had been named, along with Bowdoin, to the "New
Ivies." That's a list of 25 schools identified for academic excellence in the
"How to Get Into College Guide," published jointly by Kaplan Test Prep and
Admissions and Newsweek magazine.

On the U.S. News & World Report list of best liberal arts colleges, Colby
College stayed put at number 20. It also won the 21st spot on a list of 40
best-priced liberal arts colleges.

Bowdoin College dropped from sixth to seventh on the best liberal arts colleges
list and placed eighth on the best-priced college list.

Bates' ranking slipped from 21 last year, just behind Colby, to 23 among liberal
arts colleges.

Other Maine colleges and universities stayed about the same. The University of
Maine at Orono remains on the list of third-tier universities, which are not
ranked.

Some college officials say they are not convinced that the rankings are
meaningful. Scott Hood, vice president of communications at Bowdoin, said
Bowdoin has fluctuated between fourth and 11th on the U.S. News & World Report
best college list in the last 15 years.

"We are a nation obsessed with top 10 lists," he said.

He said the rankings do help students winnow their initial list of prospective
colleges. But, he said, research shows that the rankings do not rate high among
the many factors students and their families consider in picking a college.

"Much more important are conversations with people who have gone there, visits
to the school, spending time on the Web site," he said.

His office is filled with books and publications that rank schools. There is the
Princeton Review, based on student questionnaires, the Insider's Guide to the
Colleges, published by the Yale Daily News, and Peterson's Four-Year Colleges.

All rank the schools slightly differently. But in the end, Hood said, there are
many colleges and universities that offer students a chance at a top-notch
education.

Staff Writer Beth Quimby can be contacted at 791-6363 or at:

bquimby@pressherald.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Inside Bay Area (California)

                            August 18, 2007 Saturday

College rankings rankle, but influence persists

BYLINE: By Matt Krupnick, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: ARGUS

LENGTH: 1108 words


It's the toughest time of the year for Lloyd Thacker to stand in a supermarket
line.

With U.S. News & World Report's annual college rankings hitting news racks
Monday -- the rankings are available online -- Thacker will be spending a lot of
time looking at the publication he has dedicated himself to resisting.

Thacker, who directs the Oregon-based Education Conservancy, has led the growing
nationwide opposition to the 24-year-old U.S. News rankings, which he sees as
the epitome of commercialized higher education. Colleges should not be ranked
based on a uniform scale, he said.

"It has distorted and skewed how (college) admissions are perceived," said
Thacker, a former college counselor. "Their impact far exceeds their educational
relevance."

As of Thursday, Thacker had gathered signatures from more than 60 college
presidents who have vowed to stop completing a major portion of the magazine's
annual survey, which analyzes 1,400 schools across the United States. The
disputed section, which accounts for a quarter of a school's score, rates a
college's reputation among its peers.

Among the institutions refusing to rate their competitors' reputations are St.
Mary's College in Moraga and San Francisco State University. In their hunger for
higher rankings, some colleges have increased the number of scholarships for
top-performing students, Thacker said. That system skews colleges toward more
affluent students, while hurting low-income students who tend to have lower test
scores.

Although college administrators have long grumbled at the popularity and effects
of the U.S. News rankings, school leaders have organized in opposition more than
in years past. Thacker's group is planning a September meeting at Yale
University to discuss alternative ranking systems.

Nevertheless, U.S. News remains a major player in the world of college choice.
At least 97 percent of the schools that participated in this year's U.S. News
rankings plan to continue to do so, according to a survey of more than 300
admissions officers released this week by Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions.

With thousands of colleges and universities available to students, the magazine
is merely providing people a research tool, said U.S. News Editor Brian Kelly.
Critics say the influential lists lead schools to spend too much money in
specific areas to boost their rankings.

"I think we get blamed for a lot of colleges' behavior that isn't our fault,"
Kelly told reporters Thursday. "The kind of behavior they're talking about here
is often behavior that is good for the schools."

The rankings reward colleges for small class sizes, student-retention and
graduation rates, and financial resources. A quarter of each school's overall
score is based on the opinions of administrators at other colleges.

The rankings continue to hold considerable sway for many graduating high-school
seniors -- especially those at the most competitive high schools.

"I wasn't looking at any particular book, but you always know the rankings
anyway," said 17-year-old Orinda native Hayley Andrews, who is preparing to
attend New York's Barnard College, ranked 30th among liberal-arts schools by
U.S. News. "It would be hard for me or my friends to explain to people why we

turned down a school that was ranked higher than the school we chose."

The magazine this year tweaked its rankings to compensate for the effects of
low-income students, whose graduation rates are lower.

Despite the change, some administrators say the rankings just don't tell
students enough about a college.

"The kind of work that U.S. News & World Report does doesn't really get to the
heart of what we do here at St. Mary's," said Michael Beseda, the Moraga
college's vice provost for enrollment. "They've narrowed the discussion in this
country of what an undergraduate education should be.

"Any informed educator who thoughtfully thinks about the ranking systems
realizes they are inadequate."

St. Mary's ranked 11th in the western United States this year among colleges
that grant no higher than a master's degree. But Beseda said he prefers surveys
that measure student engagement, in which St. Mary's scores well.

But at University of California, Berkeley, the top-ranked public university in
the country this year, administrators say the lists offer valuable information
when taken in the context of other sources. Any rankings systems will have its
flaws and critics, said Christine Maslach, the university's vice provost for
undergraduate education.

"You always have to take these with a grain of salt," she said. "There's
probably a variety of places where a student would do well."

While an increasing number of college leaders believe they can attract students
without participating in rankings, the dilemma causes more consternation among
lawschool deans. U.S. News publishes the only widely read lawschool rankings,
which have led some schools to take drastic actions to improve their scores,
said Christopher Edley, dean of UC Berkeley's Boalt Hall School of Law.

One prominent school is considering admitting students based solely on
entrance-exam scores in order to attain a better rank, Edley said.

"By and large, the rankings are a force of evil," said Edley, who nevertheless
speaks frequently of the importance of Boalt's place on the U.S. News list.
"Many good things flow from high rankings. And that's the problem right there."

A highly ranked school attracts more donations, better students and top
professors, he said. For a publicly funded school, where class sizes are larger
and endowments are smaller, it's tough to ignore the rankings.

"A school like Berkeley definitely suffers with the way the rankings are
constructed," Edley said. "We make choices about how we design education here,
and we can be proud of it, but we can't expect it to be universally respected."

Contact Matt Krupnick (925) 943-8246 or mkrupnick@bayareanewsgroup.com .

HOW THEY RANK

This year's U.S. News & World Report "America's Best Colleges"

rankings:

National universities (bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees):

1. Princeton

2. Harvard

3. Yale

4. Stanford

5. California Institute of Technology

Other Bay Area and regional schools:

-- UC Berkeley (No. 21, national universities; No. 1 public university)

-- UC Davis (No. 42, national)

-- Santa Clara (No. 2, regional master's degree universities)

-- Mills (No. 6, regional master's)

-- St. Mary's (No. 11, regional master's)

-- San Jose State (No. 34, regional master's)

-- San Francisco State (No. 48, regional master's)

-- Cal State East Bay (No. 58, regional master's)

-- Cal Maritime (No. 6, regional baccalaureate colleges)

For the complete lists, visit http://www.usnews.com/colleges

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            November 27, 2006 Monday

Colleges woo peers for high marks in rankings;
School officials question surveys, but few are willing to be left out

BYLINE: PAUL TOSTO, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 867 words


Steve Syverson got a tree in the mail recently, along with a message from one of
his competitors: Vote for me.

It didn't say that exactly, but Syverson, admissions dean at Lawrence University
in Appleton, Wis., understood. He draws lots of attention from other schools
because he holds a vote in the "liberal arts college" category for the U.S. News
& World Report college rankings.

Peer votes account for one-quarter of a school's ranking on the popular U.S.
News list. It's the biggest single factor in gauging where a school lands, and
schools are doing more than ever to woo favorable views from each other.

Syverson said he receives glossy portfolios from colleges on their research,
notes about faculty awards and the occasional oddity -- such as the tree, which
was tied to a message about a college's plans for future growth.

He and other admissions officers wish the rankings mania would stop, but it has
become a kind of beauty contest in which the contestants do a big part of the
judging -- so, few are willing to walk away.

"You're wanting to do right by your college," Syverson said. "I'm sure there's
all kinds of game-playing that people do. So, many of us are morally torn."

"The reality is, if we were all required to give a one- or two-sentence
description of why I'm ranking College X as 'distinguished,' we couldn't," he
added. "We just know that, well, Amherst is really well regarded.

"Most of us probably only know about 10 or 15 colleges. What are we ranking the
other 200 on out there?"

No one knows how much money colleges spend each year trying to win votes from
one another. A 2002 survey of college presidents by the Association of Governing
Boards of Universities and Colleges found more than half of the 241 who
responded said their schools had plans designed specifically to boost their
rankings.

"I get tons of glossy materials from schools all around the country, encouraging
me to think more closely about their academic reputations and their stature,"
said Mark Anderson, admissions dean at Gustavus Adolphus College. He has also
received a tree, along with books, building schematics, "you name it, and I've
received it."

"It's really a tremendous waste of money and natural resources," Anderson said.

Officials sometimes find themselves wondering if they should downgrade
competitors to give themselves a bigger boost -- something a small percentage of
college leaders admitted doing when asked in the 2002 survey.

The U.S. News annual rankings have grown in influence since they were first
published in 1983. It's the magazine's most popular issue.

Ranking formulas have been tweaked over the years in response to criticism,
although peer assessment is still the biggest segment.

The magazine surveys presidents, provosts and admissions deans at schools,
asking them to rate their peers' academic programs on a scale from 1 (marginal)
to 5 (distinguished). Those who don't know enough about a school to evaluate it
fairly are asked to mark "don't know."

Fifty-eight percent of the 4,089 people who received surveys responded.

When it comes to the very specific category of liberal arts colleges, however,
Syverson said ballots go to only 645 officials at the 215 schools in the
category. If 58 percent of that group came back, that means fewer than 400 votes
were responsible for a crucial piece of that ranking.

That's a relatively small group whose sentiments can swing a ranking -- so
marketing to those voters has become common.

"There's a reason there's a trash can right next to my mailbox," said Lorne
Robinson, dean of financial aid and admissions at Macalester College, who said
he threw away four presentations last week.

In most cases, Robinson said, he checks the "I don't know" box.

Students, Robinson said, typically use the rankings as a point to start a
college search or to verify that a school is a "good place. They don't
necessarily think that number 17 is better than number 24."

Of course, for as much as college admissions officials decry the rankings game,
it's hard for any college to turn away a chance at trumpeting a good ranking.

"For the eighth straight year, Lawrence University's academic excellence,
including one of the country's most distinctive first-year programs, placed it
among the top quarter of the nation's best liberal arts colleges," announced a
Lawrence news release Aug. 18, the day the most recent ranking was released.

A Macalester release noted its ascension to 24th in the ranking -- a gain of one
from last year.

A few schools have refused to cooperate with the U.S. News rankings, but given
the lists' popularity, most colleges have too much at stake to stay off.

"Few college officials publicly credit the peer assessment, as currently
constructed, with any legitimacy," Syverson wrote in a recent essay. "Yet, to
consider not submitting the rating sheet is to know that there will be one less
'vote' rating one's own institution as 'distinguished' -- so the ratings
continue to be submitted."

Lawrence, by the way, came in at No. 53 this year.

"If you start paying attention to the rankings," Syverson said, "wherever you
are isn't good enough."

Paul Tosto covers higher education and can be reached at ptosto@pioneerpress.com
or 651-228-2119.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 22, 2013 Thursday

Spring-Summer SMU Rankings

LENGTH: 487  words

DATELINE: Dallas


Southern Methodist University has issued the following news release:

SMU recently has been named in a variety of annual rankings of universities and
graduate schools. Listed below is a sample of these rankings from the last few
months.

National Ranking for Engineering

SMU has ranked No. 19 among the top 50 colleges and universities nationwide
whose engineering graduates earn the highest salaries, as calculated by College
Factual, a new site that uses outcomes-based tools and rankings to guide the
college selection process. Aug. 8, 2013.

http://readme.readmedia.com/Southern-Methodist-University-Ranked-Among-The-Top-5
0-Colleges-with-the-Highest-Paid-Engineering-Grads/7111131 (news release showing
announcement)

http://www.collegefactual.com/majors/engineering/rankings/highest-paid-grads/
(2nd page shows SMU)

High Marks for Undergraduate Education

The Princeton Review ranks SMU as one of the nation's best institutions for
undergraduate education, according to its guide, "The Best 378 Colleges."

Only about 15% of the nation's 2,500 four-year institutions and only four
colleges outside the U.S. are included.  In its specific categories, SMU placed
in the top 20 for College City with High Marks (7); Best Career Services (8);
Greek Life (12); Best College Dorms (14); Best-run Colleges (14); Happiest
Students (17); Best Athletic Facilities (18); and Most Beautiful Campus (20).
The guide's narrative is the most positive for SMU in recent years, focusing on
the quality of the academic and campus experience. Aug. 5, 2013.

http://www.princetonreview.com/college-rankings.aspx.

Rising Forbes Rankings

In Forbes recent rankings of the nation's top colleges, SMU has risen 24 places.
SMU is the highest-ranked institution in North Texas, third-highest in the state
and among the top 100 universities nationwide. The survey ranks SMU 81 out of
650 U.S. colleges and universities based on student satisfaction, post-graduate
success, student debt, graduation rate and nationally competitive awards. The
Forbes rankings are produced annually by the Center for College Affordability
and Productivity in Washington, D.C. July 24, 2013.

http://blog.smu.edu/forum/2013/07/30/smu-rises-24-places-in-2013-forbes-
rankings/

Top Rankings from The Economist and BloombergBusinessweek

The Economist ranks the Cox Executive M.B.A. program at #18 out of 62 business
schools globally in the magazine's first-ever (E.M.B.A.) rankings survey. July
19, 2013.

http://blog.smu.edu/forum/2013/07/29/the-economist-ranks-cox-emba-program-in-top
-20-globally/

BloombergBusinessweek ranks the Cox School of Business 30 among 169 in its 2013
Best Undergraduate B-Schools guide. In the category of business law, Cox ranks
fourth out of 124. June 10, 2013.

http://www.businessweek.com/articles/2013-06-10/the-best-undergraduate-b-schools
-for-business-law

For more information please visit: http://www.smu.edu.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                    Clinch Valley Times (St. Paul, Virginia)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                               September 24, 2015

UVa-Wise earns high marks in College Factuals Most Focused for Social Sciences;

Nationwide rankings focused on outcomes-based data

BYLINE: Clinch Valley Times staff

LENGTH: 359  words


The University of Virginia's College at Wise has been ranked #19 among 1289
colleges nationwide in Most Focused for Social Sciences by College Factual
(www.collegefactual.com), a trusted resource that uses customizable tools and
outcomes-based rankings systems to guide students through the college selection
process.

A number of factors were used to determine these rankings, including how well
the institution retains and graduates students, the average loan debt per
student, the boost in expected earnings, the percentage of full-time teachers,
and the average student loan default rate.

In addition to The University of Virginia's College at Wise's placement in Most
Focused for Social Sciences, the institution also scored well in Most Focused
for History, earning a #19 spot out of 1245. Both of these reflect the
institution's high quality of education as compared to other schools on the
list, which includes both research universities and liberal arts colleges.

You can view all of The University of Virginia's College at Wise's rankings
here: http://www.collegefactual.com/colleges/theuniversity-of-virginias-college
-at-wise/rankings/badges/

"We publish a variety of college rankings to get students and parents focused on
key factors they need to consider when choosing a school," says Bill Phelan, CEO
of College Factual. "How long it will it take you to graduate? 4 or' 6 years?
What will your expected earnings be, and how does that compare? What's the risk
of student loan default? These are tough questions any prospective student
should be asking and we highlight these factors throughout our ranking process."

With a focus on providing sought-after data and unique decision-making tools,
College Factual puts the college rankings process in the hands of students and
parents and not those of institutions or national publications.

College Factual's ranking system is based on a series of algorithms that include
information from the Department of Education, nationally mandated data reporting
for institutions, and Payscale.

For more information about College Factual's rankings, visit
www.collegefactual.com or contact media@collegefactual.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Education

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CVT

                      Copyright 2015 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                       Copyright 2015 Clinch Valley Times


                              51 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    The News & Advance (Lynchburg, Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday

Annual magazine report lists area colleges

BYLINE: Liz Barry, The News and Advance, Lynchburg, Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 855 words


Aug. 18--As students pour into Lynchburg-area colleges for the start of classes,
the U.S. News & World Report's annual college rankings list, out this week, has
local schools well represented in various categories.

But while college rankings can help students narrow their list of potential
schools, local college administrators caution against giving them too much
clout.

"It's just one piece of the total outlook someone should have when they're
looking at schools," said Zach Kincaid, director of marketing at Sweet Briar
College.

The U.S. News & World Report's best colleges guide evaluates approximately 1,400
schools and ranks them in dozens of categories, such as "Best National Liberal
Arts Schools" and "Best Value." Earlier this month, another annual report -- The
Princeton Review guidebook -- released its latest findings, too.

For the past several years, Sweet Briar College has declined to participate in a
survey U.S. News & World Report uses to compile its rankings. SBC is among about
130 schools that comprise the Annapolis Group, a consortium of colleges leading
the fight against college rankings.

Kincaid said that while the rankings help SBC's name recognition, they don't
tell the whole story.

"It doesn't really give the roundedness about who we are and what we represent,"
Kincaid said.

The rankings can be useful for the "quick, critical data," said Rita Detwiler,
Lynchburg College's vice president for enrollment management.

Detwiler echoes Kincaid's sentiment that rankings provide an incomplete picture
of a college's strengths and weaknesses.

"It's the responsibility of family to do further research on the academic and
learning experience a college has to offer," she said.

Here is a look at highlights of how Lynchburg-area schools fared in this year's
rankings from U.S. News & World Report:

- Among Southern colleges and universities, Lynchburg College ranked 40th in the
best regional universities category, compared to 38th last year.

LC also was included on the economic diversity list for the regional
universities division (South), with about 22 percent of undergraduates receiving
Pell grants. In that same division, LC also made the list for racial diversity
and average freshman retention rate, which falls at about 71.5 percent according
to U.S. News & World Report.

- Randolph College ranked 114th in the national liberal arts category, a list of
top colleges and universities that emphasize liberal arts education and award at
least half their degrees in the liberal arts field of study. RC moved up four
spots from its 118 ranking last year.

- Sweet Briar College came in at 101st on the national liberal arts ranking.

-Liberty University made the list for "racial diversity" in the regional
universities division (South). In that same division, it ranked among the top
colleges for freshman retention rate, which hovers around 73.5 percent.

- Virginia public schools fared well in the Top 50 public national universities
ranking, with the University of Virginia ranking second and the College of
William and Mary ranking sixth. Virginia Tech moved up two spots to 27th on that
list. Virginia Military Institute came in third on the list of the Top 5 public
liberal arts colleges.

- On the best national university list, including private schools, UVa is No.
25, W&M is No. 31 and Tech is No. 69. Also ranked are George Mason University at
No. 143 and Virginia Commonwealth University at No. 167.

- VMI ranks 62nd on the full list of the nation's best liberal arts colleges.
Washington and Lee University is 14th and the University of Richmond is 32nd on
the list.

- Other Virginia schools making the liberal arts list are Sweet Briar College,
101; Hollins University, 105; Hampden-Sydney College, 111; Randolph College,
114; Randolph-Macon College, 131; Roanoke College, 158; Eastern Mennonite
University, 181; and Bridgewater College, 187.

Lynchburg College

40th in the best regional universities (South) category

Randolph College

114th in the national liberal arts category

Sweet Briar College

101st  in the national liberal arts category

Liberty University

Ranked among the top colleges for freshman retention rate in regional
universities (South) category

The Princeton Review

Lynchburg College, Randolph College, and Sweet Briar College were included in
The Princeton Review's popular guidebook out this month, "The Best 373 Colleges:
2011 Edition." About 15 percent of the 2,500 four-year colleges in the United
States are selected for this book, which is largely based on student surveys.

The guidebook evaluates schools in dozens of areas, including academics, quality
of life and social scene. For more information, visit www.princetonreview.com.

To see more of The News & Advance, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.newsadvance.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The News and Advance, Lynchburg,
Va. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail services@mctinfoservices.com, or
call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States, call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100818-LY-Annual-magazine-report-lists-area-colleges-20100818

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LY


                       Copyright 2010 The News & Advance


                              52 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education

                            January 30, 2011  Sunday

Can New Online Rankings Really Measure Colleges' Brand Strength? Unlikely,
Experts Say

BYLINE: Kathryn Masterson

SECTION: ADMINISTRATION; News

LENGTH: 1574  words

ABSTRACT

College officials aren't certain that the rankings are telling them whether
their marketing messages are reaching the people they're going after.

FULL TEXT

For a college, what's the value of a tweet? Or a Facebook item and mention on a
blog?

In recent months, a handful of companies have introduced rankings that claim to
calculate a college's brand value or online influence by looking at the
attention an institution receives online. One ranking found that the University
of Wisconsin at Madison has the strongest brand equity among universities, based
on its number of mentions across the Internet. Another named Stanford University
the most influential college on Twitter.

Marketing experts expect the number of online rankings like these to grow,
especially because there's no single way to quantify a college's success in
online marketing. The question is: Based on the formulas used in the
calculations, do rankings actually tell colleges anything useful?

Not really, marketing experts and college leaders say. While rankings such as
Klout's college Twitter analysis and Global Language Monitor's TrendTopper
MediaBuzz-two of those announced in recent weeks-are interesting, they capture a
sliver of what colleges are trying to do with their marketing efforts. And they
don't get at what colleges really want to know: whether their brand messages are
reaching the people they're going after.

Michael Stoner, president of mStoner, a Chicago-based communications firm, is
skeptical that any such ranking has much meaning and value for colleges. While
titillating, he says, "I don't think it really tells us anything."

Colleges and marketers are just starting to try to understand how to measure the
success of their social-media efforts, says Mr. Stoner. Many are counting
"touches"-the number of Twitter followers, the hits on a Web site, the number of
friends or comments on a Facebook page. The more difficult question, he says,
is, What do these measurements mean? Do tweets, blog posts, and Facebook "likes"
translate into someone choosing your college, recommending it to a friend,
attending an alumni event, or making a donation?

Internet Buzz

According to Global Language Monitor, a company in Austin, Tex., that tracks
language usage on the Internet including the most-used words of the year, and
has ranked colleges for three years, the quantity of online mentions can
determine the strength of a college's market position in the market.

Based on the company's calculations, the University of Wisconsin at Madison had
the strongest brand equity last year, based on the number of times its name was
mentioned on the Internet, including blogs, social media, and newspapers. The
methodology for the company's TrendTopper analysis is relatively
uncomplicated-the rating looks only at the raw number of mentions an institution
gets and how that number changes over time, regardless of whether those mentions
appear on the front page of The New York Times or inside a small-town newspaper.
It also does not differentiate between positive mentions and negatives.

The lack of nuance doesn't bother Paul JJ Payack, president of the company. He
argues that straightforward counting makes his rankings simple to use and more
objective than more-established rankings such as U.S. News, which factors in
opinions from other colleges and guidance counselors. Those rankings can be
"clubby" and favor insiders, he says, while his system is more democratic,
spanning a wider range of sources and showing the true value of a college's
brand.

"It really does tell you how you're conversing with the world at large," Mr.
Payack says.

He has sold only about 80 of the e-books that list the rankings since their
release, in January, and last week cut the price from $19.97 to $9.97. He says
prospective students and parents could find the rankings useful if they're
deciding between two colleges that vary in price but have relatively equal brand
rankings.

Expensive Options

The idea that such a ranking should be used in a college search is absurd, says
Elizabeth Scarborough, chief executive of SimpsonScarborough, a higher-education
marketing and branding firm. "I don't even think they're relevant to prospective
students-they're a distraction more than anything else," she says.

TrendTopper isn't a measure of a college's particular fit for students, or even
of brand value, Ms. Scarborough says. Instead, the ratings demonstrate how good
a college's media-relations department is at getting the institution's name out.

There are better ways to measure brand strength, but they're much more
expensive, Ms. Scarborough says. Her firm's research, which can cost $50,000 to
$400,000, includes surveys of key audiences, such as prospective students,
alumni, and business and community leaders, to find out their perceptions of the
institution. Several years later, the surveys are redone to see what changes in
opinions and attitudes have occurred.

At American University, which recently started a "Wonk" branding campaign,
monitoring social-media usage is a good short-term technique for testing the
effectiveness of a campaign, says Terry Flannery, executive director of
university communications and marketing. For example, on the day it started the
campaign, American counted 135 Twitter mentions that used the "Wonk" hashtag in
12 hours (compared with about 10 to 20 that use the "AmericanU" hashtag on a
regular day) and 4,100 visits to the "Wonk" Web site in the campaign's first
week. But long term, those kind of numbers don't tell whether perceptions were
changed by the campaign, or if the loyalty of alumni was strengthened. "That
would not be something we'd hang our hats on by itself," Ms. Flannery says. "I'd
use it in the mix, but I wouldn't be justifying my budget for next year on it."

American's campaign gained both praise and criticism, the latter from students
who found "Wonk" silly or strange. Ms. Flannery says the university expected
that range of reactions and has spent time explaining to people why it's a good
label for the institution and those associated with it.

Still, it isn't enough to just generate buzz, says Larry D. Lauer, vice
chancellor for government affairs at Texas Christian University and a marketing
expert. Colleges need to go after specific audiences they want to reach. A win
in the Rose Bowl earned the Horned Frogs positive media attention. But whether
that helps advance the university in its goals depends on what Texas Christian
does with that open door.

"We need to walk through it and tell the rest of the story," Mr. Lauer says.

Measuring Clout

Ian Hsu, director of Internet media outreach for Stanford, which was named No. 1
in the recent Klout rankings, says he looks at outside companies' rankings
methodology. (Klout, for example, measures influence through a Twitter user's
number of followers compared with the number the user follows, messages that are
retweeted, and lists a Twitter user is included on.) But rankings aren't his
main considerations when he's planning strategy for Stanford's approach on
Twitter, Facebook, and other platforms.

"We don't try to go out of our way to influence these rankings," Mr. Hsu says.

Rather, he looks at online surveys that Stanford conducts to try to get at
whether its social-media outreach matches its core goals and objectives. Are
more people seeing that the university is creating the next generation of
leaders, that Stanford faculty are experts in their fields, and that the
university is making a difference in solving world problems? Do alumni feel
connected to the community?

To the extent he can understand whether outreach efforts are moving perceptions
on those questions, Mr. Hsu says, that's the most useful information. And such
research can sometimes be done inexpensively with in-house online surveys.

Given how Twitter followers and Facebook friends can be quantified, he expects
more companies to come forward with rankings. As that happens, he recommends
that colleges don't get too wrapped up in them. "It can be very tempting to
chase after every ranking or goal that third parties are trying to sell," Mr.
Hsu says. Instead, colleges should "really understand what you're trying to
accomplish" and go after that.

Looking for Data

Dennis Berkey, president of Worcester Polytechnic Institute, admits paying
attention to the new rankings, including Klout and TrendTopper. As a college,
you want to be mentioned, he says. And if you find out no one's talking about
your institution, you have a problem.

But without knowing more about the methodology behind the rankings and what kind
of impression is created when people hear about his college in various media,
there isn't much he can-or would­-do with that information.

Worcester recently hired consultants to do research for a branding campaign,
including surveys about the perceptions of the college held by students, peer
institutions, and institutions that award research grants. Mr. Berkey wants to
know if people are aware of the kinds of scientific research on his campus, or
that Worcester wants its students to use their engineering and math skills to
solve world problems. Over the course of several years, the institution is
likely to spend millions of dollars on marketing research and athe branding
campaign that will come from that work.

"I want to be very certain I have full, complete answers to questions before I
move," Mr. Berkey says. "We're engineers. We want to see the data."

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ian Hsu, director of Internet media outreach at Stanford U., says
colleges shouldn't get too wrapped up in the rankings: "It can be very tempting
to chase after every ranking or goal that third parties are trying to sell."
Linda A. Cicero, Stanford News Service
Can New Online Rankings Really Measure

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                             August 17, 2007 Friday

Some colleges hope to counter rankings' sway

BYLINE: By Matt Krupnick STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Education

LENGTH: 1103 words


It's the toughest time of the year for Lloyd Thacker to stand in a supermarket
line.

With U.S. News & World Report's annual college rankings hitting news racks
Monday -- the rankings are available online today -- Thacker will be spending a
lot of time looking at the publication he has dedicated himself to resisting.

Thacker, who directs the Oregon-based Education Conservancy, has led the growing
nationwide opposition to the 24-year-old U.S. News rankings, which he sees as
the epitome of commercialized higher education. Colleges should not be ranked
based on a uniform scale, he said.

"It has distorted and skewed how (college) admissions are perceived," said
Thacker, a former college counselor. "Their impact far exceeds their educational
relevance."

Through Thursday, Thacker had gathered signatures from more than 60 college
presidents who have vowed to stop completing a major portion of the magazine's
annual survey, which analyzes 1,400 schools across the United States. The
disputed section, which accounts for a quarter of a school's score, rates a
college's reputation among its peers.

Among the institutions refusing to rate their competitors' reputations are St.
Mary's College in Moraga and San Francisco State.

In their hunger for higher rankings, some colleges have increased the number of
scholarships for top-performing students, Thacker said. That system skews
colleges toward more-affluent students and hurts low-income students, who tend
to have lower test scores.

Although college administrators have long grumbled at the popularity and effects
of the U.S. News rankings, school leaders have organized in opposition more than
in years past. Thacker's group is planning a September meeting at Yale
University to discuss alternate ranking systems.

Nevertheless, U.S. News remains a major player in the world of college choice.
At least 97 percent of the schools that participated in this year's U.S. News
rankings plan to continue to do so, according to a survey of more than 300
admissions officers released this week by Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions.

With thousands of colleges and universities available to students, the magazine
is merely providing people a research tool, said U.S. News Editor Brian Kelly.
Critics say that the influential lists lead schools to spend too much money in
specific areas to boost their rankings.

"I think we get blamed for a lot of colleges' behavior that isn't our fault,"
Kelly told reporters Thursday. "The kind of behavior they're talking about here
is often behavior that is good for the schools."

The rankings reward colleges for small class sizes, student-retention and
graduation rates and financial resources. A quarter of each school's overall
score is based on the opinions of administrators at other colleges.

The rankings continue to hold considerable sway for many graduating high school
seniors -- especially those at the most competitive high schools.

"I wasn't looking at any particular book, but you always know the rankings
anyway," said 17-year-old Orinda native Hayley Andrews, who is preparing to
attend New York's Barnard College, ranked 30th among liberal-arts schools by
U.S. News. "It would be hard for me or my friends to explain to people why we
turned down a school that was ranked higher than the school we chose."

The magazine this year tweaked its rankings to compensate for the effects of
low-income students, whose graduation rates are lower. Despite the change, some
administrators say the rankings don't tell students enough about a college.

"The kind of work that U.S. News & World Report does doesn't really get to the
heart of what we do here at St. Mary's," said Michael Beseda, the Moraga
college's vice provost for enrollment. "They've narrowed the discussion in this
country of what an undergraduate education should be."

"Any informed educator who thoughtfully thinks about the ranking systems
realizes (the ranks) are inadequate," Beseda said.

St. Mary's ranked 11th in the western United States this year among colleges
that grant no higher than a master's degree. But Beseda said he prefers surveys
that measure student engagement, in which St. Mary's scores well.

But at UC Berkeley, the top-ranked public university in the country this year,
administrators say the lists offer valuable information when taken in the
context of other sources.

Any ranking system will have its flaws and critics, said Christine Maslach, the
university's vice provost for undergraduate education.

"You always have to take these with a grain of salt," she said. "There's
probably a variety of places where a student would do well."

Although an increasing number of college leaders believe they can attract
students without participating in rankings, the dilemma causes more
consternation among law-school deans.

U.S. News publishes the only widely read law-school rankings, which have led
some schools to take drastic actions to improve their scores, said Christopher
Edley, dean of UC Berkeley's Boalt Hall School of Law.

One prominent school is considering admitting students based solely on
entrance-exam scores to attain a better rank, Edley said.

"By and large, the rankings are a force of evil," said Edley, who nevertheless
speaks frequently of the importance of Boalt's place on the U.S. News list.
"Many good things flow from high rankings. And that's the problem right there."

A highly ranked school attracts more donations, better students and top
professors, he said. For a publicly funded school, where class sizes are larger
and endowments are smaller, it's tough to ignore the rankings.

"A school like Berkeley definitely suffers with the way the rankings are
constructed," Edley said. "We make choices about how we design education here,
and we can be proud of it, but we can't expect it to be universally respected."

Matt Krupnick covers higher education. Reach him at 925-943-8246 or
mkrupnick@bayareanewsgroup.com .

HOW THEY RANK

This year's U.S. News & World Report "America's Best Colleges" rankings:

National universities (bachelor's, master's and doctorate degrees):

1. Princeton

2. Harvard

3. Yale

4. Stanford

5. California Institute of Technology

Other Bay Area and regional schools:

UC Berkeley (No. 21 national university, No. 1 public university)

UC Davis (No. 42 national)

Santa Clara (No. 2 regional master's degree university)

Mills (No. 6 regional master's)

St. Mary's (No. 11 regional master's)

San Jose State (No. 34 regional master's)

San Francisco State (No. 48 regional master's)

Cal State East Bay (No. 58 regional master's)

Cal Maritime (No. 6 regional baccalaureate colleges)

For the complete lists, visit http://www.usnews.com/colleges .

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Students start to arrive for the start of the fall semester at the
University of California, Berkeley on Thursday august 16, 2007 (Laura A. Oda/The
Oakland Tribune)
Students start to arrive for the start of the fall semester at the University of
California, Berkeley on Thursday, August 16, 2007. (Laura A. Oda/ Staff)
Michael Beseda, the vice provost for enrollment, photographed Thursday, August
16, 2007, at St. Mary's College in Moraga, Calif. Beseda is calling for a new
ranking system for colleges. (Bob Pepping/Contra Costa Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                           September 11, 2012 Tuesday
                                  Main Edition

HIGHER EDUCATION;
College listings called lacking

BYLINE: Laura Diamond; Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1046 words



HIGHLIGHT: Some administrators refuse to be surveyed. Subjectivity cited in the
gathering of the closely watched data.


When U.S. News & World Report releases its annual college rankings Wednesday,
students and parents will study the lists in an attempt to find the perfect
school for them.

Few realize the largest single component of the rankings comes from subjective
surveys that ask presidents, other administrators and in some cases high school
guidance counselors to rate colleges.

Some colleges have long opposed the rankings, calling the surveys the most
offensive part because it places too much emphasis on subjective information
that can be manipulated. But U.S. News says the surveys are a logical part of
the process because it asks those in higher education to analyze their peers.

Since 2007, nearly 65 college presidents, many from liberal arts schools, have
signed a letter refusing to fill out the survey and have refused to use the
rankings to promote their school. That's a small portion of the nearly 1,600
colleges ranked, but supporters say other schools stopped completing the surveys
even though they haven't signed the letter. William Bloodworth, the former
president of Augusta State University, and Ruth Knox, president of Wesleyan
College in Macon, signed the letter.

"It is a dubious instrument and just plain silly," said William Durden,
president of Dickinson College in Pennsylvania, who was one of the first to sign
the letter. "Lots of colleges rate themselves supreme and put everyone else in
the bottom. It's a ridiculous process."

The majority of college leaders and those at top-tier schools still complete the
surveys. Brian Kelly, U.S. News editor and chief content officer, said it is a
strong tool that addresses "intangibles" that can't be measured by statistics.

"Who better to evaluate colleges than other college administrators? They are
experts," he said.

Robert Morse, the magazine's director of data research, acknowledged the
criticism in an April 5 blog post about the questionnaire.

"U.S. News knows that peer assessments are subjective, but a school's reputation
for academic quality is important to prospective students, since they know it
could help them get their first job after graduation and make a good impression
if they are planning to apply to graduate school," he wrote.

The group's rankings are under additional scrutiny this year after Emory
University disclosed last month that it intentionally submitted inflated data to
rating publications for more than a decade. Kelly said the false information
would not have affected the No. 20 score Emory received last year.

U.S. News has published the rankings for nearly 30 years and averages 15 million
page views on its website when its new ranking comes out. Many students and
families rely on these rankings when deciding where to apply and enroll. For
colleges, a strong rank attracts academic prestige and higher achieving
students.

Joni Towles, a private college counselor who advises metro Atlanta families,
said parents wrongly assume the rankings are just based on hard data. She
explains that information can be found elsewhere with little effort.

"Considering how aware people are of the rankings, they know very little about
how it's calculated," she said. "Parents are surprised when I tell them about
the surveys. But, even after that, I still have to convince them to look beyond
the ranking."

The magazine calculates rankings using test scores, faculty salaries, per-pupil
spending, alumni giving and other data that is publicly available. Survey
results count between 22.5 percent to 25 percent of a school's score.

A Clemson University administrator caused an uproar in 2009 when she said the
South Carolina school gave below average marks to competitors to make the
college look better. She doubted the college was the only one doing this.

Kelly said they weight the results to eliminate excessively high or low scores
and prevent people from gaming the system.

Bloodworth said the first time he filled out the survey at Augusta State he gave
the college high marks. But it's about 15 years since he filled out the surveys.
He questions their accuracy, noting college leaders are too busy running their
own campuses to spend time studying other schools.

"Also, I didn't like the idea of contributing my time to help a magazine make
money over rankings that don't tell people what they need to know," said
Bloodworth, who ended his 18-year presidency June 30.

Lloyd Thacker, founder of the Education Conservancy, pointed to a drop in survey
response rates as evidence that people increasingly distrust the ranking. The
group discourages families from focusing on the rankings and has called on
presidents to boycott the surveys.

Last year's participation rate was 43 percent, a drop of five percentage points
from the previous year. That's still considered statistically strong, although
at one point the participation rate was more than 20 percentage points higher.

Durden said he expects the rankings to remain popular but that the college won't
change its opinion on the surveys.

"If we represent academic integrity, we will not play a game of filling out
silly forms and using rankings to advance our institutions," Durden said. "We
are supposed to represent firm logic, and this is not that."

Rankings Calculations

U.S. News & World Report uses multiple factors to rank colleges. Each indicator
can contain multiple parts. Percentages listed reflect the weighting used for
National Universities, the category that includes Emory University.

22.5% Undergraduate academic reputation

Surveys of those in a position to judge a school's academic excellence.

20% Retention

Percentage of freshmen returning for sophomore year.

20% Faculty resources

Includes class size, faculty salaries and student-faculty ratio.

15% Student selectivity

Includes acceptance rates, SAT and ACT scores and the proportion of students who
are in the top 10 percent of their high school classes.

10% Financial resources

Spending per student on instruction, research and other related services.
Excludes sports, dorms and hospital spending.

7.5% Graduation rate performance

Shows the effect of programs and policies on graduation rates. Controls for
spending and student characteristics.

5% Alumni giving:

Provides indirect measure of student satisfaction.

Source: U.S. News & World Report, Sept. 12, 2011 explanation of calculations

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2012 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              55 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            August 23, 2005 Tuesday

Magazine ranks local colleges; U.S. News & World Report lists Clarke, Loras and
UD in several categories

BYLINE: MADELIN FUERSTE

SECTION: Tristate; Pg. a3

LENGTH: 548 words


Sending a student to college these days usually involves opening a checkbook and
a copy of U.S. News and World Report's rankings of "America's Best Colleges."

Dubuque's three colleges were listed in several categories of the magazine's
2006 rankings.

Clarke College tied for 24th overall among 54 Midwest institutions in the top
tier of the "Best Comprehensive Colleges - Bachelor's" category. Last year,
Clarke ranked 18th.

College rankings

Best Comprehensive Colleges - Bachelor's:

1. St. Mary's College (IN)

8. Simpson (IA)

9. Central College (IA)

10. Dordt College (IA)

19. Buena Vista (Iowa)

20. Northwestern College (IA)

24. Clarke College

29. Loras College

40. Mount Mercy (IA)

51. Briar Cliff (IA)

Best National Universities

1.Harvard (MA)

Princeton (NJ)

3. Yale

34. UW-Madison

60. University of Iowa

85.Iowa State University

- Source: US News & World Report

Loras College also ranked in the top tier, in a three-way tie for 29th in the
same category as Clarke.

Clarke was also ranked ninth of 10 Midwestern schools in the "Great Schools,
Great Price" category.

Sister Catherine Dunn, BVM, president of Clarke College, said the rankings are
used very little by the college, but matter to parents.

"They look big time at categories like which schools are best buys," Dunn said.
"When I go out and speak with alumni who have children of college age, they
always ask about the rankings."

Clarke also was ranked second in the Midwestern comprehensive category.

Loras College President Jim Collins said the rankings highlight areas where
schools can improve, such as student retention, graduation rate and full-time
faculty - all categories in which Loras bettered itself from last year's
rankings.

"As we continually work to keep quality high, we are never completely satisfied,
which is why at this very moment we are improving facilities and developing our
next set of strategic initiatives," Collins said.

The University of Dubuque ranked 71st in the Midwest's "Best Universities -
Master's" category. The University of Northern Iowa ranked 19th, and
UW-Platteville 50th, in the same category.

Peter Smith, vice president of university relations for UD, said the rankings
can make a school take a look at itself.

"Five or six years ago, we were in the lower tiers, and now we're seeing
ourselves move up into this ranking," Smith said. "But, we're also acutely aware
we have more to do."

The University of Dubuque also ranked second in the Midwest region as the school
whose 2004 master's students graduated with the highest debt.

The rankings indicate 97 percent of UD master's graduates owe an average of
$26,500.  The average amount of debt is defined as "the average cumulative
amount borrowed by those students who incurred debt, not the average for all
students," according to the rankings.

"I think student debt load is something every college in the nation struggles
with, with the exception of those schools with substantial endowments," Smith
said.

U.S. News & World Report began publishing its Guide to America's Best Colleges
in 1983. The magazine said it ranks schools by mission and by region "and data
is gathered from each institution on as many as 15 indicators of academic
excellence," according to U.S. News.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2005 Woodward Communications, Inc.


                              56 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald-Tribune (Florida)

                             August 22, 2008 Friday
                                SARASOTA EDITION

New College in top 5 in national rankings

BYLINE: STAFF REPORT

SECTION: B SECTION; Pg. BN1

LENGTH: 215 words

DATELINE: SARASOTA


Sarasota's New College of Florida has earned a top spot in two national rankings
of liberal arts colleges.

U.S. News & World Report ranked New College fifth in its 2009 listing of public
liberal arts colleges. The magazine ranked the school 94th among all public and
private liberal arts colleges in the country.

New College also earned a top spot from Forbes.com, which rated New College
third among public colleges and 29th overall among public and private colleges.

Forbes also gave New College the top recognition among all colleges in the state
of Florida.

New College, Florida's public honors college, has consistently earned top
rankings in the past few years. Last year, New College earned the No. 4 spot in
the U.S. News & World Report ranking.

The two rankings used graduation rates and student debt as factors. The Forbes
ranking also included student feedback from popular Web sites like
RateMyProfessor.com, where students can evaluate their professors.

The other schools included in the U.S. News & World Report ranking were the U.S.
Military Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, Virginia Military Institute and St.
Mary's College of Maryland.

The Forbes top five also included the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Air Force
Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy and the University of Virginia.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 HERALD-TRIBUNE ARCHIVE / 2008 / ROD MILLINGTON U.S. News & World Report ranked
New College fifth in its 2009 listing of public liberal arts colleges.
Forbes.com rated the school third among public colleges and gave it the top
recognition among all Florida colleges.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 21, 2015 Monday

Pennsylvania: Kiplinger's Personal Finance Rates Juniata in Top 100 for Value

LENGTH: 600  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Harrisburg: Juniata College, The State of Pennsylvania has issued the following
news release:



 Juniata College was rated 92nd this week in Kiplinger's Personal Finance
ranking for "Best Values in Private Liberal Arts Colleges." The 2016 rankings
mark the fifth time Juniata rated inclusion in the annual rankings by the
renowned business publication.





 The personal finance magazine poll ranks 100 liberal arts colleges and 100
private universities that "deliver a high quality education at an affordable
price." According the the magazine's criteria, the colleges exemplify values
sought after by students and parents, including small class sizes, superlative
freshman retention rates and an exemplary four-year graduation rate.



 The liberal arts college rankings will appear in the February 2016 issue of the
magazine, on sale in January.



 Juniata, which was ranked 79th last year, is ranked just above Coe College, in
Cedar Rapids, Iowa, at 93rd, and Wheaton College, in Norton, Mass., at 94th.
Ranked just above Juniata is Wabash College, in Crawfordsville, Ind., at 91st,
and St. John's College, in Annapolis, Md., at 90th.



 Juniata is one of 11 Pennsylvania colleges to be included on the liberal arts
college rankings. Swarthmore College, in Swarthmore, Pa., was rated third in the
poll. Other college rankings are: Haverford College, in Haverford, Pa., at 15th;
Lafayette College, in Easton, Pa., at 36th; Bucknell University, in Lewisburg,
Pa., at 40th; Franklin & Marshall College, in Lancaster, Pa., at 45th; Bryn Mawr
College, in Bryn Mawr, Pa., at 46th; Dickinson College, in Carlisle, Pa., at
50th; Gettysburg College, in Gettysburg, Pa., at 52nd; Muhlenburg College, in
Allentown, Pa., at 62nd; Juniata College at 92nd; and Washington & Jefferson
College, in Washington, Pa., at 100th.
  Kiplinger's Personal Finance editors rank the institutions by measuring
academic quality and affordability. The magazine lists the top 100 universities
and liberal arts colleges in separate tables, using the Carnegie classification
system, which organizes institutions based on the highest level and number of
degrees offered.



 Some of the factors measured by the magazine include: admission rate;
percentage of students who return for sophomore year; student-faculty ratio; and
four-year graduation rate. Criteria for cost includes: sticker prices; financial
aid; and average student indebtedness at graduation.



 "We were the first to assess colleges based on a combination of academic
quality and affordability criteria, and we think our rankings continue to
provide the best, most objective measure of value," says Janet Bodnar, editor of
Kiplinger's Personal Finance magazine. "Families should start with the rankings
and then make a list of potential schools based on their personal interests and
definition of success."



 Kiplinger's also for the first time collated a combined ranking of public and
private institutions. Juniata ranked 178th in the combined poll, out of the 300
public and private colleges and universities ranked.



 The combined rankings are dominated by private institutions because, "the
average financial aid award is a little higher at private schools and so is the
four-year graduation rate," says Kaitlin Pitsker, a Kiplinger's reporter who
collated the data for the combined poll.

 "If you're out in four years you're paying less and incurring less debt," says
Sandra Block, senior associate editor. "Plus you're getting into the workforce
faster."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 21, 2015 Monday

Pennsylvania: Kiplinger's Personal Finance Rates Juniata in Top 100 for Value

LENGTH: 600  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Harrisburg: Juniata College, The State of Pennsylvania has issued the following
news release:



 Juniata College was rated 92nd this week in Kiplinger's Personal Finance
ranking for "Best Values in Private Liberal Arts Colleges." The 2016 rankings
mark the fifth time Juniata rated inclusion in the annual rankings by the
renowned business publication.





 The personal finance magazine poll ranks 100 liberal arts colleges and 100
private universities that "deliver a high quality education at an affordable
price." According the the magazine's criteria, the colleges exemplify values
sought after by students and parents, including small class sizes, superlative
freshman retention rates and an exemplary four-year graduation rate.



 The liberal arts college rankings will appear in the February 2016 issue of the
magazine, on sale in January.



 Juniata, which was ranked 79th last year, is ranked just above Coe College, in
Cedar Rapids, Iowa, at 93rd, and Wheaton College, in Norton, Mass., at 94th.
Ranked just above Juniata is Wabash College, in Crawfordsville, Ind., at 91st,
and St. John's College, in Annapolis, Md., at 90th.



 Juniata is one of 11 Pennsylvania colleges to be included on the liberal arts
college rankings. Swarthmore College, in Swarthmore, Pa., was rated third in the
poll. Other college rankings are: Haverford College, in Haverford, Pa., at 15th;
Lafayette College, in Easton, Pa., at 36th; Bucknell University, in Lewisburg,
Pa., at 40th; Franklin & Marshall College, in Lancaster, Pa., at 45th; Bryn Mawr
College, in Bryn Mawr, Pa., at 46th; Dickinson College, in Carlisle, Pa., at
50th; Gettysburg College, in Gettysburg, Pa., at 52nd; Muhlenburg College, in
Allentown, Pa., at 62nd; Juniata College at 92nd; and Washington & Jefferson
College, in Washington, Pa., at 100th.
  Kiplinger's Personal Finance editors rank the institutions by measuring
academic quality and affordability. The magazine lists the top 100 universities
and liberal arts colleges in separate tables, using the Carnegie classification
system, which organizes institutions based on the highest level and number of
degrees offered.



 Some of the factors measured by the magazine include: admission rate;
percentage of students who return for sophomore year; student-faculty ratio; and
four-year graduation rate. Criteria for cost includes: sticker prices; financial
aid; and average student indebtedness at graduation.



 "We were the first to assess colleges based on a combination of academic
quality and affordability criteria, and we think our rankings continue to
provide the best, most objective measure of value," says Janet Bodnar, editor of
Kiplinger's Personal Finance magazine. "Families should start with the rankings
and then make a list of potential schools based on their personal interests and
definition of success."



 Kiplinger's also for the first time collated a combined ranking of public and
private institutions. Juniata ranked 178th in the combined poll, out of the 300
public and private colleges and universities ranked.



 The combined rankings are dominated by private institutions because, "the
average financial aid award is a little higher at private schools and so is the
four-year graduation rate," says Kaitlin Pitsker, a Kiplinger's reporter who
collated the data for the combined poll.

 "If you're out in four years you're paying less and incurring less debt," says
Sandra Block, senior associate editor. "Plus you're getting into the workforce
faster."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                              June 18, 2017 Sunday

Is USU or BYU Utah's safest college?

LENGTH: 666 words


By Scott Taylor

Deseret News

SALT LAKE CITY - Utah's safest college is Utah State University. Or is it
Brigham Young University? But wait, local college-bound students may look
farther north and see Brigham Young University-Idaho as an even safer
alternative.

Don't worry, all that could change - because it frequently does. Especially when
considering the varying results of different annual "safe college" rankings and
their methodologies. And the rankings can be as fluid, subjective and diverse as
those for college football or basketball teams.

The most recent college safety rankings were released last week - the "Top 100
Safest Colleges in America," by the National Council for Home Safety and
Security, a national trade association comprised of licensed alarm installers,
contractors and other similar trade groups.

Utah colleges listed on the top 100 ranking include Utah State University at No.
13, Brigham Young University at No. 25 and Utah Valley University at No. 32.

Brigham Young University- Idaho, of Rexburg, Idaho, is ranked second overall,
sandwiched between the top-ranked University of New Hampshire and No. 3 Oakland
University of Rochester, Michigan. The University of Massachusetts and
Washington State University round out the top five.

The Alarm.com rankings are based on a grading metric involving numbers from the
FBI's Uniform Crime Reporting and the National Center for Education Statistics.
Scores for the more than 2,000 four-year colleges and universities with a
student population over 15,000 were weighted:

* 22.5 percent given to criminal crimes (murder, manslaughter, sexual assault,
robbery, burglary, motor vehicle theft and arson)

* 22.5 percent for VAWA incidents (Violence Against Women Acts, such as domestic
violence, dating violence and stalking)

* 5 percent for arrests such as illegal weapons, drug law violations and liquor
law violations

* 50 percent for other local crimes.

The rankings also categorize incidents on location - off campus, on campus or in
student housing.

But a quick internet glance shows similar safe-college rankings from other
entities over the past year or so, and all with varied results.

Last fall, Collegechoice.net - an online service helping students and families
find colleges and offering all sorts of rankings and lists - offered its "50
Safest Large Colleges and Universities in America" list, based on a three-year
study with "grades" given on general safety, anti-discrimination, women's
safety, party scene and fire safety.

In that ranking, BYU came out 6th overall, with Weber State 10th and Utah State
11th. The top five were Thomas Edison State University, Trenton, New Jersey;
CUNY Barach College, Manhattan, New York; University of Houston-Downtown;
University of Massachusetts Boston; and Columbia (Missouri) College.

Also last fall, Safewise.com - an online site that provides home safety and
security reviews, comparisons and advice - published its annual "30 Safest
College Towns in America." No Utah university- hosting city made the cut, but
BYU-Idaho's Rexburg was ranked at No. 6.

Meanwhile, the variance from one year to the next is obvious in safe-college
rankings offered by Niche.com, an online review site that uses national data and
student reviews to base its methodology to rank public schools, colleges and
neighborhoods in a number of topics and categories.

BYU earned Niche.com's top billing among its "25 Safest College Campuses in
America" in the website's 2016 rankings, released in January 2016, while
BYU-Idaho came in at No. 10. (Business Insider ran the Niche.com's list last
year and erroneously was credited as the source of the ranking by some media,
including the Deseret News.)

A year later, a different BYU took top honors on the Niche.com "25 Safest
College Campuses in America," with BYU-Idaho receiving the No. 1 ranking.

So, if your favorite college is or isn't listed on a safe-college ranking,
you've now been warned - that could easily change in the near future.

Email: taylor@deseretnews.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2017 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                              60 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Carroll Eagle, Westminster, Md

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 11, 2013 Wednesday

McDaniel improves in U.S. News & World Report rankings

BYLINE: Blair Ames, Carroll Eagle, Westminster, Md.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 431 words


Sept. 11--McDaniel College improved its ranking from 2013 in the U.S. News &
World Report Best Colleges 2014 Rankings released Tuesday.

McDaniel was ranked in an eight-way tie for 126th out of 250 National Liberal
Arts Colleges, which are schools that award at least half of their degrees in
liberal arts fields of study.

Williams College in Williamstown, Mass., ranked first in the category. McDaniel
ranked 140th in the U.S. News & World Report rankings last year.

The U.S. News & World Report rankings are compiled through scoring indicators of
college excellence, such as freshman retention rate, graduation rates, and the
strength of the faculty. Each category is given a weight, representing how much
each measure matters in the eyes of U.S News & World Report.

McDaniel was again named an "A-Plus School for B Students," which lists schools
with strong ratings in the 2014 report that also have high freshman retention
rates.

The college has been listed in this section of the report for three of the past
four years, according to college spokeswoman Cheryl Knauer.

McDaniel has a freshman retention rate of 81.8 percent, Knauer said.

McDaniel has also recently been ranked strongly by other college ranking
reports.

The college was named a "Best-Bang-for-the-Buck" by Washington Monthly in
August, which ranks the economic value students receive per dollar spent on a
college education.

McDaniel has also been included for the first time among The Princeton Review's
"Best in the Northeast"

and was the only Maryland liberal arts college named a "Best Value" by
Kiplinger's Personal Finance, according to a news release from the college.

McDaniel College President Roger Casey said the recognition the college has
received from different rankings "reflects the college's increasing national
prominence and solidifies McDaniel as one of the nation's top liberal arts
colleges."

"We certainly appreciate the visibility that these accolades bring to the
institution," Casey said. "Our campus is now populated with diverse students
from throughout the United States and globally who first learned of McDaniel
from these rankings and guidebooks."

McDaniel's tuition is $36,960 per semester plus $8,640 for room and board, but
the average cost for students is lower with 73 percent of students receiving
scholarships and grants from the college. The average need-based scholarship or
grant award is $23,284, according to Knauer.

___ (c)2013 the Carroll Eagle (Westminster, Md.) Visit the Carroll Eagle
(Westminster, Md.) at www.baltimoresun.com/explore/carroll Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130911-1CG-McDaniel-improves-in-U-S-News-World-Report-rankings
-0911-20130911

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1CG


                 Copyright 2013 Carroll Eagle, Westminster, Md


                              61 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             June 24, 2017 Saturday

NATA announces rankings late, colleges fleece students

BYLINE: Kevin Mendonsa

SECTION: MANGALURU

LENGTH: 484 words


Mangaluru: The delay in announcement of rankings by the National Aptitude Test
in Architecture (NATA) has meant parents losing sleep and money.Reason: Some of
the managements of private engineering colleges, who start admissions before
NATA rankings are announced, have taken an undertaking from the parents that
they will not get the money back in case their wards get a merit seat in the
same college or elsewhere. Caught in a catch-22 situatio, parents were forced to
accept the dictatorial terms and conditions due to the lackadaisical attitude of
NATA, which announced the rankings on June 21 and kept the last date for
verification also on the same day.The students, who had submitted their original
markscards to the colleges while opting for management quota, were unable to
attend document verification process as originals were held by the private
college managements. A parent, who got his ward admitted to a private college
under the management quota, said: The NATA test was held on April 16 and the
results were announced on June 10 without the rankings.

Fearing that my daughter may not get a seat in the college of our choice, I had
applied for a seat under management quota and got it. Now that the NATA has
announced rankings, we could not go for document verification because the
original marks cards were with the management. On top of that, the date of
varification was also on June 21, the day rankings were announced.Another parent
says it is a fraud. "On one hand, NATA announces results and rankings late and
on the other hand, private colleges are allowed to fill up their management
quota before the rankings are announced. This should stop and colleges should be
allowed to start admission process only after the rankings are announced, he
demanded. "Even if a student and his parents are confident of getting admission
in merit quota, the practise of filling up management quota seats before the
rankings are announced gives rise to fear in the minds of parents and forces
them to pay money to get admissions,'' the parent said. It is another matter if
we want admission in a particular college, the parent observed.When TOI
contacted one of the institutes in Deralakatte, a person from the management
side said: "The college doesn't have a practice of taking fee money in advance
from aspirants or undertakings. We follow norms very strictly. The candidate
will seek admission only after the announcement of NATA results. Apart from it,
we also look into his/her performance in class 12 and candidates' parents are
counselled before taking up the course. Only the interested candidates with
mixture of intelligence and creativity are taken." The college has an intake of
40 seats. Another official from a college near Inoli in Mangaluru said they
reimburse the money or adjust the same when a candidate's ranking is upgraded as
merit seat.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      June 21, 2001 Thursday CITY EDITION

RANK OPPORTUNISM;
U.S. NEWS' COLLEGE RANKINGS PLAY INTO THE INSTITUTIONS' RECRUITMENT EFFORTS, BUT
CRITICS SAY THEY ARE OF MIXED VALUE.

BYLINE: Deborah Locke, Editorial Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 907 words


This fall, an elephant will walk into college admissions offices all over the
country and take a seat. Some colleges deny the elephant's presence or regard it
warily; others welcome the fickle animal because it brings good tidings.

The elephant is an apt metaphor for the U.S. News & World Report college ranking
, published each September. Through a mysterious process known to only a few
magazine staff members, 1,400 colleges and universities will be evaluated and
ranked according to quality. In our rank-obsessed country with the Top 10 of
Everything, it's easy to see how the report caught on.

What's complex is the fairness of the rankings, and ways the magazine changes
how colleges and universities operate, said Ronald Ehrenberg, a Cornell
University economics professor and leading researcher on the impact of the
magazine's rankings on higher education.

Ehrenberg and a host of economists and college administrators from all over
participated last week in a forum at Macalester College. The conference
addressed the way higher education institutions compete and/or cooperate with
each other. Into that setting, a session on the rankings phenomenon fit well.
Ehrenberg's data shows that whether deserved or not, college administrators and
prospective students pay a lot of attention to the numbers. When the ranking
improves even a fraction, the number of applications goes up, and so does the
average Scholastic Aptitude Test score of the newly enrolled freshman class.
When the rankings fall, the reverse occurs.

An interesting conclusion by Ehrenberg: The tweaking and adjusting that schools
do to improve their rankings has little to do with improving the quality of
education for students. And this: U.S. News does a pretty good job of evaluating
similar raw data from all of the colleges and universities, but it's far from
scientifically objective.

For example, a school's academic reputation counts for 25 percent of its total
score. Only 67 percent of college administrators responded to last year's survey
asking them to judge academic reputation. Colleges refusing to participate
complain that the ranking produces a front end "beauty contest," with no
attention to the quality of the education or the way it's later used.

The rankings also measure student selectivity, for 15 percent of the final
score. Schools that accept a very small number of applicants are assumed to be
more selective. If a high percentage of accepted applicants actually enroll at
the school (yield), the school is considered more selective and gains points in
the rankings.

Ehrenberg found that colleges and universities influence acceptance rates to get
a more favorable ranking. For example, the admissions officers at a prominent
public university historically discouraged applicants who would not be accepted
from applying in the first place. But in a turnabout to sweeten acceptance/yield
rates and appear more selective, they began to solicit applications from
less-qualified students who were certain to be rejected. Consequently, the
school's applicant pool was widened, to make the school seem more prestigious.

Macalester has moved up in U.S News rankings over the past decade, said Michael
McPherson, the president. It's ranked 25 in a field of 50 of the top national
liberal arts colleges. Macalester administrators pay attention to the rankings
not because they measure the quality of an education, but because they offer a
convenient way for high school students to begin a college search, he said.

I graduated from Macalester just over a decade ago, and insisted to McPherson
that my education was equal to what kids get today. Wrong. McPherson pointed out
that the college now has smaller classes, more professors, better science
facilities and other improvements. "All of that does translate into providing a
better education," he said "My view is that there is a real difference between a
school ranked in the top 25 of a U.S. News ranking and a school ranked in the
third tier. Where U.S. News gets crazy is in suggesting there's a meaningful
difference between a college ranked 25 and another ranked 28."

The University of St. Thomas was ranked ninth out of about 35 top Midwestern
universities, according to the report (www.usnews.com). UST views the ranking as
very positive visibility, said Marla Friederichs, UST associate vice president
for admissions and financial aid. Admissions literature sent to prospective
students included the ranking, as did the alumni magazine. However, next year
UST moves into the "national university" category, which gives more weight to
the doctoral programs in business and law. Its rank could change.

St. Cloud State University falls into the U.S. News third tier, said university
spokeswoman Lisa Helmin Foss. The rankings give weight to graduation rates; yet
many SCSU students are nontraditional students who take one class a semester. It
seems to me that U.S. News too heavily weighs who should attend a school, rather
than who does.

Another criticism: The ranking system heavily considers incoming students rather
than graduates. Better data would report how much the students learned. How did
they change as people? What are their lives like later? What do they contribute
to their communities?

That information may be tougher to paste to a grid, but it paints a clearer
portrait.

Write locke at dlocke@pioneerpress.com or 345 Cedar St., St.Paul MN 55101.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 11, 2017 Wednesday

Wofford again among U.S. News best national liberal arts colleges

LENGTH: 997  words



Columbia: Wofford College has issued the following news release:

Wofford College again improved its ranking among the top national liberal arts
colleges in U.S. News & World Report's 2018 edition of "America's Best Colleges,
" ranked at #71, up from #77 last year, according to the report released today
(Tuesday, Sept. 12, 2017).


Wofford also is ranked #42 on the list of "Best Value Schools" and #56 in the
"High School Counselor Rankings" among national liberal arts colleges.
U.S. News lists 229 institutions in its "national liberal arts college" rankings
; there are about 500 liberal arts colleges in the country.
"Wofford's continued recognition as one of the best institutions of higher
education in the country by U.S. News reflects our commitment to being a
premier, innovative and distinctive national liberal arts college defined by
excellence, engagement and transformation in preparing our students for
meaningful lives as citizens, leaders and scholars," President Nayef Samhat
says. "We consistently are recognized in the leading college guides and
publications for our academic rigor, outstanding faculty, study abroad
participation and successful graduates.
"The recognition of Wofford as a best value college reflects our long-term
commitment to balancing two important priorities: offering an outstanding
residential academic program and focusing on affordability for a wide range of
students and their families," Samhat continues.
 Related Links
    Apply to Wofford College
     Financial Aid at Wofford
The U.S. News Best Colleges rankings, now in their 33rd year, "provide an
excellent starting point" for the college search, the publication says,
reminding users to "keep in mind that the rankings provide a launching pad for
more research, not an easy answer." The rankings are based on "such widely
accepted indicators of excellence as first-year retention rates, graduation
rates and the strength of the faculty."
The ranking system "rests on two pillars. The formula uses quantitative and
qualitative measures that education experts have proposed as reliable indicators
of academic quality, and it is based on our researched view of what matters in
education."
The category in which Wofford is ranked - national liberal arts colleges -
includes institutions that focus almost exclusively on undergraduate education,
awarding at least half of their degrees in the arts and sciences, the
publication says.
Most of the data U.S. News uses to arrive at its rankings is provided by the
colleges themselves through an annual statistical survey.
For the "best value" ranking, U.S. News takes into account the institution's
academic quality, as indicated by its 2018 U.S. News Best Colleges ranking, and
the 2016-2017 net cost of attendance for a student who received the average
level of need-based financial aid. The higher the quality of the program and the
lower the cost, the better the deal. Only institutions ranked in or near the top
half of their categories are included because U.S. News considers the most
significant values to be among colleges that are above average academically.
This year, there are 108 institutions in the best value national liberal arts
colleges.
For the ranking by high school counselors, U.S. News asks guidance counselors
from a nationwide sampling of public high schools in the U.S. News Best High
Schools rankings that were gold, silver or bronze winners as well as from the
largest private independent schools nationwide to tell them which national
universities and national liberal arts colleges they think offer the best
undergraduate education to their students. The three most recent years of survey
results, from spring 2015, spring 2016 and spring 2017, were averaged to compute
the score used in the ranking. There are 215 institutions in the ranking this
year.
Wofford continues to be included in national college guides for its outstanding
academic program, its value and its commitment to economic diversity.
In May, for the third consecutive year - since the list first appeared - Wofford
was named to the New York Times' "Top Colleges Doing the Most for the American
Dream," a ranking called the College Access Index that includes the most
economically diverse colleges in the country. Wofford ranks at #103 on the list
of 171 public and private colleges and universities, which bases its ranking on
the number of lower- and middle-income students - those eligible for Pell Grants
- who enroll and the price the college charges them.
Earlier in the year, Wofford was included in The Princeton Review's "Colleges
That Pay You Back: The 200 Schools that Give You the Best Bang for Your Tuition
Buck." The list recognizes institutions for their outstanding academics as well
as their affordability.
The Princeton Review recently featured Wofford in the 2018 edition of its
flagship college guide "The Best 382 Colleges," the nation's best institutions
for undergraduate education.
Wofford continues to be among "America's Top Colleges" by Forbes magazine, a
list Wofford has been on since its inception. Wofford is #140 on the list and is
#26 among the best in the South. Wofford also is #57 among Top Liberal Arts
Colleges, #99 among Top Private Colleges and #94 among Grateful Grads, a list of
institutions whose alumni give back to the college.
Wofford also was ranked #145 in Forbes' "America's Best Value Colleges," an
index of "300 schools that deliver the best bang for the tuition buck based on
tuition costs, school quality, post-grad earnings, student debt and graduation
rates."
In July, Wofford was included in Fiske Guide to Colleges 2018, another
prestigious guidebook that profiles colleges and universities on a broad range
of subjects, including student body, academics, social life, financial aid,
campus setting, housing, food and extracurricular activities

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             Goshen News (Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 13, 2012 Thursday

Goshen College ranks 140th in nation

BYLINE: John Kline, Goshen News, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 761 words


Sept. 13--GOSHEN -- The annual college rankings by U.S. News and World Report
were released this week, and Goshen College has once again been included in the
organization's list of best colleges in the United States.

Officially announced Wednesday, the 2013 rankings list GC at 140th in the
National Liberal Arts category, which includes those colleges and universities
that award at least half of their degrees in the liberal arts fields of study.
That ranking is nearly identical to the college's 2012 ranking of 139th out of
236 nationally ranked liberal arts colleges.

"If you look at the actual data, there are about five of us that have tied for
140th," said James Townsend, vice president for enrollment management and
marketing at GC. "When you look at the schools that are ranked with us or a
little higher up than us, it's great company to be in. I'm proud to stand
alongside many of these schools."

According to Townsend, the annual college rankings are determined by a large
combination of factors including everything from alumni giving rates to student
graduation rates and average SAT/ACT scores.

"Basically what these rankings do is give parents and students a number of
metrics to look at when considering a potential college or university," Townsend
said. "For example, if you're looking for things like diversity, or retention
rates, or the types of graduates produced, it provides some insights to parents
and students as to how to narrow down their choices."

While the rankings are admittedly important when it comes to a college or
university's ability to attract new students, Townsend was quick to note that
the rankings are just one of a number of factors that go into a student's final
decision to attend one institution over another.

"It's interesting, because you're starting to see where some schools are saying
'Hey, we're in U.S. News and World Report's Best Colleges list.' Well, every
college is in there, it just depends on where you're ranked," Townsend said. "So
I encourage parents and students to use it as one metric, but don't just use one
factor as the only indicator for which college to attend."

As one example, Townsend noted several incidents in the recent past where
colleges were found to be manipulating their data just so they could achieve a
higher ranking.

"That has been the unfortunate part of it -- the lengths that schools will go to
to increase their rankings," Townsend said. "But really, when the students come
to the campus and meet the instructors and maybe sit in on a class or two,
that's where they really see what life on that particular campus is like. So
while I encourage students to have a top 10 list, I always encourage them to
visit the campuses before making their final choice."

Overall, Townsend said he is happy with the college's 140th ranking, saying he
feels it's an accurate reflection of the quality education the college is
providing to its students.

"We already had one of the highest retention rates among similar colleges, which
shows that what students are finding when they come here is that we're meeting
or exceeding expectations, and they're choosing to stay here to finish out their
degrees," Townsend said. "When people have 4,000 choices of colleges out there,
anything that can let them explore who you are, anything that can get us
connected to those families and have them come visit our website, it's
definitely a positive."

Averaging an annual enrollment of approximately 1,000 students, GC's current
enrollment according to the U.S. News and World Report appears to be holding
pretty steady with a total enrollment listing of 945 students, approximately 893
of which are undergraduate students.

"Enrollment right now is about the same as it has been in previous years,"
Townsend said. "One of my goals when I first came to the campus on June 1 was to
discover more opportunities to let people know about GC. I've worked at two
other institutions and have 25 years of experience in Christian education. What
I've learned about GC is just how much I like what's happening here, and I know
there are many more out there who will be as equally impressed if they're given
the opportunity to discover us.

"We don't want to brag too much, but we want to get the info out there, so we'll
be doing more to get the word out to these students about the opportunities
available here. So I think we will definitely see an increase in enrollment next
year."

___ (c)2012 the Goshen News (Goshen, Ind.) Visit the Goshen News (Goshen, Ind.)
at www.goshennews.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120913-GW-Goshen-College-ranks-140th-in-nation-0913-20120913

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GW


                           Copyright 2012 Goshen News


                              65 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                          September 12, 2012 Wednesday

U.S. News college rankings: not the only way to judge schools;
The U.S. News & World Report annual ranking of colleges is out. But there are
other rankings available, giving prospective students and their families
information that may be more useful.

BYLINE: Stacy Teicher Khadaroo Staff writer

LENGTH: 809 words


It's a ritual for students in the throes of the college search: poring over the
rankings offered by U.S. News & World Report.

But a growing set of alternative rankings have been cropping up to give students
(and parents) other angles to consider as they try to find the best fit.

Want to know how often students have chosen one school over another if accepted
to both? How well a school does in serving an economically diverse student body?
Or how well alumni are faring in the 'real world'? Some of these other options
may be for you.

Whichever rankings you choose to peruse, the best approach is to compare as much
information as you can based on the factors most important to you, many college
-guidance experts say.

College rankings "do have an impact on where students choose to go to college.
... [But] just going to the best-ranked school that you got into might not be
the best choice for you individually," says Amanda Griffith, an assistant
professor of economics at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem N.C., who has
researched the college-selection process.

1. Student Choice

The Student Choice College Rankings are based on more than 200,000 college
acceptances, so students can see where students with similar characteristics to
them have been admitted and have chosen to attend.

Rankings are "often based on all sorts of input-type factors, like how selective
[a school is] or how much [it] pays faculty... [and] those inputs can be gamed
or selectively reported," says Matt Pittinsky, CEO of Parchment Inc., a high
school transcript service that created the ranking system last year. "What we're
doing is saying, 'Let's think about student choice: When a student gets into two
schools, which one do they pick?' "

Schools are assigned points when they are chosen, with less-selective schools
getting more points for beating out institutions that are very difficult to get
into.

Harvard, Stanford, and Yale took the top three slots this year. The Top 10 also
includes MIT, Princeton, University of Chicago, Brown, Caltech, Amherst, and the
US Air Force Academy.

Student Choice creators wanted a ranking that didn't separate schools into
categories such as liberal arts colleges or research universities, since many
students consider all types of schools.

Among the comparison tools available on Parchment.com is a "College Matchup"
system where students can plug in two school names to see the percentage of
students who preferred one over the other.

2. Washington Monthly

Washington Monthly's annual college guide offers yet another approach to
rankings - one based on how well higher education institutions are serving the
nation - through social mobility, research production, and fostering public
service.

Thirteen of the top 20 universities in Washington Monthly's ranking are public,
while all of the top 20 in the U.S. News ranking are private.

The website shows not only where schools rank, but how they did on each of the
various factors measured.

The social-mobility scale highlights schools that produce graduation rates
higher than would be expected based on the demographic background of their
students. This year, the net price students pay (after grants are taken into
account) was factored in as well, to reward schools that give the biggest bang
for the buck.

Elizabeth City State University, a historically black institution in North
Carolina, for instance, has an expected graduation rate of just 19 percent, yet
42 percent of its students graduate. "There's a story going on there, and they
do it at an average net price of about $1,400 for the academic year," says
Rachel Fishman, a policy analyst with the New America Foundation's Education
Policy Program, which collaborated on the rankings.

Washington Monthly's top three liberal arts colleges are Bryn Mawr College,
Swarthmore College, and Berea College (71st in U.S. News). The top three
national universities are the University of California-San Diego, Texas A&M
(58th in U.S. News), and Stanford.

3. Alumni Factor

The Alumni Factor rankings, based on surveys of alumni from more than 450
colleges and universities, score 177 top schools on 15 attributes, including
overall happiness, value for the money, intellectual development, average net
worth of graduates, and whether they would recommend the school to a friend.

The website offers a free seven-day trial to explore its offerings, and then
charges $3.95 to $5.95 for various membership levels.

4. US Department of Education

While the US Department of Education is not exactly in the college rankings
game, it, too, is trying to improve the level of information easily accessible
to students comparing their options.

In June, for instance, it published its annual college costs lists which detail
schools with the highest and lowest published sticker price, the highest and
lowest net price, and where prices are rising the fastest.


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             April 5, 2016 Tuesday

3 city colleges in country's top 100

BYLINE: Ardhra Nair

SECTION: PUNE

LENGTH: 1057 words


Pune: Poona College of Pharmacy, College of Engineering, Pune, and Defence
Institute of Advanced Technology are among the 10 educational institutes from
the city in top 100 in the National Institutions Ranking Framework released on
Monday.The Union human resource development ministry declared the rankings for
the top 100 pharmacy, engineering, management colleges and other universities on
Monday, in New Delhi.Bharati Vidyapeeth's Poona College of Pharmacy has secured
the fourth rank in the country in the pharmacy list, while College of
Engineering, Pune bagged the 21st rank among the engineering colleges across the
country. Savitribai Phule Pune University, Symbiosis group of institutes,
Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics (GIPE) do not figure in the
list.Three colleges from Maharashtra are among the top 25 engineering colleges
while one management college, five pharmacy colleges and two universities
feature in the top 25 list of respective institutions in the national ranking.KD
Jadhav, joint secretary of Bharati Vidyapeeth, said, "We had expected the
college's name in the top 10 list. This was the first pharmacy college in the
state established in 1981. Today, almost all principals of pharmacy colleges in
the state are from our college. It has a rich legacy and research-wise, we are
the best with a maximum number of PhD students graduating every year."W N Gade,
vice-chancellor of Pune university said they had not uploaded the data on the
portal.

"There was some technical issue and we were unable to upload our data before the
deadline. We will be part of the ranking process in the current year," the
vice-chancellor added.Vidya Yeravdekar, principal director of Symbiosis Society,
said the group had not participated in the ranking. "We had queries about
certain parameters. We had written a couple of times to the University Grants
Commission and ministry of human resource development, but our queries were
unanswered. We will participate in the forthcoming ranking provided we get
answers to our queries," she added.Another surprise was the non-inclusion of
GIPE. "I too am surprised that our name did not feature in the list. We had
uploaded our data on the portal, but we had a tough time as it was showing error
messages. I will check what went wrong," Gokhale Institute director Rajas
Parchure said.Defence Institute of Advanced Technology was the only university
from Pune to make it to the top 100 list. P K Khanna, officiating vice
chancellor of DIAT, said their vice chancellor S Pal was away. "We are excited
to be ranked in the top 100 list by NIRF. We are determined to improve and will
be in the top 10 list in the next few years. This is an outcome of excellent
research, learned faculty and leaders, supportive administration, quality
students and world-class facilities that DIAT has to offer," he said Pune
figuresBOX 1:Pharamcy college---location---Score---ranking (out of 100)Poona
College of Pharmacy----Pune---70.92---4Sinhgad Institute of Pharmacy
Pune----52.74---30Aissms College of Pharmacy Pune----52.17----33Sinhgad
Technical Education Society's Sinhgad College of
Pharmacy----Pune---48.89----46BOX: 2Engineering College---Location---Score---
Ranking (out of 100)College Of Engineering-Pune---69.71----21Bharati Vidyapeeth
Deemed University College of Engineering----Pune----56.56----61Vishwakarma
Institute of Technology---Pune--55.70----64Maharashtra Academy of Engineering
and Educational Research---Pune--49.66-------95BOX: 3University---
Location---Score---Ranking (out of 100)Institute of Armament Technology (now
DIAT) ---Pune---64.05---38BOX: 4Management College---Location--- Score---Ranking
(out of 50)Institute of Management & Entrepreneurship
Development----Pune---54.04-----46----------------------------------------------
------------------------------------------------------------------------Maharash
tra figures: IF NEEDEDBOX: 1Pharamcy college---location---Score---ranking (out
of 100)Poona College of Pharmacy----Pune---70.92---4Bombay College of
Pharmacy---Mumbai---69.48---6R. C. Patel Institute of Pharmaceutical Education &
Research----Shirpur---57.25---14H.R.Patel Institute of Pharmaceutical Education
And Research----Shirpur----54.18---24Bharati Vidyapeeth College of
Pharmacy----Kolhapur---53.97---25Mvp Samaj's College of
Pharmacy---Nashik----53.16---28Sinhgad Institute of Pharmacy
Pune----52.74---30Aissms College of Pharmacy Pune----52.17----33Sinhgad
Technical Education Society's Sinhgad College of
Pharmacy----Pune---48.89----46BOX: 2Engineering College---Location---Score---
Ranking (out of 100)Indian Institute of
Technology---Mumbai---87.66---2Visvesvaraya National Institute of
Technology----Nagpur----71.29-----18College Of
Engineering-Pune---69.71----21Bharati Vidyapeeth Deemed University College of
Engineering----Pune----56.56----61Vishwakarma Institute of
Technology-----55.70----64University Institute of Chemical Technology, North
Maharashtra University---Jalgaon--54.91----68Kasegaon Education Society's
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology---islampur----53.69---75Veermata Jijabai
Technological Institute----Mumbai----52.17----84K. K. Wagh Institute of
Engineering Education & Research---Nashik---51.92----85Shri Ramdeobaba College
of Engineering and Management---Nagpur---51.50----86Shri Guru Gobind Singhji
Institute of Engineering and Technology--Nanded--50.64----89Yeshwantrao Chavan
College of Engineering--Nagpur--50.14----93Maharashtra Academy of Engineering
and Educational Research---Pune--49.66-------95Government College Of
Engineering----Aurangabad---49.51----97BOX: 3University--- Location---Score---
Ranking (out of 100)Institute of Chemical Technology---Mumbai---87.58----2Homi
Bhabha National Institute-----Mumbai----72.06---17Shivaji
University----Kolhapur----66.53---28Institute of Armament
Technology---Pune---64.05---38North Maharashtra
University----Umavinagar----57.28---59Narsee Monjee Institute of Management
Studies-Mumbai--54.04--72Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada
University----Aurangabad----50.07----87BOX: 4Management College---Location---
Score---Ranking (out of 50)S. P. Jain Institute of Management &
Research---Mumbai---74.59---16Institute of Management Technology----Nagpur
----58.85-----39Institute of Management & Entrepreneurship
Development----Pune---54.04-----46eom

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education

                             April 20, 2007 Friday

Anti-Rankings Campaign Stirs New Criticisms of 'U.S. News' Guides

BYLINE: ERIC HOOVER

SECTION: STUDENTS; Pg. 41 Vol. 53 No. 33

LENGTH: 889 words


A letter urging college presidents to distance themselves from institutional
rankings circulated this month as the leaders of several liberal-arts colleges
renewed their criticisms of U.S. News & World Report's annual guides.

A dozen college presidents received the letter on April 2. The text, a copy of
which was obtained by The Chronicle, describes college rankings as based on
"misleading" data that "degrade the educational worth for students of the
college search process."

The letter asks presidents to make three "commitments," including refusing to
fill out the U.S. News's "reputational survey," a measure the magazine uses to
assess administrators' opinions of peer colleges. (The result accounts for 25
percent of a college's ranking.)

The letter also urges presidents to refuse to promote their colleges' rankings
or refer to them as an indication of institutional quality, although it stops
short of advising against referring to rankings at all. "In accord with these
commitments, you may want to provide a link on your Web site to information
about how you are ranked," it says, "but to do this in a way that simply
provides information, not in a way that suggests you value the specific ranking
or support the ranking project."

Douglas Bennett, president of Earlham College, is a co-author of the letter. The
rankings, he said, imply a false level of authority and fail to account for
differences among diverse types of colleges. "The aggregation of lots of data,
none of which is based on sound measurements, is crap, deep and deep through,"
he said. "The reputational survey is the passing along of rumors."

As copies of the letter zipped around academe, it reached officials at dozens of
institutions, including many members of the Annapolis Group, which represents
124 private liberal-arts colleges. Some presidents of those institutions said
they had stopped filling out the reputational survey this spring. Others said
they were considering doing so next year.

Christopher B. Nelson, chairman of the Annapolis Group and president of St.
John's College (Md.), said members of the organization would discuss the
possibility of taking a collective stand against the rankings at their next
meeting, in June. Although he did not say whether he thought that such an action
was likely, he did detect increasing frustration about the rankings among his
colleagues, he said.

"In a culture where everything is measured, commodified, and quantified, one
gets a little tired of thinking that we ought to play this game, because a
liberal education is not something one can measure," said Mr. Nelson, whose
college has long declined to participate in the U.S. News rankings.

'A Big Step'

That leaders of liberal-arts colleges frown on commercial rankings is nothing
new. But some presidents insisted last week that this time around, their
complaints about U.S. News were more serious, in part because they echoed recent
concerns about the federal government's push for accountability in higher
education.

Katherine Haley Will, president of Gettysburg College and chair-elect of the
Annapolis Group, said the recent report of the federal Commission on the Future
of Higher Education had rekindled suspicions of efforts to quantify all forms of
learning.

Ms. Will believes that U.S. News provides some useful data, including graduation
and retention rates. If the group were to take a collective stand against
rankings, she argued, "it would be incumbent upon us to figure out another way
to help parents and students evaluate colleges."

The anti-rankings letter was circulated by the Education Conservancy, an
Oregon-based nonprofit group that opposes commercial influences in college
admissions. Lloyd Thacker, its director, said he was encouraged by the initial
response to the letter, which urges presidents to work with the group to develop
"better approaches" to evaluate colleges, including measures that would assess
student learning.

Mr. Thacker plans to send the letter -- with signatures from the first group of
presidents -- to the leaders of nearly 600 colleges and universities this
spring.

"This is a big step," he said, "in an experiment to call college presidents to
demonstrate their leadership as trustees of education, to speak beyond
institutional self-interest and to a greater cause."

Representatives of U.S. News have long maintained that the reputational survey
is a meaningful assessment of institutional quality, and that the magazine could
develop alternative ways of compiling it -- perhaps with input from high-school
counselors -- if a large number of college officials stopped participating in
the measure.

Last year about 70 percent of officials of liberal-arts colleges filled out the
magazine's peer-assessment survey, said Robert J. Morse, director of data
research at U.S. News. Although the survey's overall response rate was 58
percent last year, down from 68 percent in 2000, he said the proportion was high
enough to provide a reliable measurement of administrators' opinions of other
colleges.

"The sum of their views provides something valuable," said Mr. Morse. "Some
people don't like it because it's subjective, but it's also true that schools
have an image in the public's mind. That's something that's existed before U.S.
News. To act like that subjective view is irrelevant is ignoring reality."

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2007 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday

BPUT students launch college ranking drive

LENGTH: 525  words

DATELINE: Bhubaneswar


Bhubaneswar, May 13 -- The All Odisha BPUT Students' Association (AOBSA), the
students' body of the Biju Patnaik University of Technology, has launched the
first edition of the Odisha Professional College Ranking -2010. This is a 50-day
programme, which started from Monday and will continue till June 30. The new
initiative will help the Odisha JEE aspirants, feel many parents.

The college ranking will cover nearly 180 professional colleges providing
bachelor degree in Engineering, Pharmacy, Architecture, Hotel Management and
master degree in Engineering, Pharmacy, Business Administration and Computer
Application. And this ranking is open to all constituent and affiliated colleges
of the BPUT.

Through a humble initiative, nearly 90,000 students from 180 colleges will rate
their colleges online on the students' portal of the BPUT www.bputstudents.com.
As the students are the best judges of their own colleges, the ranking is
expected to be fair enough. It's the first of its kind in India where students
of an institute will vote for their college on parameters like industry
exposure, learning and faculty, infrastructure, placement and extra-curricular
activities.

Along with online voting, steps are also being taken for SMS voting. A
registered student of this website can vote for their own college only once. The
student must have his university registration number. The ranking will be
strictly according to students' vote either by SMS or online. Fake registrations
or providing wrong information about self is not accepted. The votes of fake
registration will not be taken into account or will be cancelled. A student is
allowed to open a single account in the website.

Since the formation of the BPUT, no such initiative was taken by the university
authorities to rank the colleges. Even after persistent demands from the
students along with the colleges, it takes nearly eight years to start the
ranking of colleges on the basis of students' feedback. Now, this students'
portal provides ample transparency to make the ranking procedure more
transparent.

The Odisha Professional College Ranking is surely expected to unveil a new
dimension to the 73,587 students who have appeared at the Odisha Joint Entrance
Examination (OJEE) 2010. Parents of the OJEE aspirants will also get an
opportunity to judge the best college for their wards by following this ranking
procedure.

The students' portal has even started a Query Management System (QMS) which will
help students get back answer to their questions. Even a "Write to Vice
Chancellor" has been introduced where students can share their problems and
difficulties with the Vice Chancellor directly.

As the number of professional colleges is increasing at a very fast rate and
unethical procedures through misleading advertisements by the college
authorities are being adopted, this initiative will surely help the students and
parents choose the right college for admission into various courses under the
BPUT, feel experts. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer.
For more information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    The Tribune-Star (Terre Haute, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 20, 2009 Thursday

Rose-Hulman ranked No. 1 by U.S. News & World Report

BYLINE: The Tribune-Star, Terre Haute, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 465 words


Aug. 20--For the 11th consecutive year, Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology has
been ranked the number one college or university that offers the bachelor's or
master's degree as its top degree in engineering, the college announced this
morning.

The ranking is based on a national survey of deans and senior faculty conducted
by U.S. News & World Report for its annual college guidebook.

Individual Rose-Hulman engineering departments once again received No. 1
rankings as well. Those programs are chemical, civil, computer, electrical and
mechanical.

Rose-Hulman tied this year for the top spot with Harvey Mudd College of
Claremont, Calif.

"This ranking affirms the quality of our faculty, staff, students and alumni,"
said Rose-Hulman President Matt Branam in today's release. "While we are pleased
with the ranking and the recognition from our peers, this ranking is not our
guide to achieving our mission of educating the engineering, mathematics and
science leaders of the future. We continue our commitment to being a great
school. Our goal remains to provide the best education that we can design.

We owe it to our students and their families who have put their trust in
Rose-Hulman."

In this year's U.S. News ranking, Rose-Hulman received a 4.5 peer assessment
score on a scale of one to five. Harvey Mudd also received a 4.5, Cooper Union
in New York a 4.3, the United States Military Academy 4.1, and the United States
Naval Academy 4.0.

The overall and specialty rankings are based solely on a spring 2009 peer survey
of deans and senior faculty.

The U.S. News & World Report ranking is just one of the recent accolades
Rose-Hulman has achieved in guides highlighting select colleges.

Rose-Hulman also is in the 2010 version of "The Best 371 Colleges," published by
The Princeton Review, and in the "2010 Fiske Guide to Colleges."

Branam noted that students should look at a variety of factors when selecting a
college, not just the U.S. News & World Report ranking. "This ranking is just
one indicator of what makes a college great," Branam said.

"Students should look at the complete package to make sure a college fits their
needs and aspirations."

Details about the U.S. News & World Report 2010 College Guide's ranking of
specialized undergraduate engineering institutions can be found at http://
colleges.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com/best-colleges/spec-engineering.

To see more of The Tribune-Star or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.tribstar.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, The Tribune-Star, Terre Haute,
Ind. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090820-TX-Rose-Hulman-ranked-No-1-by-U-S-News-World-Report-0820

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TX


                                 Copyright 2009


                              70 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                              April 3, 2017 Monday

NIRF 2017 ranking: Top colleges in India; Delhi University dominates ranking
with 6 colleges

BYLINE: Express Web Desk

LENGTH: 281  words


NIRF 2017 ranking: The National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) rankings
were released on Monday and Miranda House, University of Delhi took the top
place among all colleges in India. Six colleges among the top ten were of Delhi
University. The institution that came in the second position is Loyola College
in Chennai with a score of 68.68.

The Human Resource Development (HRD) ministry introduced the NIRF ranking in
2016 and have added a few more categories to the process this year. The top
colleges category is among the new ones introduced along with the common overall
ranking.

Top 25 colleges in India

1. Miranda House, Delhi

2. Loyola College, Madras

3. Shri Ram College of Commerce, New Delhi

4. Bishop Heber College, Tiruchirapalli

5. Atama Ram Sanatan Dharma College, New Delhi

6. St Xavier's College, Calcutta

7. Lady Shri Ram College for Women, New Delhi

8. Dyal Singh College, New Delhi

9. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College, New Delhi

10. Womens' Christian College, Madras

11. PSG College of Arts & Science, District Coimbatore

12. Madras Christian College, District Kancheepuram

13. Ayya Nadar Janaki Ammal College, District Virudhnagar

14. PSGR Krishnammal College for Women, District Coimbatore

15. Keshav Mahavidyalya, Delhi

16. Ethiraj College for Women, Chennai

17. Christ College (Autonomous), Thrissur

18. Loreto College, Calcutta-16

19. Kongunadu Arts and Science College, District Coimbatore

20. Acharya Narendra Dev College, Kalkaji

21. AU College of Science and Technology, Visakhapatnam

22. Sri Krishna Arts and Science College, Coimbatore

23. AU College of Arts and Commerce, Visakhapatnam

24. Andhra Loyola College, Vijayawada

25. Rajagiri College of Social Sciences, District Ernakulam

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2017 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Herald-Times (Bloomington, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday

IU Bloomington ranked No. 30 for public schools by U.S. News and World Report

BYLINE: MJ Slaby, Herald-Times, Bloomington, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 575 words


Sept. 09--U.S. News and World Report unveiled its 30th annual college rankings
Tuesday, placing Indiana University Bloomington at No. 30 for public schools and
No. 76 overall for 2015.

Ranking colleges -- using a variety of methodologies -- has become common. In
the past two months, IU was named to a list of the top 50 LGBT-friendly colleges
and universities as well as No. 18 in the Forbes best public college rankings.

But it's the popularity of the U.S. News rankings that may increase their
importance, or at least visibility. U.S. News was the first in the country to
make college rankings popular, said Don Hossler, an IU professor of higher
education and director of the IU Center for Postsecondary Research.

"U.S. News is the grandfather of all these rankings," he said.

Yet, both Hossler and IU Spokesman Mark Land warn against the overall importance
of any rankings, saying they are more about reputation than making decisions.

"More than anything, it's validation of what we are already doing," Land said.

Higher education, K-12 news on Passing Notes blog

The U.S. News rankings are mostly used by out-of-state students who are affluent
and doing a national college search, Hossler said. He said international
students may also use rankings more because they've never been to the U.S. and
need to gauge the value of their degree.

Yet, a vast majority of in-state students who come to IU Bloomington didn't do
it because of the U.S. News ranking, and that's the case for most state
institutions with name recognition, Hossler said.

Research shows college rankings are more important internally than externally,
yet it's difficult to use the rankings, he said. Hossler said presidents,
trustees and faculty are watching but changing factors like student/faculty
ratio or SAT average to move up in rankings, can't happen overnight and take
years.

And none of the rankings say how much students learn because there is no
effective way to measure learning, he said.

In the case of U.S. News -- which has data on nearly 1,800 schools -- Land said
the university recognizes those rankings are highly visible, but doesn't use
them beyond recognition.

"We take it for positive recognition of good work from an outside source," Land
said.

A high ranking is useful in marketing for universities because going to college
isn't an experience that can be predicted or tried out, Hossler said.

"You can't kick the tires or try on the shoes," he said. But a number seems more
tangible. Plus, he added that Americans in general have an obsession with being
no. 1, and alumni like to see their school ranked highly.

"No institution is above ignoring any ranking," Hossler said. "Between being no.
1 and no. 230, no one wants to be no. 230."

IU made small moves from the 2014 to 2015 U.S. News rankings -- moving down one
place in best national universities, up one place in public universities and up
two places in undergraduate business programs.

But that could mean very little difference, Hossler warned.

"People tend to zero in on 'What's my number?'" he said. But the difference
between two successive ranks may be very small. So the best thing for students
to do is think about the experience, not the rank or the school, Hossler said.

"What you do when you get there," he said. "That's the biggest takeaway."

___ (c)2014 the Herald-Times (Bloomington, Ind.) Visit the Herald-Times
(Bloomington, Ind.) at www.heraldtimesonline.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20140909-BM-IU-Bloomington-ranked-No-30-for-public-schools-by-U-S-News-and-World
-Report-0909-20140909

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                          Copyright 2014 Herald-Times


                              72 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education

                           September 11, 2011  Sunday

How to Make College Rankings Less Self-Serving

BYLINE: Michael N. Bastedo

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Opinion & Ideas

LENGTH: 1554  words

ABSTRACT

Put the reputational surveys in the hands of those who know the programs best:
the faculty.

FULL TEXT

This week college administrators will parse U.S. News & World Report's annual
college rankings with the careful attention of Talmudic scholars. Institutions
at the top of the rankings will blithely declare the scores unimportant. Those
even a few places below will say their placements do not recognize their
institution's unique form of excellence. Faculty and administrators everywhere
will decry U.S. News's influence.

Every spring, presidents, provosts, and admissions deans receive a survey from
the magazine, asking them to rate all the institutions in their category from 1
(marginal) to 5 (distinguished). About half will respond-a percentage that has
declined nearly every year. Then the scores are averaged and reported on the 1
to 5 scale. The reputation scores are one part of the rankings, along with other
factors like graduation rates. A similar process is used for rating graduate
schools.

It's not difficult to see the problems with the reputation scores. U.S. News
claims that the scores allow it "to account for intangibles at peer institutions
such as faculty dedication to teaching." But college leaders do not spend all
that much time on other campuses, certainly not enough to know about faculty
dedication to anything, much less classroom teaching. Even the idea of an
overall average of quality is a fool's game because most institutions vary a
great deal across departments and colleges.

There is also a clear conflict of interest here: College leaders are being asked
to evaluate their competitors, and suspicious cases have been revealed. A copy
of the University of Florida president J. Bernard Machen's survey, obtained by
The Gainesville Sun in 2009, showed that he had rated his university equivalent
to Harvard, Princeton, and Yale Universities, and none of the other Florida
public universities even made it into the second category ("strong").

Catherine Watt, the former director of institutional research at Clemson
University, reportedly said at an Association for Institutional Research
conference in 2009 that Clemson sought to engineer nearly every statistic used
by U.S. News to rate colleges, including the reputation survey. Administrators
were told, she was widely quoted as saying, to rank all institutions lower than
their own. President James F. Barker rated his (and only his) university as
"strong," above such institutions as Stanford and Princeton.

Unfortunately, it is impossible to tell how common such cases are, because U.S.
News refuses to provide even redacted files of the results of its reputational
surveys. But considering the pressure placed on college presidents by trustees
and alumni, the cases cited are not altogether surprising.

An additional problem is simply human psychology. Rankings inevitably influence
what we think about individual institutions, since our understanding of the
quality of those colleges-except the ones we know well-is often highly
ambiguous.

To test that idea, I conducted two studies with Nicholas A. Bowman, an assistant
professor of higher education at Bowling Green State University. In the first
study, we gleaned all the U.S. News published data on colleges from 1989 to
2006, including the composite reputation scores. We wanted to see if people
filling out the reputation survey were influenced by previous reputation scores
and rankings. We found no evidence that reputation scores had any influence on
future rankings-but previous rankings did. Thus, over time, the reputation score
moved closer and closer to the overall ranking, making ranking and reputation
scores less and less independent. Rankings became reputations.

We also looked at data from the World University Rankings collected by
London-based Times Higher Education. Before those rankings were first published
in 2004, even higher-education experts had trouble comparing the quality of
Sweden's Lund University with National Taiwan University, two universities in
the current top 100. We hypothesized that, over time, there would be a
convergence between the ranking of each university and the reputation score it
received from the Times raters. And indeed, we found the same effect we found in
the U.S. News rankings.

That is a big problem for college rankings. Reputation surveys are supposed to
provide an independent indicator of quality that goes beyond measures of class
size or alumni donations. But, given time, rankings are determining a college's
reputation.

Many have argued that reputation surveys should be eliminated entirely, and that
is reasonable from a purely academic perspective. The success of rankings around
the world, however, has shown that there is a strong market for reputational
assessments of higher education, just as there is for assessments of
restaurants, movies, auto dealers, and just about every organization in society.

There is also reason to believe that rankings without reputation scores could be
harmful. It's all in how people use them. The international rankings from
Shanghai Jiao Tong University in China have no reputation component. Instead,
they look primarily at citation counts in science, and Nobel Prize and Fields
Medal winners. That leads to a clear strategy for moving up the rankings: Focus
more on science, and hire award winners. Indeed, a Taiwanese Web site will
simulate how far a university will move up the rankings with each Nobel Prize
winner hired. But there is no evidence that hiring prize winners leads to
improvements in overall quality; conversely, the resources dedicated to doing so
could detract from spending on more effective practices.

I propose a partial solution that would greatly improve the value of the
reputation survey. Each year, U.S. News produces rankings of graduate schools
that also rely in part on a reputation survey of graduate deans and directors of
graduate studies. But for each graduate school, the magazine publishes rankings
of specialty programs (say, mechanical engineering or African-American
literature) that are based entirely on the number of nominations a program
receives from the deans of other schools-essentially a contest of who receives
the most votes. The top 10 or so programs in each field are listed.

The ratings of program reputation are more likely to be accurate than ratings of
university reputation. Why? Directors of graduate studies and deans spend time
examining the differences among academic programs at a detailed level, often
knowing specific information about the research of individual faculty members,
movement among programs, and curricular requirements and strengths. These
professors and deans interact with each other on an annual basis, or, even more
often, at academic conferences and workshops. They seek to hire and recruit the
best scholars at each other's institutions.

Their survey responses could be systematically averaged to provide a reputation
score for each institution. If the system works well, it could be expanded to
national liberal-arts colleges and other segments. And it is entirely
doable-similar to the direction taken by Times Higher Education. Its reputation
survey was distributed in 2010 to tens of thousands of researchers around the
world, was offered in eight different languages, and allowed respondents to
select from hundreds of disciplines and more than 6,000 academic institutions.

A faculty-driven reputation score would mitigate against the "rankings becoming
reputation" problem that our research has identified. That difficulty occurs
most often when respondents lack detailed information about the institutions
they are evaluating. When people have good information and closely monitor
changes, they are more likely to produce accurate estimates. That is not to say
those people are no longer biased; bias is human. But accuracy could be far
improved over the current system.

There are still problems to be resolved. Deans and graduate faculty are not
likely to have deep knowledge of program areas outside their spe­cialties. It
would be more effective to survey department chairs in every discipline, and
even better to survey randomly selected faculty in each department, questioning
different faculty each year. The "most votes" system for ranking departments
would need to be changed, so that all programs were rated by the faculty in
their category. In addition, survey manipulation remains a concern, as faculty
may benefit if their department is highly ranked. First, U.S. News should simply
prohibit administrators and faculty from rating their own programs or those of
their alma maters. It should also be more open, providing its data files for
systematic analysis to outside researchers willing to sign confidentiality
agreements.

It is safe to say, however, that randomly selected faculty members are less
likely to game the system than college presidents are. At least my proposal
would be a first step toward reform: It would take evaluations out of the highly
biased (and fairly unknowing) hands of administrators and hand them to the
people who actually know comparable colleges best-the faculty.

As a means to assess college quality, rankings will remain an imperfect system.
But it's time to get presidents and provosts out of the business of rating their
own competitors.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gwenda Kaczor for The Chronicle
How to Make College Rankings Less Self-Serving 1

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education
                               www.chronicle.com

                            August 29, 2014  Friday

How Economically Diverse Is Your College? A 'New York Times' Ranking May Soon
Tell

BYLINE: Goldie Blumenstyk

SECTION: STUDENTS; Administration

LENGTH: 1136  words

ABSTRACT

The newspaper's new project isn't trying to pick the best colleges. It's more
interested in how well they attract underprivileged students.

FULL TEXT

The New York Times is entering the college-ratings game. Sorta. Kinda.

Next month it plans to unveil "a new ranking of colleges and universities based
on their ability to attract underprivileged kids." Or at least that's how the
project is billed on the agenda for the Schools for Tomorrow conference that the
newspaper is holding next week in New York City.

That the Times is getting into ratings is notable. And it is doing so in a way
that is likely to please many opponents of the popular rankings by U.S. News &
World Report (due out the day after the Times is scheduled to unveil its new
project). Critics of the U.S. News rankings argue that they contribute to a lack
of socioeconomic diversity, by creating incentives for colleges to spend on
things like bigger faculty salaries and smaller class sizes, rather than student
aid for financially needy students.

"Having The New York Times shine light on the fact that an institution has very
little economic diversity could have a powerful shaming effect" and be "an
important counterweight," said Richard D. Kahlenberg, a senior fellow at the
Century Foundation and a proponent of class-based affirmative action. "Right
now," he added, "it's easier to hide."

But the extent of that shaming effect is hard to predict. For one thing, the
Times project may not be the kind of consumer-focused ranking that is familiar
to readers of U.S. News, the New York Times Company's promotional language
notwithstanding. That puts the Times's project more in the vein of the
Washington Monthly's College Guide, which focuses on how much colleges
contribute to their students and the country.

A 'Targeted' Approach

The Times's rankings come from "The Upshot," the data-focused "explainer" unit
begun in April and edited by David Leonhardt. "Our project is much more of an
analysis than it is any attempt at a comprehensive ranking," Mr. Leonhardt said
in an email message to The Chronicle this week. "We're in no way trying to
compete with the various 'best school' rankings out there."

The rankings by U.S. News or the Washington Monthly, and even the college-rating
system now being developed by the Obama administration, "are all attempts at
some kind of comprehensive overview," Mr. Leonhardt said in a follow-up
interview on Thursday. What The Upshot plans to unveil, starting with the
findings being released at the September conference, is a "a more targeted
look," based on particular slices of data. "We're not trying to do a
comprehensive, throw-everything-in look at colleges."

For all the many college guides and news outlets covering higher education, Mr.
Leonhardt contends that the topic is still worthy of more attention. "There's a
dearth of certain kinds of information," he said. "What strikes me is how little
even well-informed people know about college."

And for those who have followed Mr. Leonhardt's career-he was previously a Times
columnist writing about economics-the focus on socioeconomic diversity should
come as no surprise. "That's a topic I think is extremely important" to matters
of economic mobility and equality, he said.

He declined, politely, to share more about the scope of "rankings" until their
release.

Mr. Leonhardt said he hopes the information that The Upshot produces will inform
both policy makers and families.

But some experts wonder how influential those rankings will actually be with
consumers. For example, the Washington Monthly's guide, whose latest edition
came out this week, is noted for things like its evaluation of colleges on
social mobility and how colleges' actual graduation rates compare with their
expected graduation rates (the latter are based on the academic profile of a
college's student body).

Such analyses-attempting to measure what a college contributes to its students,
as opposed to measures based on a college's spending or its selectivity-are
"valuable as a matter of public policy, but I'm not sure students care about
that," said Ben Wildavsky, director of higher-education studies at the State
University of New York's Rockefeller Institute of Government and a policy
professor at SUNY-Albany. He also used to oversee college guides at U.S. News.

And realistically, Mr. Wildavsky added, for some families, the information might
even be a turn-off. Parents might want to send their kids to a college where
there are already a lot of well-prepared students, "even though there's not a
lot of value added."

Limited Audience

Paul Glastris, editor of the Washington Monthly, said that as much as he and his
editors would love to have more prospective college students and their families
as readers, they recognize reality. "Not too many people use our ratings to
decide which college to go to," he said. "We're definitely more geared toward
policy makers."

The magazine started its rankings in 2005. "At first it was a quirky, cheeky
alternative to U.S. News," he said, but over time the magazine has added more
and more components to help readers see how well their tax dollars, as well as
the tax benefits that flow to colleges, are being used.

Mr. Glastris is also one of several people who noted that the Times's readership
(and often its lifestyle coverage) skews toward the affluent. "That's all the
more reason they should be applauded for it," he said.

The Times's ratings are unlikely to upend the dominance of U.S. News, said
Robert Kelchen, an assistant professor of education, leadership, management, and
policy at Seton Hall University who helped develop some of the Washington
Monthly's ratings and has advised the Obama administration in the development of
its rating system. (The influence of the U.S. News rankings were further
demonstrated this week, in a Boston magazine article detailing Northeastern
University's successful 17-year campaign to crack its top-100 list.)

But the ratings by the Times could be a boon to some "striver colleges," he
said. "Putting The New York Times's seal of approval on it could really have
meaning, especially for less-selective, lesser-known colleges."

Catharine Bond Hill, president of Vassar College-a more-selective institution
that has made socioeconomic diversity a high priority, with about a quarter of
its students qualifying for Pell Grants-said she sees greater promise in the
ratings. It could influence policy makers, and "it might have an impact on
lower-income families that are looking for schools that might be affordable to
them," she said.

But that's only part of the equation, said Ms. Hill, who will be speaking at the
conference next week. "It's not just an information issue," she added. To serve
more lower-income students, "schools would have to allocate significantly more
resources."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "Our project is much more of an analysis than it is any attempt at a
comprehensive ranking," says David Leonhardt, who heads The Upshot, the 'Times'
division that will produce the new ratings.
Stephen Voss/Redux
How Economically Diverse Is Your College? 'The New York Times' May Soon Tell 1

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education
                               www.chronicle.com

                            August 29, 2014  Friday

How Economically Diverse Is Your College? A 'New York Times' Ranking May Soon
Tell

BYLINE: Goldie Blumenstyk

SECTION: STUDENTS; Administration

LENGTH: 1136  words

ABSTRACT

The newspaper's new project isn't trying to pick the best colleges. It's more
interested in how well they attract underprivileged students.

FULL TEXT

The New York Times is entering the college-ratings game. Sorta. Kinda.

Next month it plans to unveil "a new ranking of colleges and universities based
on their ability to attract underprivileged kids." Or at least that's how the
project is billed on the agenda for the Schools for Tomorrow conference that the
newspaper is holding next week in New York City.

That the Times is getting into ratings is notable. And it is doing so in a way
that is likely to please many opponents of the popular rankings by U.S. News &
World Report (due out the day after the Times is scheduled to unveil its new
project). Critics of the U.S. News rankings argue that they contribute to a lack
of socioeconomic diversity, by creating incentives for colleges to spend on
things like bigger faculty salaries and smaller class sizes, rather than student
aid for financially needy students.

"Having The New York Times shine light on the fact that an institution has very
little economic diversity could have a powerful shaming effect" and be "an
important counterweight," said Richard D. Kahlenberg, a senior fellow at the
Century Foundation and a proponent of class-based affirmative action. "Right
now," he added, "it's easier to hide."

But the extent of that shaming effect is hard to predict. For one thing, the
Times project may not be the kind of consumer-focused ranking that is familiar
to readers of U.S. News, the New York Times Company's promotional language
notwithstanding. That puts the Times's project more in the vein of the
Washington Monthly's College Guide, which focuses on how much colleges
contribute to their students and the country.

A 'Targeted' Approach

The Times's rankings come from "The Upshot," the data-focused "explainer" unit
begun in April and edited by David Leonhardt. "Our project is much more of an
analysis than it is any attempt at a comprehensive ranking," Mr. Leonhardt said
in an email message to The Chronicle this week. "We're in no way trying to
compete with the various 'best school' rankings out there."

The rankings by U.S. News or the Washington Monthly, and even the college-rating
system now being developed by the Obama administration, "are all attempts at
some kind of comprehensive overview," Mr. Leonhardt said in a follow-up
interview on Thursday. What The Upshot plans to unveil, starting with the
findings being released at the September conference, is a "a more targeted
look," based on particular slices of data. "We're not trying to do a
comprehensive, throw-everything-in look at colleges."

For all the many college guides and news outlets covering higher education, Mr.
Leonhardt contends that the topic is still worthy of more attention. "There's a
dearth of certain kinds of information," he said. "What strikes me is how little
even well-informed people know about college."

And for those who have followed Mr. Leonhardt's career-he was previously a Times
columnist writing about economics-the focus on socioeconomic diversity should
come as no surprise. "That's a topic I think is extremely important" to matters
of economic mobility and equality, he said.

He declined, politely, to share more about the scope of "rankings" until their
release.

Mr. Leonhardt said he hopes the information that The Upshot produces will inform
both policy makers and families.

But some experts wonder how influential those rankings will actually be with
consumers. For example, the Washington Monthly's guide, whose latest edition
came out this week, is noted for things like its evaluation of colleges on
social mobility and how colleges' actual graduation rates compare with their
expected graduation rates (the latter are based on the academic profile of a
college's student body).

Such analyses-attempting to measure what a college contributes to its students,
as opposed to measures based on a college's spending or its selectivity-are
"valuable as a matter of public policy, but I'm not sure students care about
that," said Ben Wildavsky, director of higher-education studies at the State
University of New York's Rockefeller Institute of Government and a policy
professor at SUNY-Albany. He also used to oversee college guides at U.S. News.

And realistically, Mr. Wildavsky added, for some families, the information might
even be a turn-off. Parents might want to send their kids to a college where
there are already a lot of well-prepared students, "even though there's not a
lot of value added."

Limited Audience

Paul Glastris, editor of the Washington Monthly, said that as much as he and his
editors would love to have more prospective college students and their families
as readers, they recognize reality. "Not too many people use our ratings to
decide which college to go to," he said. "We're definitely more geared toward
policy makers."

The magazine started its rankings in 2005. "At first it was a quirky, cheeky
alternative to U.S. News," he said, but over time the magazine has added more
and more components to help readers see how well their tax dollars, as well as
the tax benefits that flow to colleges, are being used.

Mr. Glastris is also one of several people who noted that the Times's readership
(and often its lifestyle coverage) skews toward the affluent. "That's all the
more reason they should be applauded for it," he said.

The Times's ratings are unlikely to upend the dominance of U.S. News, said
Robert Kelchen, an assistant professor of education, leadership, management, and
policy at Seton Hall University who helped develop some of the Washington
Monthly's ratings and has advised the Obama administration in the development of
its rating system. (The influence of the U.S. News rankings were further
demonstrated this week, in a Boston magazine article detailing Northeastern
University's successful 17-year campaign to crack its top-100 list.)

But the ratings by the Times could be a boon to some "striver colleges," he
said. "Putting The New York Times's seal of approval on it could really have
meaning, especially for less-selective, lesser-known colleges."

Catharine Bond Hill, president of Vassar College-a more-selective institution
that has made socioeconomic diversity a high priority, with about a quarter of
its students qualifying for Pell Grants-said she sees greater promise in the
ratings. It could influence policy makers, and "it might have an impact on
lower-income families that are looking for schools that might be affordable to
them," she said.

But that's only part of the equation, said Ms. Hill, who will be speaking at the
conference next week. "It's not just an information issue," she added. To serve
more lower-income students, "schools would have to allocate significantly more
resources."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "Our project is much more of an analysis than it is any attempt at a
comprehensive ranking," says David Leonhardt, who heads The Upshot, the 'Times'
division that will produce the new ratings.
Stephen Voss/Redux
How Economically Diverse Is Your College? 'The New York Times' May Soon Tell 1

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                           The Ledger (Lakeland, FL)

                           September 19, 2004, Sunday
                               Correction Appended

TWO POLK COLLEGES RISE IN RANKINGS; SOUTHEASTERN MAKES MAGAZINE'S LIST FOR FIRST
TIME.

BYLINE: JULIA CROUSE The Ledger

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 733 words


LAKELAND -- Two of Polk County's colleges moved up in U.S. News & World Report's
annual rankings of colleges and universities.

Warner Southern College boosted its ranking by one level, and Southeastern
College was added to the list for the first time.

Florida Southern College held steady in the top 10 of its category.

The 2005 edition of the magazine's America's Best Colleges issue hit newsstands
recently.

The magazine categorizes schools by the most advanced degree each offers and by
geographic region. The rankings are decided by a range of factors, including
peer assessment, graduation and retention rates, student/faculty ratio and
financial resources.

For a second year in a row, Harvard and Princeton universities shared the No. 1
spot, with Yale University in third place.

At No. 48, the University of Florida was the only state school to break into the
top category of the 50 Best National Universities that offer a doctorate. The
University of Miami dropped two slots to No. 60 and Florida State University
dipped by one to the 112th position.

The University of California-Berkeley was rated the best public national
university, followed by the University of Michigan and the University of
Virginia, sharing the No. 2 spot. UF ranked as the 16th best public university.

The rankings are often contested as arbitrary and not indicative of educational
value. But schools continue to vie for higher status because the magazine is
widely read.

Florida Southern was ranked ninth among southern schools in the Best
Comprehensive Colleges-Bachelor's category.

At 57 percent, the school had one of the highest graduation rates in the south
in the same category.

The category is subdivided into regional areas.

FSC President Anne Kerr said she is pleased with Florida Southern's top-10
status, mainly because of the exposure the rankings give the school.

One of Kerr's presidential goals is to increase FSC's visibility on the national
level.

The rankings help to showcase the school.

But she urges caution when considering the rankings.

"The criteria in some cases is very arbitrary," she said.

"(The rankings) are not a valid indicator of quality."

FSC's peer, Rollins College in Winter Park, again finished second in the south's
Best Universities-Master's category.

Southeastern College participated in the ranking system for the first time this
year.

It was listed in the fourth tier -- the lowest tier in the magazine's listings
-- of Best Comprehensive Colleges-Bachelor's in the south.

Warner Southern College moved up to the third tier in the same geogrpahical
grouping. Last year, the Lake Wales school ranked in the fourth tier.

Like FSC, Southeastern hopes that the rankings will bring the college national
recognition, said Rosemary Rutland, spokeswoman for the Lakeland school.

Southeastern has made a mission to make itself more visible and is seeking
university status. For the first time this year, its enrollment surpassed
Florida Southern's.

Rutland said there will always be controversy surrounding ranking or award
systems, whether it's America's Best Colleges or the Nobel Peace Prize.

"The important thing is to do your personal best and maintain standards of
excellence," she said. "The cream will rise to the top."

Julia Crouse can be reached at julia.crouse@theledger.com or 863-802-7536.

FLORIDA RANKINGS

U.S. News & World Report Best Colleges Issue

Best National Universities-Doctoral:

The University of Florida ranked 48th. (UF was No. 16 in the top 50 public
National Universities-Doctoral.)

University of Miami ranked 60.

Florida State University, 112.

The University of South Florida and the University of Central Florida ranked in
the third and fourth tier, respectively.

Best Comprehensive Colleges-Bachelor's (by region):

Florida Southern College ranked 9th in the South. FSC also was praised for
maintaining a high graduation rate of 57 percent.

Warner Southern College was listed in the third tier.

Southeastern College, fourth tier.

Best Universities-Master's (by region):

Rollins College in Winter Park ranked No. 2 in the South for a second year.

University of Tampa, 40.

Barry University, 48.

University of North Florida, 55.

University of West Florida 59.

Florida A&M University and Florida Gulf Coast University were listed in the
third tier.


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 21, 2004

CORRECTION:

A story and graphic on pages B1 and B2 on Sunday switched the 2005 and 2004
placement for three Florida colleges in U.S. News & World Report's annual
college rankings.

For 2005, the University of Florida dropped two slots to 50th place in the top
category of the 50 Best National Universities that offer a doctorate. The
University of Miami moved up two slots to No. 58, and Florida State University
rose by one to the 111th.

GRAPHIC: SCOTT WHEELER/The Ledger: Florida Southern College students walk along
the esplanades on campus Friday in Lakeland. Florida Southern ranked ninth in
the South and was praised for a graduation rate of 57 percent.; SCOTT
WHEELER/The Ledger: Florida Southern held steady in the top 10 of its category
in U.S. News & World Report's annual rankings of colleges and universities.

             Copyright 2004 Lakeland Ledger Publishing Corporation


                              76 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 10, 2016 Saturday

USA Today and College Factual recognize several Elon academic programs among the
nationâ[#x20ac][TM]s best in 2017 college ranking

LENGTH: 304  words

DATELINE: New York



 Raleigh: Elon College has issued the following news release:
 USA Today and College Factual recognize Elon University in the top tier of the
nation's colleges and universities in the 2017 college rankings, which were
released Sept. 8. Four Elon academic programs were ranked in the top 5 percent
in the nation, with 16 ranked in the top 10 percent and 13 in the top 15
percent. Overall, Elon is ranked in the top 11 percent of colleges and
universities nationwide, and receives recognition for overall value.





 Elon's academic programs receiving the highest rankings in the survey, placing
in the top 5 percent nationwide, include the following:
 The USA Today/College Factual rankings are based on 11 factors of quality. The
rankings do not involve any subjective data and schools are not grouped into
categories. The rankings attempt to measure the quality of academic programs and
majors, comparing schools in a variety of fields.
 In addition to Elon, the other top-five schools in North Carolina are Duke
University, Wake Forest University, Davidson College and the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill.



 Elon's overall national ranking of #154 out of 1,387 schools is based on test
scores of incoming students, high freshman retention rate and graduation rates,
educational and faculty resources, starting salary of graduates, and a low
default rate on student loans.



 College Factual provides proprietary college content and insights, college
rankings and an array of college-comparison and decision-making tools to help
students find their best-fit college. In 2016, the company was chosen to be the
data provider for the USA Today College Guide, which is read by more than
100,000 U.S. families.
 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)

                             August 27, 2010 Friday

Ranking guides can be blessing and curse for Md. colleges

BYLINE: Barbara Pash

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 712  words


William Conely calls it the "swimsuit issue" of U.S. News & World Report. Heidi
Roller describes a love/hate relationship. Roger Casey sees them as a marketing
tool.

All three are talking about guides that rank and rate colleges and universities.
They and others in higher education question the accuracy and subjectivity of
the rankings while also seeing them as "a good resource," a handy tool for
parents and students engaged in a bit of high-stakes, potentially
career-defining comparison shopping.

"Many colleges would love to do away with them but it's consumer-driven," said
Roller, the vice president for enrollment management at the College of Notre
Dame, of the slew of guides - the most influential being U.S. News & World
Report's.

A few years ago, some institutions declined to participate in that guide,
questioning the accuracy of the rankings and its subjectivity.

"We don't feel that's a fight we want to take on," said Conely, dean of
enrollment and academic services at Johns Hopkins University. He urges parents
and students, as do others, to use the guides appropriately.

"They're a good resource" for statistical information, he said. "Our job as
college professionals is to tell people to put [the guides] in context, not as a
single source. "

Bob Herr, assistant vice president for enrollment management at Stevenson
University, finds peer review guides can help by providing information about
student life and campus culture. More useful for families are the ancillary
rankings that compare college costs and educational opportunities.

"They show that a lot of schools do a great job educating students and they
don't cost $50,000" annually, said Herr. "They raise questions parents should be
asking, such as return on the investment, the graduation rate. "

From the colleges' standpoint, rankings can be beneficial and also detrimental,
according to Herr. If the school ranks high, it's a benefit. If not, the school
may feel it's a detriment.

"There's been a lot of pushback against the rankings in recent years, and a lot
of it from the colleges themselves," said Herr, noting that a national study is
under way on the rankings' influence and methodology.

Whatever the outcome, experts agree that the guides have an impact on students
and parents. But exactly how much is debatable.

Elliot Hirshman, provost at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, partly
attributes a 10 percent increase in applications this year to its top ranking in
the U.S. News & World Report's "up and coming national universities" category.

Salisbury University also had a record-high number of applications this year.
But Ellen Neufeldt, vice president of student affairs, isn't willing to credit
the rankings, which classify Salisbury as a "best value. "

"It has attracted attention," she said, "but it's one factor. The ratings
reflect our educational quality. "

As president of McDaniel College, Roger Casey said he rarely encounters students
and parents who chose the Westminster private college because of its ranking.
Instead, the ranking spurs them to give the college a closer look.

"The drawback to the ratings is that they're based on input, not output," he
said. "They measure who's going to a college, not what happens to the students.
"

Roller, at the College of Notre Dame, echoes that point. It's difficult to put
the 1,500 colleges and universities in the country on the same scale.

"What may be best for one student isn't good for another," she said. "The
rankings sometimes can outweigh prestige. "

Roller is not the only expert to mention the prestige problem. Hopkins' Conely
contends that the ranking of national research universities rarely changes.
Hopkins ranks 13th in the U.S. News guide list of national universities.

"When you put in the big boppers, there are no surprises [in the listings]. The
positions shift a little here and there but it's a pretty static ranking. It
reinforces their image because they're always the top schools," he said.

Rather than "global rankings," as he puts it, UMBC's Hirshman prefers
more-specific rankings that focus on undergraduate teaching and research and
internship opportunities. These give a better picture of a school.

"Often the substance of the educational program and the rankings move together,"
said Hirshman.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday

US News college rankings: Princeton holds on to top spot. Is it really No. 1?;
College rankings have become a popular game. But US News, which has been
publishing its rankings for 30 years now, remains both the most well known and
the most controversial.

BYLINE: Amanda Paulson Staff writer

SECTION: USA

LENGTH: 767 words


Princeton fans can breathe a sigh of relief: For the second year in a row, that
school came out on top in the US News & World Report rankings, ahead of Harvard
and Yale.

For national liberal arts colleges, Williams College in Williamstown, Mass.,
also held onto its No. 1 spot from last year, with Amherst and Swarthmore close
behind.

In fact, as with most years, there was very little movement in the rankings,
which are determined based on graduation and retention rates, assessment of
excellence (largely determined by peer surveys), faculty resources, selectivity,
financial resources, how well graduation rates match up with what is predicted,
and alumni giving.

The top 10 national universities were the same as last year, with just a few
shifting place, with the small exception of Dartmouth College, which dropped
from a tie for 10th place to 11th place in this year's rankings.

College rankings have become a popular game, with numerous other publications
issuing their own - some of them based more on concrete outcomes or
affordability than the US News ones. Even the federal government plans to get
into the college ratings business (though they emphasize the distinction between
"ratings" and "rankings"), based largely on access and affordability. But US
News, which has been publishing its rankings for 30 years now, remains both the
most well known and the most controversial.

In recent years, as the problems of rising college costs and student debt have
risen to the forefront, the US News rankings are frequently cited as part of the
problem.

At best, say critics, they're of little use, giving students and their families
almost no real information about value or outcomes, and just reinforcing
previously cemented reputations. At worst, they say, they contribute to the
spiraling costs of college, encouraging schools to spend money in unnecessary
and inefficient ways on fancy buildings and amenities, in hopes of raising their
prestige and inching up in the rankings.

They can also encourage schools to increase the average SAT scores of their
student body by offering hefty "merit aid" packages to certain students,
regardless of students' financial need.

In a New Yorker essay on the topic, "What College Rankings Really Tell Us,"
Malcolm Gladwell explored how arbitrary and self-reinforcing the rankings
become, given the nearly impossible task of rating totally different
institutions with a single score.

"A single score allows us to judge between entities (like Yeshiva and Penn
State) that otherwise would be impossible to compare. At no point, however, do
the college guides acknowledge the extraordinary difficulty of the task they
have set themselves," Gladwell wrote. "The Penn State campus at University Park
is a complex institution with dozens of schools and departments, four thousand
faculty members, and forty-five thousand students. How on earth does anyone
propose to assign a number to something like that?"

But, despite all the criticism they generate, parsing the US News rankings has
become a rite of passage for many in the higher-ed community, and colleges are
eager for even small movement - so long as it's in the right direction.

This year, Northeastern University and University of California in Irvine made
the biggest jumps in the national university category, both rising seven places,
to a five-way tie at No. 42. Pennsylvania State University in University Park,
meanwhile, fell seven places.

Some of the more interesting rankings are in the lesser-known lists that US News
publishes. University of Maryland in Baltimore County, Arizona State University
in Tempe, and the University of Central Florida topped the list of
"up-and-comers," those universities most often cited by college administrators
asked to nominate schools that have made the most promising and innovative
changes. And Rutgers, Andrews University, and Stanford offer the most ethnic
diversity of national universities.

A list of "A-plus schools for B students" highlights less-selective schools. And
US News has created its own list of "best value" schools - a trend among many
other college-ranking publications - though the results don't look all that
different from the main lists. Harvard, Princeton, and Yale are still the top
three national universities, though the University of Chicago and Duke
University drop out of the top 10 on the "value" list.

For the first time this year, US News is also publishing data on the school
profile pages about each school's three-year federal loan default rate - a
measure of graduates' ability to repay their loans - and their safety
statistics.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday

US News college rankings: Princeton holds on to top spot. Is it really No. 1?;
College rankings have become a popular game. But US News, which has been
publishing its rankings for 30 years now, remains both the most well known and
the most controversial.

BYLINE: Amanda Paulson Staff writer

SECTION: USA

LENGTH: 767 words


Princeton fans can breathe a sigh of relief: For the second year in a row, that
school came out on top in the US News & World Report rankings, ahead of Harvard
and Yale.

For national liberal arts colleges, Williams College in Williamstown, Mass.,
also held onto its No. 1 spot from last year, with Amherst and Swarthmore close
behind.

In fact, as with most years, there was very little movement in the rankings,
which are determined based on graduation and retention rates, assessment of
excellence (largely determined by peer surveys), faculty resources, selectivity,
financial resources, how well graduation rates match up with what is predicted,
and alumni giving.

The top 10 national universities were the same as last year, with just a few
shifting place, with the small exception of Dartmouth College, which dropped
from a tie for 10th place to 11th place in this year's rankings.

College rankings have become a popular game, with numerous other publications
issuing their own - some of them based more on concrete outcomes or
affordability than the US News ones. Even the federal government plans to get
into the college ratings business (though they emphasize the distinction between
"ratings" and "rankings"), based largely on access and affordability. But US
News, which has been publishing its rankings for 30 years now, remains both the
most well known and the most controversial.

In recent years, as the problems of rising college costs and student debt have
risen to the forefront, the US News rankings are frequently cited as part of the
problem.

At best, say critics, they're of little use, giving students and their families
almost no real information about value or outcomes, and just reinforcing
previously cemented reputations. At worst, they say, they contribute to the
spiraling costs of college, encouraging schools to spend money in unnecessary
and inefficient ways on fancy buildings and amenities, in hopes of raising their
prestige and inching up in the rankings.

They can also encourage schools to increase the average SAT scores of their
student body by offering hefty "merit aid" packages to certain students,
regardless of students' financial need.

In a New Yorker essay on the topic, "What College Rankings Really Tell Us,"
Malcolm Gladwell explored how arbitrary and self-reinforcing the rankings
become, given the nearly impossible task of rating totally different
institutions with a single score.

"A single score allows us to judge between entities (like Yeshiva and Penn
State) that otherwise would be impossible to compare. At no point, however, do
the college guides acknowledge the extraordinary difficulty of the task they
have set themselves," Gladwell wrote. "The Penn State campus at University Park
is a complex institution with dozens of schools and departments, four thousand
faculty members, and forty-five thousand students. How on earth does anyone
propose to assign a number to something like that?"

But, despite all the criticism they generate, parsing the US News rankings has
become a rite of passage for many in the higher-ed community, and colleges are
eager for even small movement - so long as it's in the right direction.

This year, Northeastern University and University of California in Irvine made
the biggest jumps in the national university category, both rising seven places,
to a five-way tie at No. 42. Pennsylvania State University in University Park,
meanwhile, fell seven places.

Some of the more interesting rankings are in the lesser-known lists that US News
publishes. University of Maryland in Baltimore County, Arizona State University
in Tempe, and the University of Central Florida topped the list of
"up-and-comers," those universities most often cited by college administrators
asked to nominate schools that have made the most promising and innovative
changes. And Rutgers, Andrews University, and Stanford offer the most ethnic
diversity of national universities.

A list of "A-plus schools for B students" highlights less-selective schools. And
US News has created its own list of "best value" schools - a trend among many
other college-ranking publications - though the results don't look all that
different from the main lists. Harvard, Princeton, and Yale are still the top
three national universities, though the University of Chicago and Duke
University drop out of the top 10 on the "value" list.

For the first time this year, US News is also publishing data on the school
profile pages about each school's three-year federal loan default rate - a
measure of graduates' ability to repay their loans - and their safety
statistics.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday

US News college rankings: Princeton holds on to top spot. Is it really No. 1?;
College rankings have become a popular game. But US News, which has been
publishing its rankings for 30 years now, remains both the most well known and
the most controversial.

BYLINE: Amanda Paulson Staff writer

SECTION: USA

LENGTH: 767 words


Princeton fans can breathe a sigh of relief: For the second year in a row, that
school came out on top in the US News & World Report rankings, ahead of Harvard
and Yale.

For national liberal arts colleges, Williams College in Williamstown, Mass.,
also held onto its No. 1 spot from last year, with Amherst and Swarthmore close
behind.

In fact, as with most years, there was very little movement in the rankings,
which are determined based on graduation and retention rates, assessment of
excellence (largely determined by peer surveys), faculty resources, selectivity,
financial resources, how well graduation rates match up with what is predicted,
and alumni giving.

The top 10 national universities were the same as last year, with just a few
shifting place, with the small exception of Dartmouth College, which dropped
from a tie for 10th place to 11th place in this year's rankings.

College rankings have become a popular game, with numerous other publications
issuing their own - some of them based more on concrete outcomes or
affordability than the US News ones. Even the federal government plans to get
into the college ratings business (though they emphasize the distinction between
"ratings" and "rankings"), based largely on access and affordability. But US
News, which has been publishing its rankings for 30 years now, remains both the
most well known and the most controversial.

In recent years, as the problems of rising college costs and student debt have
risen to the forefront, the US News rankings are frequently cited as part of the
problem.

At best, say critics, they're of little use, giving students and their families
almost no real information about value or outcomes, and just reinforcing
previously cemented reputations. At worst, they say, they contribute to the
spiraling costs of college, encouraging schools to spend money in unnecessary
and inefficient ways on fancy buildings and amenities, in hopes of raising their
prestige and inching up in the rankings.

They can also encourage schools to increase the average SAT scores of their
student body by offering hefty "merit aid" packages to certain students,
regardless of students' financial need.

In a New Yorker essay on the topic, "What College Rankings Really Tell Us,"
Malcolm Gladwell explored how arbitrary and self-reinforcing the rankings
become, given the nearly impossible task of rating totally different
institutions with a single score.

"A single score allows us to judge between entities (like Yeshiva and Penn
State) that otherwise would be impossible to compare. At no point, however, do
the college guides acknowledge the extraordinary difficulty of the task they
have set themselves," Gladwell wrote. "The Penn State campus at University Park
is a complex institution with dozens of schools and departments, four thousand
faculty members, and forty-five thousand students. How on earth does anyone
propose to assign a number to something like that?"

But, despite all the criticism they generate, parsing the US News rankings has
become a rite of passage for many in the higher-ed community, and colleges are
eager for even small movement - so long as it's in the right direction.

This year, Northeastern University and University of California in Irvine made
the biggest jumps in the national university category, both rising seven places,
to a five-way tie at No. 42. Pennsylvania State University in University Park,
meanwhile, fell seven places.

Some of the more interesting rankings are in the lesser-known lists that US News
publishes. University of Maryland in Baltimore County, Arizona State University
in Tempe, and the University of Central Florida topped the list of
"up-and-comers," those universities most often cited by college administrators
asked to nominate schools that have made the most promising and innovative
changes. And Rutgers, Andrews University, and Stanford offer the most ethnic
diversity of national universities.

A list of "A-plus schools for B students" highlights less-selective schools. And
US News has created its own list of "best value" schools - a trend among many
other college-ranking publications - though the results don't look all that
different from the main lists. Harvard, Princeton, and Yale are still the top
three national universities, though the University of Chicago and Duke
University drop out of the top 10 on the "value" list.

For the first time this year, US News is also publishing data on the school
profile pages about each school's three-year federal loan default rate - a
measure of graduates' ability to repay their loans - and their safety
statistics.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday

US News college rankings: Princeton holds on to top spot. Is it really No. 1?;
College rankings have become a popular game. But US News, which has been
publishing its rankings for 30 years now, remains both the most well known and
the most controversial.

BYLINE: Amanda Paulson Staff writer

SECTION: USA

LENGTH: 767 words


Princeton fans can breathe a sigh of relief: For the second year in a row, that
school came out on top in the US News & World Report rankings, ahead of Harvard
and Yale.

For national liberal arts colleges, Williams College in Williamstown, Mass.,
also held onto its No. 1 spot from last year, with Amherst and Swarthmore close
behind.

In fact, as with most years, there was very little movement in the rankings,
which are determined based on graduation and retention rates, assessment of
excellence (largely determined by peer surveys), faculty resources, selectivity,
financial resources, how well graduation rates match up with what is predicted,
and alumni giving.

The top 10 national universities were the same as last year, with just a few
shifting place, with the small exception of Dartmouth College, which dropped
from a tie for 10th place to 11th place in this year's rankings.

College rankings have become a popular game, with numerous other publications
issuing their own - some of them based more on concrete outcomes or
affordability than the US News ones. Even the federal government plans to get
into the college ratings business (though they emphasize the distinction between
"ratings" and "rankings"), based largely on access and affordability. But US
News, which has been publishing its rankings for 30 years now, remains both the
most well known and the most controversial.

In recent years, as the problems of rising college costs and student debt have
risen to the forefront, the US News rankings are frequently cited as part of the
problem.

At best, say critics, they're of little use, giving students and their families
almost no real information about value or outcomes, and just reinforcing
previously cemented reputations. At worst, they say, they contribute to the
spiraling costs of college, encouraging schools to spend money in unnecessary
and inefficient ways on fancy buildings and amenities, in hopes of raising their
prestige and inching up in the rankings.

They can also encourage schools to increase the average SAT scores of their
student body by offering hefty "merit aid" packages to certain students,
regardless of students' financial need.

In a New Yorker essay on the topic, "What College Rankings Really Tell Us,"
Malcolm Gladwell explored how arbitrary and self-reinforcing the rankings
become, given the nearly impossible task of rating totally different
institutions with a single score.

"A single score allows us to judge between entities (like Yeshiva and Penn
State) that otherwise would be impossible to compare. At no point, however, do
the college guides acknowledge the extraordinary difficulty of the task they
have set themselves," Gladwell wrote. "The Penn State campus at University Park
is a complex institution with dozens of schools and departments, four thousand
faculty members, and forty-five thousand students. How on earth does anyone
propose to assign a number to something like that?"

But, despite all the criticism they generate, parsing the US News rankings has
become a rite of passage for many in the higher-ed community, and colleges are
eager for even small movement - so long as it's in the right direction.

This year, Northeastern University and University of California in Irvine made
the biggest jumps in the national university category, both rising seven places,
to a five-way tie at No. 42. Pennsylvania State University in University Park,
meanwhile, fell seven places.

Some of the more interesting rankings are in the lesser-known lists that US News
publishes. University of Maryland in Baltimore County, Arizona State University
in Tempe, and the University of Central Florida topped the list of
"up-and-comers," those universities most often cited by college administrators
asked to nominate schools that have made the most promising and innovative
changes. And Rutgers, Andrews University, and Stanford offer the most ethnic
diversity of national universities.

A list of "A-plus schools for B students" highlights less-selective schools. And
US News has created its own list of "best value" schools - a trend among many
other college-ranking publications - though the results don't look all that
different from the main lists. Harvard, Princeton, and Yale are still the top
three national universities, though the University of Chicago and Duke
University drop out of the top 10 on the "value" list.

For the first time this year, US News is also publishing data on the school
profile pages about each school's three-year federal loan default rate - a
measure of graduates' ability to repay their loans - and their safety
statistics.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday

US News college rankings: Princeton holds on to top spot. Is it really No. 1?;
College rankings have become a popular game. But US News, which has been
publishing its rankings for 30 years now, remains both the most well known and
the most controversial.

BYLINE: Amanda Paulson Staff writer

SECTION: USA

LENGTH: 767 words


Princeton fans can breathe a sigh of relief: For the second year in a row, that
school came out on top in the US News & World Report rankings, ahead of Harvard
and Yale.

For national liberal arts colleges, Williams College in Williamstown, Mass.,
also held onto its No. 1 spot from last year, with Amherst and Swarthmore close
behind.

In fact, as with most years, there was very little movement in the rankings,
which are determined based on graduation and retention rates, assessment of
excellence (largely determined by peer surveys), faculty resources, selectivity,
financial resources, how well graduation rates match up with what is predicted,
and alumni giving.

The top 10 national universities were the same as last year, with just a few
shifting place, with the small exception of Dartmouth College, which dropped
from a tie for 10th place to 11th place in this year's rankings.

College rankings have become a popular game, with numerous other publications
issuing their own - some of them based more on concrete outcomes or
affordability than the US News ones. Even the federal government plans to get
into the college ratings business (though they emphasize the distinction between
"ratings" and "rankings"), based largely on access and affordability. But US
News, which has been publishing its rankings for 30 years now, remains both the
most well known and the most controversial.

In recent years, as the problems of rising college costs and student debt have
risen to the forefront, the US News rankings are frequently cited as part of the
problem.

At best, say critics, they're of little use, giving students and their families
almost no real information about value or outcomes, and just reinforcing
previously cemented reputations. At worst, they say, they contribute to the
spiraling costs of college, encouraging schools to spend money in unnecessary
and inefficient ways on fancy buildings and amenities, in hopes of raising their
prestige and inching up in the rankings.

They can also encourage schools to increase the average SAT scores of their
student body by offering hefty "merit aid" packages to certain students,
regardless of students' financial need.

In a New Yorker essay on the topic, "What College Rankings Really Tell Us,"
Malcolm Gladwell explored how arbitrary and self-reinforcing the rankings
become, given the nearly impossible task of rating totally different
institutions with a single score.

"A single score allows us to judge between entities (like Yeshiva and Penn
State) that otherwise would be impossible to compare. At no point, however, do
the college guides acknowledge the extraordinary difficulty of the task they
have set themselves," Gladwell wrote. "The Penn State campus at University Park
is a complex institution with dozens of schools and departments, four thousand
faculty members, and forty-five thousand students. How on earth does anyone
propose to assign a number to something like that?"

But, despite all the criticism they generate, parsing the US News rankings has
become a rite of passage for many in the higher-ed community, and colleges are
eager for even small movement - so long as it's in the right direction.

This year, Northeastern University and University of California in Irvine made
the biggest jumps in the national university category, both rising seven places,
to a five-way tie at No. 42. Pennsylvania State University in University Park,
meanwhile, fell seven places.

Some of the more interesting rankings are in the lesser-known lists that US News
publishes. University of Maryland in Baltimore County, Arizona State University
in Tempe, and the University of Central Florida topped the list of
"up-and-comers," those universities most often cited by college administrators
asked to nominate schools that have made the most promising and innovative
changes. And Rutgers, Andrews University, and Stanford offer the most ethnic
diversity of national universities.

A list of "A-plus schools for B students" highlights less-selective schools. And
US News has created its own list of "best value" schools - a trend among many
other college-ranking publications - though the results don't look all that
different from the main lists. Harvard, Princeton, and Yale are still the top
three national universities, though the University of Chicago and Duke
University drop out of the top 10 on the "value" list.

For the first time this year, US News is also publishing data on the school
profile pages about each school's three-year federal loan default rate - a
measure of graduates' ability to repay their loans - and their safety
statistics.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                              July 16, 2007 Monday

College rankings losing their relevance

BYLINE: By Stephanie Lee Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 686 words


USC said "yes" to Kristy Gausman. So did the University of Notre Dame and
Claremont McKenna College.

But the 18-year-old senior at La Salle High School fell in love with Kenyon
College, a rigorous but tiny, lesser-known liberal arts college in rural Ohio.
Its small classes and friendly atmosphere were more important to her, Gausman
said, than Kenyon's position on U.S. News & World Report's 20-year-old ranking
of the nation's best colleges.

"I don't really care how much alums give," Gausman said, referring to part of
the criteria that U.S. News & World Report uses to determines its rankings. "I
care about what students think."

Last month, Kenyon and dozens of other liberal arts colleges - including
Scripps, Barnard and Sarah Lawrence colleges - announced they no longer will
participate in some or all aspects of the magazine's survey.

Now, some college-bound students say that decision underscores the rankings'
irrelevance.

Since it began more than two decades ago, U.S. News & World Report's annual
survey has yielded the best-known rankings of American colleges and
universities. Traditionally, the lists have provided useful data about schools
while heightening the visibility of colleges that may be academically strong but
not widely known.

But some students say the same information is readily available from a wealth of
other sources such as counselors, relatives, books, colleges themselves and the
Internet.

Ian McCarthy, 18, will join Gausman at Kenyon. The Polytechnic School graduate
said he applied for early decision after poring through numerous college
guidebooks and visiting the campus.

"In the last few years, I think that consumers and potential applicants have
become a little smarter, doing more research and realizing one list is not
necessarily going to give you all the information," McCarthy said.

Meredith Reynolds, a private admissions counselor in La Ca ada Flintridge,
pointed out that schools send mailings to thousands of potential applicants
every year.

"The hardest thing about college," she said, "is there's too much information
about college."

The presidents of Kenyon and Scripps - and other members of the Annapolis Group
of liberal arts colleges - said they will not participate in at least the
peer-assessment survey.

In the survey, administrators rank their academics compared to those of
competing institutions. The only subjective aspect of the rankings, the
peer-assessment survey counts for 25 percent of an institution's score,
according to U.S. News & World Report's Web site.

But other Annapolis Group members will continue participating in the rankings
for now. They include Occidental College in Eagle Rock, which appears this year
at No. 36 in the magazine's rankings.

"Families \ have as much information about colleges as they can possibly
obtain," William Tingley, Occidental College's vice president of admissions and
financial aid, said of the rankings.

Some students say U.S. News & World Report's rankings can be a valuable starting
point.

As a senior at South Pasadena High School, 18-year-old Hai Dai divided the top
50 schools into four categories, then chose a few from each tier.

He ended up applying to more than 20 schools, including Johns Hopkins
University, Caltech and seven University of California campuses. This fall, he
will be at UCLA.

But Dai also said that he finds that college rankings are more valuable for
parents than students because they provide context. He said when it comes to a
lesser-known college, he often hears, "Where is it on the ranking?"

When future high school seniors decide where to apply, their choices may
determine whether the colleges' decision to withdraw affects their visibility to
applicants.

Westridge alumna Terry Chi, 18, said she thinks Barnard - a women's college in
New York City, currently ranked at No. 26 - will continue to attract applicants,
partly because of its affiliation with Columbia University.

But not appearing on a list won't necessarily make prestige a thing of the past,
she said.

"People will still want their kids to go to Harvard or Yale," she said.

news.star-news@sgvn.com

(626) 578-6300, Ext. 4911

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    August 24, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Style Plus; Applications, Admissions & College Rankings

Eliot Applestein , Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 1468 words


A few days after U.S. News & World Report's 2000 College Rankings edition listed
Caltech as the top university, Charlene Liebau's phone began to ring. Calls to
the director of admissions came from students who had committed elsewhere but
suddenly had a change of heart. They wanted No. 1.

When Cornell went from sixth in 1999 to 11th in 2000, former vice president
Ronald Ehrenberg got the reverse reaction. "I actually had a freshman student
come up to me because Cornell came up very high and now that it wasn't ranked as
high, he was going to transfer to Georgetown because it wasn't as good a school
in his view. This is symptomatic of how students in these competitive
institutions want to be at the most highly ranked schools."

No one actually changed schools. But the perceptions that this "swimsuit
edition" fosters remain a potent force. The college ranking issue is "the envy
of the magazine industry," says Michael Brannick, president and CEO of
Peterson's, the largest publisher of college guides in this country.

With the college selection process so baffling, it's tempting to use a magazine
ranking as an easy guide. The savvy consumer, however, needs to know that the
rankings influence the admissions process--both for students and colleges. They
give the false impression that there really is a difference between the No. 1
and No. 6 institutions, that all of their hand-picked criteria are the right
criteria for every student, and that colleges change quickly from year to year.

Ranking's Impact on Admissions

To improve their standings in the rankings, more colleges are accepting a higher
percentage of their incoming freshman classes by early decision (ED). Penn,
Columbia, Yale and Dartmouth filled more than 40 percent of this year's incoming
freshman class with early-decision candidates. This lowers the acceptance rates
for the larger pool of applicants who are applying for regular decision. With a
higher rejection rate, colleges appear more selective and this helps ratings.
Early decision also improves the college's yield because just about all of those
accepted early will come.

Ronald Ehrenberg, author of the upcoming book "Tuition Rising: Why College Costs
So Much" (Harvard Press), and James Monks of the Consortium on Financing Higher
Education have analyzed the impact of the rankings on admission's policies at 30
private institutions that consistently have been ranked as top national
universities and liberal arts colleges. Their findings suggest that changes in
the yearly ranking have measurable effects on admission outcomes and pricing
policies at institutions.

"If your ranking improved from five to one," says Ehrenberg, "the number of
students who applied went up and the number of students you accepted went down.
Of the number who you admitted and who actually went, SAT scores went up. In
addition, these institutions didn't have to use as much financial aid to attract
these students."

Conversely, Ehrenberg's research shows for the private institutions studied that
a drop of one place in the rankings increases a school's admission rate by
almost half a percentage point.

These schools had to admit more students because their applicant pool diminished
as did the number of students willing to attend. With an increased admission
rate, the SAT scores for the incoming freshmen class also dropped.

"It used to be," says Ehrenberg, "that institutions would make financial offers
to students and if students came back and said, 'I don't think you understand my
needs, perhaps you can reevaluate this,' they would make a change. But now the
market has become so competitive that students come back and say that they have
received an offer from one institution and then go to another and share this and
want them to top it.

"Financial aid offices don't want to talk about this, but it is going on.
Students have become so preoccupied with going to the best schools, and if you
fall in the rankings, you have to provide more aid to the students to get them
to come. So the rankings influence how much the institutions have to spend on
aid."

A Love-Hate Relationship

"Even though colleges and universities constantly criticize the rankings and
urge potential students and their parents to ignore them," says Ehrenberg,
"every institution pays very close attention to the ratings and tries to take
actions to improve its ranking."

U.S. News relies on data that colleges submit on 16 variables, including the
percentage of alumni who contribute, acceptance rates, retention rate and class
size.

A subjective academic "reputational survey" about the school from other colleges
is worth 25 percent of the ranking. But 38 percent of responding colleges,
including Stanford and Cornell, have refused to submit this data because they
either didn't know about a particular school or they didn't feel that subjective
data was helpful.

In 1996, Alma College in Michigan unsuccessfully tried to organize a boycott of
the reputational survey by encouraging other college presidents, provosts and
admissions directors to withhold reputational rankings. According to a spokesman
for the college, however, "While a number of colleges supported our idea,
several colleges that were ranked high on the list didn't want to participate
because they felt they benefited from the rankings."

Forced to play the rankings game, some colleges may manipulate the data.

Says Caltech's Liebau: "Some schools do not include the SAT scores of their
athletes who report to school earlier than other incoming freshmen to keep
scores high. Or they may not include scores of international students."

The more applications a college receives, the more selective it appears. Some
colleges may count applicants as anyone who has requested an application.

According to William Conley, dean of admissions at Case Western Reserve: "I
think there are still some schools who can say a Part 1 application, even though
it never is completed, is an application. Some institutions double dip. If a
student applies to several different schools in the university, they will count
all of these as if they are different applications."

Another variable looks at retention rates of students, but some majors are
notorious for weeding out weak students.

"Forty percent of our students at Case Western are engineering majors," says
Conley. "You will have a greater attrition level with engineering than liberal
arts. We have thought that if we changed the number of students who we admitted
into engineering from 40 percent to 35 percent, our retention rate would be
higher. But we haven't done this."

Rankings give the impression that colleges change quickly. They do not.

For example, half of Cornell's employees are paid by New York state, notes
Ehrenberg. But one year their employment benefits didn't show up in Cornell's
accounts. An important component is how much a university spends on its faculty.
When Cornell explained this to U.S. News & World Report, says Ehrenberg, the
magazine allowed them to include these and that made Cornell look better.

"Not very much changes at these institutions," says Ehrenberg. "Colleges change
very slowly. So it is very hard to believe that the education students have been
getting at Cornell was changed over the past several years."

According to Ehrenberg, "The factors that USNWR uses in its formula, and the
arbitrary weight that it assigns to each to compute the overall ranking, have
changed over time. This leads to the possibility that Institution A may be
ranked higher than Institution B one year, but lower the next year, even if
nothing has changed at either institution, simply because the weights assigned
to different factors have changed."

What do the rankings measure?

"The rankings legitimize the kind of perceptions we have of what the medallion
institutions are," says Conley.

"They have name recognition and so people play a word association. They will
say, 'Stanford, Harvard, Penn.' The rankings have captured all of the informal
assumptions about which institutions are of the highest quality because they
have the highest name recognition. USNWR has not done anything to broaden an
understanding of what makes a great university."

Adds Conley, "I think Americans want ranking, whether it's the top 10 luxury
sedans or top 10 areas to live. It allows us an easy way to rate things.
Families use it as one of many barometers to determine the college choice list.
It provides a framework for some people to explore a better map. The danger is
that the student may think that USNWR has done the kind of subjective, emotional
homework for them."

Eliot Applestein is an independent college counselor in North Bethesda. Send
comments to www.bestfouryears.com


LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, JOHN N. MATHIAS FOR TWP

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              85 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                  Herald-Journal (Spartanburg, South Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 26, 2013 Monday

Converse College listed near top in Washington Monthly's annual ranking

BYLINE: Drew Brooks, Herald-Journal, Spartanburg, S.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 561 words


Aug. 26--For the second year, Converse College is the top-ranked school in the
state in Washington Monthly magazine's annual college guide.

The rankings, released Monday, order the country's institutions of higher
learning based on their "contribution to the public good."

The magazine, which prides itself on rankings that differ widely from other
college lists, looks into three broad categories for each school â[#x2c6]'
social mobility, research and service â[#x2c6]' while categorizing the schools
into four groups -- National, Liberal Arts, Master's and Baccalaureate.

Converse College was named the nation's fifth-best master's university,
according to the rankings.

The school ranked highly in the number of students who go on to receive
doctorates and current participation of alumni in the Peace Corps.

Last year, Converse was third on the same list. In 2011, the school ranked 43rd.

Converse officials said they were thrilled by the news and said the unique
rankings play to the school's strengths.

"This national recognition as a leader in research, service, and social mobility
for two years in a row is an exciting start to Converse's 125th anniversary
year. The Washington Monthly ranking speaks to the exceptional value Converse
provides her students, especially in helping to activate their voice and vision
to advance dreams, careers and communities," said Converse President Betsy
Fleming. "Such a nationwide accolade adds to the momentum of our recent gains
and success stories -- Fulbright scholars and Goldwater honors, two South
Carolina Professors of the Year, significant undergraduate enrollment growth and
the construction of new facilities."

The Washington Monthly rankings, according to editor-in-chief Paul Glastris, are
the magazine's answer to the U.S. News & World Report college rankings.

Glastris, in a written statement, said those rankings rely on "crude and easily
manipulated measure of wealth, exclusivity, and prestige."

"Instead, we rate schools based on what they are doing for the country,"
Glastris said, "on whether they're improving social mobility, producing
research, and promoting public service."

The result is a ranking that differs largely from other similar lists. Yale and
Dartmouth, for instance, are not included in the Washington Monthly top 50.

In all, 32 South Carolina schools were named in the guide.

Other local schools included Wofford, which was ranked 191st among liberal arts
colleges; the University of South Carolina Upstate, which was ranked 186th among
baccalaureate universities; and Limestone College, which was ranked 325th among
baccalaureate universities.

In its methodology, Washington Monthly said each category was equally weighted.
In the study, social mobility refers to the school's ability to recruit and
graduate low-income students. Research is the college or university's production
of cutting-edge scholarships and students who go on to earn PhDs. Service means
encouraging students to give something back to their communities.

Another list, new to this year's guide, ranked schools by the best "Bang for the
Buck." That ranking included seven S.C. schools, with Converse ranking 171st and
Wofford ranking 183rd among 349 schools.

___ (c)2013 Spartanburg Herald-Journal (Spartanburg, S.C.) Visit the Spartanburg
Herald-Journal (Spartanburg, S.C.) at www.GoUpstate.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130826-SG-Converse-College
-listed-near-top-in-Washington-Monthly-s-annual-rankings-20130826

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SG


                         Copyright 2013 Herald-Journal


                              86 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                          September 13, 2017 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

HIGHER EDUCATION;
Some Georgia colleges fared well in national rankings

BYLINE: Eric Stirgus; Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 416 words


A handful of Georgia universities and colleges fared well in the 2018 U.S. News
& World Report's annual rankings of the nation's best.

Many institutions eagerly await the rankings as a marketing tool to recruit
prospective students. The rankings are widely publicized, but are viewed as as
more sizzle than steak by some critics.

Here are five key takeaways for Georgia colleges and universities from this
year's rankings:

Spelman College was ranked as the nation's top historically black college and
university. The all women's college, near downtown Atlanta, has the highest
graduation rate of any HBCU, 74 percent, and of freshmen in the top quarter of
their high school graduating class at 73 percent.

Emory University had the highest ranking of any Georgia school on the national
universities list. The university was ranked 21st.

Princeton University was the top-ranked institution on the national list.

Two University System of Georgia institutions finished among the top 20 national
public universities. Georgia Tech ranked seventh in that category while the
University of Georgia was ranked 16th, two spots higher than last year.

Emory and Mercer universities were both considered among the best value for
national universities, ranking 17th and 39th, respectively. The best values are
based on factors such as the average cost after receiving needs-based grants.

Agnes Scott College was ranked the second most innovative national liberal arts
institution.The all female college in Decatur also ranked as the third most
ethnically-diverse national liberal arts institution.

To create the rankings, U.S. News gathers data from each college on up to 15
indicators of academic excellence such as first-year student retention, student
selectivity, graduation rates and the strength of the faculty.The final scores
for the schools also include some informed opinion, such as U.S. News' judgment
in assigning "weights" to how much the measures matter. The ranking formula also
gives weight to the opinions, for instance, of those in a position to judge a
school's undergraduate academic excellence.The rankings also break the schools
down into multiple categories, such as regional universities, best public
schools and best value schools.

(Box)

OTHER RANKINGS OF NOTE Other notable top-30 finishes among metro Atlanta
colleges and universities:

Best HBCUs

Morehouse College#4 Clark Atlanta University #16

Best regional

universities in the

South

Berry College in Rome #8

Reinhardt University in Cherokee County#28

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2017 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              87 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 23, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Colleges Exaggerate Survey Sway

BYLINE: STACI BACKUSKAS, commcol@tampatrib.com

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 366 words


By STACI BACKUSKAS

commcol@tampatrib.com

Eckerd College is among a group of top liberal arts schools whose leaders have
decided to no longer participate in the U.S. News and World Reports survey.

The survey is used to produce the magazine's annual college rankings, which the
withdrawing colleges dismiss as a baseless beauty contest.

These institutions are overreacting.

Anyone smart enough to get into a top college knows that the U.S. News and World
Reports' rankings shouldn't be the deciding factor. But the rankings provide a
good, independent starting point to compare colleges on some key markers of
quality - such as student-faculty ratios, class sizes and graduation rates.

For families helping their young scholars select the right college, these guides
can be useful in developing the right questions to ask.

Families know they have to visit the institution to make sure that it has the
right atmosphere for their child. No ranking will ever replace the importance of
location, price, the quality of individual academic programs and family
tradition in the selection process.

Members of the Annapolis Group, whose 124 members make up most of the top 100
liberal arts colleges in the U.S. News rankings, want to create their own score
sheet through the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities.
As long as the rankings are handled objectively, that too will be a fine
resource for students wanting to learn more about schools on their list.

When U.S. News started these rankings in 1987, it was difficult to get any kind
of information comparing colleges and universities to each other. The Internet
and state accountability measures have made it easier for families to make
evaluations.

Academics may not like to view higher education as a consumer product, but
families want good value for their money.

The colleges can do their own rankings, but it's only a matter of time before
those who don't like where they are placed will find fault with that system,
too.

The funny thing about rankings is the only ones who think they are a great idea
are those at the top.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday
                          SPORTS FINAL REPLATE EDITION

College king Princeton reigns as No. 1 over Harvard & Yale

BYLINE: BY BEN CHAPMAN NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 316 words


PRINCETON TOOK top honors as the country's finest college for 2015, according to
the annual university rankings from U.S. News & World Report released Tuesday.

It's the second year running that the New Jersey college came out on top, as
U.S. News maintained its methodology for tallying the nation's providers of
higher learning.

"Princeton was able to maintain its ranking as a result of its continued,
across-the-board strong performance in the ranking indicators," said U.S. News
chief data strategist Bob Morse.

Two years ago, Princeton tied with Harvard for the top spot in the rankings.

Harvard took second place in the 2015 rankings followed by Yale in third place,
as in 2014.

Nationally, the same schools are on the top 10 list for 2015 as in 2014, minus
Dartmouth, which fell to No. 11. There were multiple ties in the rankings for
the top 10 national schools, as in previous years.

Among New York colleges in the rankings, Columbia took fourth place for 2015,
Cornell took 15th, New York University came in at 32nd and Yeshiva followed at
48th place. Fordham came in 58th.

U.S. News experts compiled data on nearly 1,800 colleges for its 2015 listings.

Eligible schools were ranked on up to 16 different factors, each weighted for
importance.

Number-crunchers considered factors including acceptance rates, class sizes,
graduation rates, SAT scores and more.

Ivy League schools dominated the top rankings, as in previous years.

Tuition and fees for each of the top 10 schools were more than $40,000 a year.

Princeton posted the lowest tuition of the top colleges even as it held on to
the top spot in the rankings. Tuition and fees are $41,820 for the 2014-15
school year.

Columbia had the highest total tab at $51,008.

To view the rankings visit www.usnews.com/college.

GRAPHIC:

SUPER SCHOOLS

THE TOP COLLEGES

Princeton

Harvard

Yale

Columbia*

Stanford University*

University of Chicago

*Tyed for fourth place

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, NLVL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Daily News, L.P.


                              89 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             October 2, 2015 Friday

New York: Morrisville State College makes the grade in U.S. News and World
Report

LENGTH: 474 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Albany: Morrisville State College, The State of New York has issued the
following News release:



 Morrisville State College has made the grade again. The college has been ranked
among the Best Regional Colleges in the North in the U.S. News and World Report
Best Colleges 2016 issue, a publication renowned for its higher education
rankings, climbing 10 spots in this year's round of rankings to No. 33, from No.
43 (in 2015).



 Morrisville State also gained two spots from its No. 14 ranking to No. 12 in
the Top Public Schools, Regional Colleges North in the 2016 Best Colleges
rankings.



 In addition, the college was ranked No. 25 in Best College for Veterans,
Regional Colleges North.



 The USNWR rankings are released annually and rely on data provided by
universities to produce college rankings on a variety of factors reflecting
academic quality.



 &ldquo;We strive to consistently deliver the highest-quality education to our
students,&rdquo; said Morrisville State College President David Rogers.
&ldquo;The rankings truly reflect the exceptional hands-on educational
experience students receive which prepares them for rewarding careers and life
beyond the classroom.&rdquo;



 Morrisville joins other SUNY institutions which also made the grade in the
USNWR rankings.



 &ldquo;The State University of New York has historically offered students an
affordable, accessible higher education that is second to none,&rdquo; said SUNY
Chancellor Nancy L. Zimpher. &ldquo;As we work to bring the benefits of a SUNY
education to even more students through our Completion Agenda, we are proud to
see so many of our colleges and universities recognized by U.S. News & World
Report again this year.&rdquo;



 According to the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education,
regional colleges focus mainly on the undergraduate experience and offer a broad
range of programs in liberal arts (which account for fewer than half of all
bachelor's degrees granted) and in fields such as business, nursing and
education. They grant few graduate degrees. Because most of the colleges in the
category draw heavily from nearby states, they are ranked by region.



 Regional Universities and Regional Colleges are divided and ranked in four
geographical groups: North, South, Midwest and West. Ranking methodologies vary
by discipline.



 To view the rankings, visit usnews.com and click on colleges.



 Morrisville State College's curricula are enriched with applied learning and
pave the way for opportunity at both the Morrisville and Norwich campuses. An
action-oriented, interactive learning lab, the college is a national leader in
technology and has been lauded for its exemplary, innovative and effective
community service programs.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 11, 2017 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

New college rankings tackle the problem of measuring outcomes

BYLINE: Jeffrey J. Selingo

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 863 words


Some 20 years ago, I spent my summer in Washington as an intern for the U.S.
News & World Report college rankings. Part of my job was to call colleges to get
missing data that was used to compile the rankings or confirm the data that the
magazine already had from the school. Princeton University ended up No. 1 in the
rankings that year. Last year, Princeton was No. 1. In other words, not much has
changed in two decades. The top of the list has remained relatively consistent
for quite some time.

But the universities at the top of the U.S. News list represent a tiny fraction
of American higher education. There is no doubt that Princeton is a good school
and that most of its graduates get good jobs and have solid and rewarding
careers. What parents and students really want to know, however, is how to
differentiate the outcomes of the thousands of other colleges that are not among
the top schools in the U.S. News rankings.

A spate of new rankings and other studies have emerged in recent years
attempting to answer that question by looking more closely at the employment and
earnings records of college graduates and weighing them against the cost of
attending college and the chances of graduating on time. These rankings, from
the Wall Street Journal, the Economist and Gallup, among others, are based
largely on new data sources about recent college graduates.

Money magazine was one of the first to use data on the employment outcomes of
graduates, and its rankings remain among the best for students and parents to
consider (but certainly are not the be-all and end-all  of the college search
process). The latest edition of the Money rankings was released Monday. Like
other rankers, Money tweaks its formula every year - partly in response to
complaints from colleges and because it wants to sell a new set of rankings to a
new crop of prospective students. From a business perspective, rankings need to
change slightly every year but also include enough familiar names and a few
surprises.

This year, Money added a data set to its methodology that is known in higher
education circles as the "Chetty data." That refers to Raj Chetty, a Stanford
University professor who has led a team of economists that received access to
millions of anonymous tax records that span generations. The group has published
several headline-grabbing studies recently based on the data. In findings
published in January, the group tracked students from nearly every U.S. college
and measured their earnings more than a decade after they left campus, whether
they graduated or not.

The results were grim for a higher education system that claims to be a ladder
to upward mobility. The data showed, for example, that the City University of
New York propelled almost six times as many low-income students into the middle
class and beyond as all eight Ivy League campuses, plus Duke University, MIT,
Stanford and the University of Chicago, combined. The California State
University system advanced three times as many.

Money magazine included the Chetty data as part of 27 measures that it uses to
rank schools in an effort to illustrate the track record of a campus in moving
less-affluent students into the upper middle class.

Several schools perform well on the measure of economic mobility, and it clearly
helped them in the final Money rankings. The magazine's editors let me look at
the rankings with the Chetty data included and without. The City University of
New York's Baruch College ended up No. 2 overall in the rankings, behind
Princeton (of course). Without the economic mobility data included, Baruch would
have ranked No. 30.

Other campuses that performed better as a result of the economic mobility data
included the College of New Jersey, the University of California at Riverside
and the University of Florida. One downside of using the Chetty data in rankings
such as these: The information is dated. It includes students who enrolled in
college in the late 1990s and are now in their 30s. So the data, and thus the
rankings, don't capture the recent strides that some colleges have made in
enrolling more low-income and middle-income students.

But the Chetty data and how Money magazine used the numbers this year is a good
start in helping families to differentiate between the outcomes of thousands of
colleges. It comes as there is concern that the U.S. Education Department under
the Trump administration might abandon consumer tools put in place under the
Obama administration, like the College Scorecard. Last month, Inside Higher Ed
reported that the Education Department appears to be planning to keep the
scorecard at least for another year.

It's not clear, however, that the federal government needs to construct data
tools such sa the College Scorecard. It just needs to collect and disseminate
the data. The proliferation of rankings and other studies in recent years shows
that there are plenty of outside groups - both nonprofit organizations and
profit-making magazines - willing to build the necessary tools that get us
closer to a future of better consumer information about one of the biggest
purchases we'll make in our lifetimes.

jeff.selingo@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 22, 2014 Friday

CSUSB ranked No. 7 on Educate to Career list of more than 1,200 four-year
colleges in the U.S.

LENGTH: 559  words

DATELINE: San Bernardino


California State University, San Bernardino has issued the following news
release:

Another organization that ranks four-year colleges and universities according to
the outcomes of their graduates has placed Cal State San Bernardino at No. 7
among 1,222 higher education institutions in the United States.
The ETC College Rankings Index has placed Cal State San Bernardino at No. 7
among 1,222 higher education institutions in the United States.

The ETC College Rankings Index has placed Cal State San Bernardino at No. 7
among 1,222 higher education institutions in the United States.

The new ranking, called the ETC College Rankings Index, was compiled by Educate
to Career, Inc., a California-based nonprofit research organization.

"The index empirically determines the economic value added by each of the more
than 1,200 colleges ranked within our system," said Educate to Career founder
Michael R. Havis. "We calculate the improvement in earnings and employability of
persons who attended specific colleges, relative to persons who are similarly
situated in other colleges."

Using the similar idea of how well students do after they graduate, MONEY
magazine, in its "Best Colleges" rankings published July 28, placed CSUSB No. 12
on its list of "The 25 Colleges That Add the Most Value."

"The ETC College Rankings Index, and others like it, show prospective and
current students - and our alumni - the quality and value of a degree from
CSUSB," said Tomás Morales, president of the university. "It also recognizes the
hard work our faculty, administrators and staff do to ensure the university's
goal of transforming the lives of our students."

According to the Educate to Careers website, the index "analyzes the quality of
students when they enter a given college, the total costs related to attending
the college, and the outcomes of the students when they enter the labor market.
The rankings results are determined by which schools did the best job of
improving the earnings and attainment of quality employment of their students."
The ETC College Rankings Index results are determined by which schools did the
best job of improving the earnings and attainment of quality employment of their
students.

The ETC College Rankings Index results are determined by which schools did the
best job of improving the earnings and attainment of quality employment of their
students.

In the top 10, the ETC Index placed the University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill at No. 1, followed by California State University, Los Angeles at No. 2.
Cal State San Bernardino was the next CSU campus on the list at No. 7, and Cal
State Bakersfield was listed at No. 9. Among the University of California
campuses, UC Merced was No. 3, with UC Riverside at No. 5, followed by UC Irvine
at No. 6.

"Not so surprisingly, local public colleges tend to offer the best value in a
college education based on our criteria," Havis said.

For the complete ranking and more information, visit the Educate to Career
website.

The ETC Rankings Index and the MONEY magazine listings are the latest in which
CSUSB was recognized nationally. In April, Time Magazine listed the university
37th using criteria that measured graduation rates, tuition and the percentage
of students who receive Pell Grants from 2,500 institutions of higher learning.

For more information please visit: http://www.csusb.edu

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 5, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

On Campus;
Fighting the Rankings of a College Guide

BYLINE: By Peter Applebome;  Peter Applebome is the national education
correspondent for The New York Times.

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 16; Column 3; Education Life Supplement

LENGTH: 1839 words


An unlikely revolt of students against grades -- not their own, but the ones
their colleges and universities get from a national magazine -- is becoming a
cause celebre on a growing number of campuses.

At its root is a simple question: Does U.S. News & World Report provide a useful
consumer service each year with its closely watched numerical ranking of the
nation's colleges and universities, or does it deliver a cynical, misleading
product whose main contribution is to the magazine's bottom line?

The dispute also touches on the broader topic of how best to judge and measure
the quality of a university education and how to make sure parents and
prospective students get helpful, accurate information about one of the biggest
financial and personal decisions they will ever make.

At the center of the dispute is U.S. News's annual "America's Best Colleges"
guide -- the best-selling one in the nation -- which gives a numerical ranking
to 1,422 accredited four-year schools. Among them are 400 national universities
and liberal arts colleges. The ranking has become a huge annual event, but one
that is widely reviled by many educators and students, who say ranking colleges
and universities like toasters or football teams does more harm than good.

So far, student governments of the university systems of California and Oklahoma
and at least 17 other colleges and universities, from Stanford to the University
of Pennsylvania, have passed resolutions asking U.S. News to halt the numerical
ranking. They argue that the ranking is misleading and inaccurate and that it
contributes to a kind of status hysteria that is undermining the real goals of
higher education in the United States. Fifty to 100 other campuses are debating
the issue.

Many university administrators credit U.S. News with being careful, diligent and
flexible enough to make its rankings as fair as possible. But even so, many say
it is impossible to rank universities in any meaningful way, and that the U.S.
News ratings have become prime culprits in turning the choice of a college from
an essentially educational issue to a high-stakes economic and social
transaction.

"We don't like to see education reduced to a horse race, which is essentially
what this amounts to," said Fiona Rose, student government president at the
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, which recently passed a resolution condemning
the rankings.

Schools that have passed similar resolutions include the University of
California, Berkeley, Smith College, Rice University, the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and Wesleyan University.

In December U.S. News met with a group of students critical of the rankings and
says it has consistently worked with university administrators to improve its
system.

"We're very forthright that the ranking should be used only as one tool to help
someone make an informed decision," said Bruce Zanca, director of communications
for U.S. News. "It's something we do for our readers to help put in context in a
reader-friendly, digestible form this huge amount of data and information."

Guidebooks, including ones that broadly rank universities in categories like
"most selective," "very selective" and "selective," have long been part of the
process in which high school students consider colleges.

But in recent years the guidebooks have proliferated, and none have prospered
more than U.S. News's. The magazine bills its rankings as the "No. 1 Selling
College Guide." Its latest issue with the rankings had newsstand sales 56
percent above the norm.. In addition, the magazine sells about a million copies
of its paperback book version of the college guide.

The U.S. News rankings are based on a number of factors. The single biggest
factor -- academic reputation -- is based on surveys sent to 4,200 college
presidents, deans and admissions directors, who are asked to rate schools in the
same category (like regional liberal arts colleges) as their own. Academic
quality counts for 25 percent of the total ranking. Other categories include
selectivity, faculty resources, financial resources, retention (graduation
rate), alumni giving and "value added" -- the school's record of graduating
students, this time taking into account their backgrounds and entering
qualifications. Then the ratings are converted to a score, with 100 at the top
and many schools separated by only 0.1 or 0.2 of a point.

The magazine gets most of the information from the colleges and universities,
but says it uses computer analysis and comparisons with information given to
financial rating services, like Moody's and Standard & Poors, to cross-check
data provided by the schools.

The current revolt against the ranking began at Stanford University, which U.S.
News this year ranks the sixth-best national university, behind Yale, Princeton,
Harvard, Duke and M.I.T.

Nick Thompson, a Stanford senior, helped form the "Forget U.S. News Coalition,"
or FUNC, which helped mobilize attention elsewhere. Students initially
considered asking their universities to withhold data from U.S. News, but
decided the approach was unrealistic because of the fear that schools would be
penalized in the rankings.

And Gerhard Casper, president of Stanford, has been among the most outspoken
university administrators criticizing the magazine. In fact, the stinging memo
he wrote to the new U.S. News Editor, James Fallows, in September, has made the
rounds of university administrators around the country as the most succinct
statement of the case against the rankings.

"I hope I have the standing to persuade you that much about these rankings --
particularly their specious formulas and spurious precision -- is utterly
misleading," Mr. Casper wrote in September to Mr. Fallows. Prior to becoming the
editor of U.S. News this fall, Mr. Fallows himself emerged as a prominent media
critic by lambasting the media's excessive focus on so-called "horse race"
journalism.

Critics say the ratings are arbitrary and favor private institutions over public
ones. In his letter, Mr. Casper cited the lack of logic in ranking a school like
Johns Hopkins University as the 22d-best national university two years ago, the
10th-best last year and the 15th-best this year. Similarly, he cited Harvard,
which customarily places first in the ratings, but this year suddenly dropped to
third. And he questioned why great public institutions like the University of
Michigan or the University of California, Berkeley, could not crack U.S. News's
top 20.

And some students say the rankings are leading universities to adjust policies
(or fudge figures) to please the rankers, and leadingstudents to pick a school
based on its ranking rather than its suitablity.

"We've had students come forward on the Internet, like one from Carnegie Mellon,
who said he was miserable there, but was basically required to apply because it
was the highest-ranked of the schools he could seriously consider," said
Jebediah Purdy, a Harvard senior. "Any effort to quantify educational quality is
going to be distortive and is going to end up leaving a lot of people less well
matched and less well satisfied and less well educated than they ought to be."

Other critics concede that they may be seen as griping about their own schools'
ratings. They also acknowledge that students at the top-rated schools may see
little incentive to complain.

"It's obviously more difficult to get this passed at Yale, because the student
body as a whole is not necessarily convinced that U.S. News is doing anything
bad for them," said Phyllis Thompson, a senior at Yale, which placed first in
this year's rankings.

Mel Elfin, editor of the guide since its inception 10 years ago, said that the
volatility in the rankings reflects the guide's willingness to listen to
critics, and that the differences between the top schools are so small that
focusing on the changes in numerical ranking misses the degree to which the
rankings have been consistent and accurate. For instance, in the current rating
of best national universities, Yale ranks first at 100.0, Princeton second at
99.8 and Harvard third at 99.6.

"We've produced a list that puts Harvard, Yale and Princeton, in whatever order,
at the top," Mr. Elfin said. "This is a nutty list? Something we pulled out of
the sky?"

Instead, he said, the changes reflect the magazine's willingness to fine-tune
its ratings, while giving readers a product they obviously want.

"When you buy a VCR for 200 bucks, you can buy Consumer Reports to find out
what's out there," he said. "When you spend 100 grand on four years of college,
you should have some independent method of comparing different colleges. That's
what our readers want, and they've voted at the newsstand in favor of what we're
doing."

Still, while few administrators want to criticize U.S. News too publicly, and
many feel the information in the report is valuable, they also say that the
rankings do more harm than good.

"I wish these rankings would go away," said an administrator at one university
in the magazine's top 10, who asked not to be identified, "because in the final
analysis, they generate more heat than light. Parents and students need more
information, but the ratings just produce more anxiety."

A broader concern is for the accuracy of the information in the various rating
guides. Arthur J. Rothkopf of Lafayette College in Easton, Pa., has spearheaded
an effort to develop standardized questions and criteria to make sure that
colleges accurately report comparable data to guidebooks, including the one by
U.S. News. An article in the Wall Street Journal in 1995 detailed the ways
colleges manipulated the data they provided to guidebooks, often excluding large
numbers of academically poor or foreign students from their statistics in order
to inflate performance.

Mr. Rothkopf, too, thinks U.S. News's rankings are too misleading to be
valuable.

"This is consumer information, and people make very important decisions based on
it," he said. "They ought to have accurate information and be able to view a
level playing field."

A ranking of the rankings has also been critical of U.S. News.

Alma College in Alma, Mich.,recently released what it said was a survey of 158
college administrators, who ranked U.S. News's last in quality among college
guidebooks, giving it a paltry 1.97 -- a C- -- on a 4.0 scale.

Some 90 percent of respondents said the magazine's ranking was important, but
only 7.6 percent surveyed said it was the one that most accurately described
their school.

Mr. Fallows, who notes that the rankings preceded his tenure as editor, said
that he is eager to meet with critics. He declined to comment on whether the
magazine was open to doing away with the numerical rankings.

But Mr. Zanca said: "I'd never say never, but I don't see us stepping away from
the numerical rankings. It's something our readers expect from us."

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Table: "A CLOSER LOOK: How Colleges Stack Up" lists the leaders among
national universities as reported by U.S. News & World Report in its numerical
ranking of America's Best colleges. (Source: U.S. News & World Report)

Drawings. (Horacio Cardo)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 13, 2015 Friday

The 50 Best Online Colleges for 2015-2016

LENGTH: 512 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Boca Raton: Everglades University has issued the following news release:

  education more generally have seen an enormous increase in student e-learners
over the last decade. Ten years ago, America saw around 2 million higher
education students learning online. That number has now almost quadrupled.





 According to a 2015 report by Babson Research titled Tracking Online Education
in the United States, today the number of college students learning online
exceeds 7 million. With the overall higher education student body in the U.S.
currently at 21 million, that means one out of three college students is taking
at least one course entirely online.



 It's therefore no surprise that online colleges and universities, which focus
on delivering course content exclusively online, have proliferated. These
schools enable students to finish a degree program and graduate with little more
than a laptop and internet connection.



 Nonetheless, online colleges and universities differ widely in quality.
Moreover, with increasing competition for online students, many campus-based
schools are now getting into the mix and offering online degrees. For this
reason, rankings of online colleges and universities need to be regularly
updated. Hence this ranking of the top 50 online colleges for 2015-16.



 Although online education gives students unrivaled flexibility in pursuing a
degree program, it is not right for everyone. Online education requires
self-discipline and a set of study skills that some students on first attending
college may lack. For this reason, we have supplemented this ranking with our
highly informative &ldquo;Savvy Student's Guide to Online Colleges and Online
Education&rdquo; (located below right after our ranking).



 Together, our ranking of the 50 best online colleges and universities for
2015-16 as well as our student guide to online colleges and online education
provide the most comprehensive resource available on the web for helping
prospective students determine whether online education is right for them and,
if so, deciding which online college is best for them.



 This ranking of the best online colleges and universities is based on extensive
research and familiarity with American online education. In formulating this
ranking, we looked to such factors as academic excellence, scholarly strength of
faculty, online teaching methods, tuition costs, reputation, awards, financial
aid, and range of degree programs offered.



 tbs-seal-best-online-college-2015This ranking of the best online colleges and
universities, along with the supplemental student guide at the end, is meant to
help you, the prospective student, make wise choices about your online
education. This ranking identifies colleges and universities offering a
high-quality online education. Note that traditional campus-based schools appear
here only if they offer an extensive and robust array of online degree programs.






 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com









LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                     October 23, 2000 Monday, ALL EDITIONS

Community colleges slighted in rankings

BYLINE: Daniel M. Asquino

SECTION: COMMENTARY; AS I SEE IT; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 413 words



It's that time of year again: The annual rankings of colleges and universities
are available in the standard weekly publications. You can pick up a copy at
your local newsstand.

I have reviewed the rankings and the methodology used to determine America's
Best Colleges,'' and again have been left with a sense of emptiness and
frustration. My concerns regarding these rankings are two-fold:

First, the rankings are based on data and ratios, and do not reflect the true
views or opinions of the consumers of higher education services, that is, the
students. The people responsible for compiling and publishing these lists do not
appear to possess even rudimentary knowledge of the factors that result in a
qualitative higher-education experience, or why people select certain colleges.

They completely ignore the fact that students and parents choose colleges and
universities out of what appears to be best for the student. Most offer similar
services and educational opportunities- especially during the freshman and
sophomore years of attendance. Differences are in the size of the college, the
location of the college, the costs of attendance, and in specific emphasis in
areas such as sports or technical training.

My second concern is that these rankings completely ignore the segment of higher
education that provides higher-education instruction to half the students
currently enrolled in U.S. colleges and universities- the more than 1,500
community colleges.

People select community colleges such as Mount Wachusett Community College
because of cost of attendance, transferability of credits, location, small
student-to-faculty ratios, individual attention, and many other factors.

Our community colleges contribute so richly to the American landscape that if,
in any one day, every person who attended a community college failed to report
to work or failed to purchase a good or service, our economy would come to a
standstill. Our hospitals would close, our manufacturing plants would cease to
operate and our schools would be without teachers.

Community colleges are most willing to continue to contribute to our economic
development, free of the burden of rankings. Nonetheless, if rankings are to be
done, then let them be based on consumer feedback and real opinions, and let us
include the segment of higher education that enrolls half of our nation's
students.

Daniel M. Asquino is president of Mount Wachusett Community College in Gardner.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.


                              95 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    August 28, 2003, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Rating colleges is big business

BYLINE: Mary Beth Marklein

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 708 words

What do Williams College, Simon Fraser University and the University of Tehran
have in common?

Each tops somebody's list of best colleges this year. Ever since U.S. News &
World Report's college rankings issue became a top seller -- some
higher-education insiders call it the "swimsuit issue" -- publishers have
discovered that the sometimes drab, button-down world of higher education can
help sell magazines and guidebooks during back-to-school season:

 * Newsweek listed its 12 "hot" schools Monday; Grinnell College in Grinnell,
Iowa, was crowned best "all-around" college.

 * In its September/October issue, lefty publication Mother Jones identifies
this year's "top 10 activist campuses," and the University of Tehran took top
honors. (Reason: the "unflinching dissent" of its student body last November
after a history professor was sentenced to death for his views on who should
have the power to interpret the Koran. His sentence was commuted to 74 lashes
and eight years in prison.)


* September's Outside magazine weighs in with a cover story placing the
University of California-Santa Cruz, Simon Fraser University in British
Columbia, Canada, and Montana State University among its 40 "coolest places to
learn, live, work and play."

There's more. In addition to profiles of the "best 351 colleges" in its 2004
guidebook, The Princeton Review publishes rankings based on student surveys.
Kaplan, its competitor in the test-prep field, this year offers its guide to the
328 "most interesting" colleges. Rather than ranking schools, the book opens
with lists of multiple colleges -- "best value" and "hidden treasures" for
example -- based on surveys of guidance counselors.

When rankings bring good news for a school, most campuses bask in their success.


Publicists for Washington University in St. Louis, for example, were quick to
call reporters last week when they learned that the campus had cracked the U.S.
News top 10, tying Dartmouth for ninth place among national universities.

But when the distinction is dubious, the rankings become an annoying headache.
Pity the University of Colorado-Boulder, which this year was anointed not only
the No. 1 "party school" by The Princeton Review but also the campus where
students study the least number of hours. Last year, the school ranked No. 7 in
the top 10 counterculture colleges according to High Times, a magazine dedicated
to marijuana.

Last week, officials responded to an Associated Press query by touting its
distinguished faculty and award-winning students. And to be fair, Colorado
earned a spot this year on the Outside honor roll, which hypes the campus'
active recreation center and hiking club along with the state's mountain parks
system and ski resorts. Then again, that might help explain its performance in
the study-habit category.

Most such rankings are "generally harmless," says higher-education consultant
Paul Boyer, author of the just-published College Rankings Exposed: The Art of
Getting a Quality Education in the 21st Century (Thomson/Peterson's).

But then there's U.S. News. With its number crunching based on data such as
library holdings, alumni donations and selectivity measures, the 20-year-old
rankings have become an unofficial kingmaker in the minds of many. One new
ranking, of college towns, even includes U.S. News rankings as one of its
measures of quality.

Like many critics of the magazine's annual "America's Best Colleges" edition,
Boyer says U.S. News rankings are troublesome because they promote the
perception that "there are literally only a few 'best' schools and only one
'very best' school."

Yet the nation boasts about 4,000 colleges, he says.

U.S. News encourages readers to look beyond rankings when selecting a college,
but Boyer dismisses that as irrelevant. "That's not what most people read," he
says. "What they see is the cover. And they see not all the colleges across the
page but No. 1 and No. 2."

But U.S. News executive editor Brian Kelly, who has heard it all before, defends
the rankings. He says they provide a starting point for families, but they are
"also expected to do (their) homework."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY (PHOTO ILLUSTRATION); PHOTO, B/W,
U.S. News & World Report; PHOTO, B/W, Kaplan/Newsweek; Ask the kids: The
Princeton Review's listing of the Best 351 Colleges" compiles its ratings from
student surveys.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              96 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                           February 2, 2012 Thursday

When rankings trump sense

BYLINE: The Monterey County Herald

SECTION: EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 496 words


Claremont McKenna College, an expensive, 1,300-student private school in
Southern California, has been falsifying SAT scores since 2005 to get better
rankings from for-profit ranking companies such as U.S. News & World Report.

In the search for greater prestige   a Top 10 ranking   an official at the
college inflated scores, and apparently nobody was checking up   at the college
or at the for-profit ranking companies.

The New York Times broke the story and reported the college's president e-mailed
staff and students on Monday, saying that "a senior administrator" had taken
responsibility for falsifying the scores and resigned.

For the college, where annual costs run $60,000 per student, high rankings bring
in strong applicants and donations. For the ranking companies, the dough
continues to roll in. What's to question?

Next to buying a home, choosing a college or university is one of the most
important decisions that families make. Students and their parents deserve
better.

They should be able to find out, from a reliable, publicly available source, key
data about colleges and universities.

They should be able to find objective, verifiable information such as tuition
and room and board costs, total enrollment, SAT scores and grade-point averages
of students accepted, first-year student retention, six-year graduation rates
and the like.

The National Center for Education Statistics at the U.S. Department of Education
should do a better job of making the common data that all colleges and
universities already submit each year much more accessible and user friendly to
students and parents.

The current for-profit rankings industry, launched by U.S. News and World Report
in 1983, has become highly incestuous, with colleges and universities providing
information about themselves, including ratings of their own and competing
institutions' "reputations," a highly subjective category that invites abuse.
Then those that garner top ranks can pay to display a "best colleges" badge.

The Claremont McKenna scandal isn't the first. Inside Higher Education has
reported others. In one, an official at Clemson University gave low scores to
other universities on the "reputational" survey to make Clemson look better. In
another, the University of Southern California submitted false information about
the number of faculty who were members of the National Academy of Engineering,
helping it to land among top engineering graduate schools.

Pamela Gann, president of Claremont McKenna College, told Inside Higher
Education in 2007 that "for-profit publications and rankings are what they are
in our free-market economy, with open competition enhanced through freedom of
speech and expression of ideas."

But colleges and universities don't have to sustain the industry and become
obsessed with rankings.

In the end, this is about some colleges and universities being so in thrall with
top rankings that they are willing to overlook truth and accuracy.

Sacramento Bee editorial

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                    Wilkes Barre Times Leader (Pennsylvania)

                            August 19, 2006 Saturday

Led by Scranton, grad school programs in area get big thumbs up from magazine

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 603 words


The University of Scranton is tied for ninth place among northern colleges that
offer master's degrees.

U.S. News & World Report's list of America's best colleges released Friday shows
Scranton's private Jesuit school tied with St. Joseph's University in
Philadelphia for the ninth spot on the list, which was topped by Villanova
University.


The annual survey is one of the magazine's most popular issues and the most
labor-intensive research project undertaken by the data-gathering staff,
according to Robert J. Morse, the magazine's director of data research.

Other area colleges on the list include King's College, 36; Marywood College,
46; College Misericordia, 56; Wilkes University, 68; and Bloomsburg University,
83. The schools are in the top tier of 557 colleges nationwide that grant
master's degrees.

The U.S. News research staff begins data compilation in December or January, and
the endeavor lasts until August.

Researchers rate the schools using a weighted formula that examines factors such
as freshman retention, graduation rates, alumni donations, financial resources
and student selectivity. Of all the variables, the formula gives the greatest
weight to peer assessments   what directors, presidents, chancellors and
administrators think about other colleges and universities.

Not all university and college officials take the magazine's rankings seriously.

College Misericordia President Michael MacDowell said he believes the rankings
are useful but said many factors are overlooked.

"The peer evaluations are not what I would call an optimal measuring structure.
I would like to see what students and parents think and look at measurements of
student satisfaction. The wise researcher looks at a number of other things."

Although he questions some of the methods used in the report, MacDowell admitted
that some information, including graduation and retention rates, is useful. Most
people fail to dig deep and look beyond the simple rankings, he said.

Wilkes University spokeswoman Christine Seitzinger said her school would prefer
that potential students visit the campus instead of taking the magazine survey
as gospel.

Even the president of the high-ranking University of Scranton said there is more
to a college than the numbers gathered by Morse and his staff.

"While we are honored to be ranked among the top 10 colleges in the north, we
also acknowledge those qualities of a Scranton education that these rankings do
not seek to capture," said the Rev. Scott R. Pilarz, president of the University
of Scranton.

There is a glaring contradiction in what academics say about the report's
validity and how colleges market the rankings, Morse said.

For example, half of the six colleges in Luzerne and Lackawanna counties
mentioned in the rankings sent press releases acknowledging their placement on
the list. Releases were issued by the University of Scranton, King's College and
College Misericordia   three of the four highest ranking area schools.

"In some cases, there is this hypocrisy where you have one arm of the school
that uses the rankings, then someone in the academic side privately criticizes
them," he said. "That's not our main audience. It's mainly for prospective
students or parents to help them to make a college decision and it gives them
information they wouldn't be able to obtain by themselves."

Despite the months of research that go into making the magazine's popular
edition, Morse agrees that parents and potential students should use the
magazine as a guide   in addition to other research   when deciding where to
spend thousands of dollars in tuition, room and board, and fees.

To view the comprehensive list of U.S. News & World Report's annual college
rankings, visit www.usnews.com. The company charges $14.95 to view a more
detailed database of college and university information.

Kris Wernowsky, a Times Leader staff writer, may be reached at 831-7329.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Wilkes Barre Times Leader
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times Higher Education Supplement

                                October 2, 2008

We know who's top - but now we must rate the rankings

BYLINE: Robert Johnson Jr

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 24 No. 1865

LENGTH: 814  words


Prospective students in the US need a consumer guide to make sense of the
plethora of college listings, argues Robert Johnson Jr.

Late August can be a trying time for college administrators. It is when US News
& World Report, the late-summer elephant on campus, publishes its rankings, and
officials at not-so-highly ranked schools have to offer explanations to their
constituents. Even if you work at a top-50 college such as mine, folks still
want to know why we can't be ranked even higher.

Once again, the results are out. And you know what? It hasn't been as big a deal
this year. We have had less explaining to do. This has had less to do with our
rank and more to do with the level of trust the public seem to have in the
rankings themselves.

For example, our trustees and alumni seem to know that colleges and universities
have learnt how to "game" the various rankings, ratings and surveys. Whether
through submitting idiosyncratic responses with qualifications beside them or by
joining institutional classifications just to enter their university in a
"lighter-weight" class, the tricks of the trade are not so secret and, really,
not all that tricky, and the pressure to be highly ranked appears to be abating.

Increasingly, rankings, ratings and surveys have become irrelevant - an
attractive nuisance that momentarily grabs our attention but never figures into
our strategy for delivering value to our students. In fact, less than half of
all college administrators fill out the peer-analysis section, which accounts
for a large part of US News' valuation. They see the reputation category of the
rankings as a mere beauty contest, with college presidents voting on the quality
of hundreds of schools with which they are completely unfamiliar.

Ironically, dissatisfaction with the rankings has not discouraged their
publication but rather proliferated their number, each added to the pile in the
hopes of attracting the attention lost by its predecessors. The latest, produced
by Forbes magazine, is so flawed as to be laughable, but there it is in print.
If families find rankings based on RateMyProfessors.com and Who's Who to be
credible, then more power to Forbes for its insight.

The good news is that these publications mean less each year to prospective
students and parents involved in choosing a college. Potential students know
that they are geared to sell magazines. Eyes are beginning to glaze over because
there are just so many rankings, ratings and survey guides available, and there
doesn't seem much difference from year to year or publication to publication.
The factual portions of these rankings are based on the same information that
schools provide to the Department of Education, but these facts never speak to a
family's desires and hopes. Those who create rankings never ask us for
information that would help people make the right college match.

What we need is a consumer guide to rankings. There are publications that take
the beauty contest out of the picture, encouraging schools not to seek students
as trophies or students to seek institutions as trophies.

In Colleges That Change Lives, Loren Pope, a former education editor of The New
York Times, writes about institutions that he believes transform students.
Pope's successor at The New York Times, Edward Fiske, publishes The Fiske Guide
to Colleges, which also provides useful information on about 300 colleges and
universities.

Then there are non-commercial sources such as U-Can (www.ucan-network.org) and
the Department of Education's College Navigator
(http://nces.ed.gov/collegenavigator). These publications and websites aim to
encourage a good match between student and institution.

It may seem odd to publish my views in Times Higher Education since it publishes
the Times Higher Education-QS World University Rankings. My hope is that the
Times Higher Education-QS rankings will stand on their own, and, as with the
US-only rankings, we can explain them to the few people who still care and work
to make our institutions better and not just more highly ranked.

But I know my colleagues and I will be anxious again next summer when the US
News rankings reappear. College and university presidents will pay attention to
them, not because of what can be gained for their institutions, but because of
what can be lost.

Rankings can hinder families trying to make good decisions by convincing them
that only trophy colleges are good enough for their children, resulting in
anxiety and sometimes disappointment. Every August, we try to minimise the
damage. This time around, it does not seem as exhausting as in past years. But
would someone remind me who benefits from this annual exercise?

Robert M. Johnson Jr is vice-president of Student and Information Services at
Rhodes College in Memphis, Tennessee.

The Times Higher Education-QS World University Rankings supplement will appear
next week.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 TSL Education Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 18, 2017 Monday

Wofford again among U.S. News best national liberal arts colleges Guide places
Wofford at #71 on list; #42 in best value college ranking

LENGTH: 914  words



Columbia: Wofford College has issued the following news release:

 Wofford College again improved its ranking among the top national liberal arts
colleges in U.S. News & World Report's 2018 edition of "America's Best Colleges,
" ranked at #71, up from #77 last year, according to the report released today
(Tuesday, Sept. 12, 2017).


Wofford also is ranked #42 on the list of "Best Value Schools" and #56 in the
"High School Counselor Rankings" among national liberal arts colleges.
U.S. News lists 229 institutions in its "national liberal arts college" rankings
; there are about 500 liberal arts colleges in the country.
"Wofford's continued recognition as one of the best institutions of higher
education in the country by U.S. News reflects our commitment to being a
premier, innovative and distinctive national liberal arts college defined by
excellence, engagement and transformation in preparing our students for
meaningful lives as citizens, leaders and scholars," President Nayef Samhat
says. "We consistently are recognized in the leading college guides and
publications for our academic rigor, outstanding faculty, study abroad
participation and successful graduates.

 "The recognition of Wofford as a best value college reflects our long-term
commitment to balancing two important priorities: offering an outstanding
residential academic program and focusing on affordability for a wide range of
students and their families," Samhat
The ranking system "rests on two pillars. The formula uses quantitative and
qualitative measures that education experts have proposed as reliable indicators
of academic quality, and it is based on our researched view of what matters in
education."
The category in which Wofford is ranked - national liberal arts colleges -
includes institutions that focus almost exclusively on undergraduate education,
awarding at least half of their degrees in the arts and sciences, the
publication says.
Most of the data U.S. News uses to arrive at its rankings is provided by the
colleges themselves through an annual statistical survey.
For the "best value" ranking, U.S. News takes into account the institution's
academic quality, as indicated by its 2018 U.S. News Best Colleges ranking, and
the 2016-2017 net cost of attendance for a student who received the average
level of need-based financial aid. The higher the quality of the program and the
lower the cost, the better the deal. Only institutions ranked in or near the top
half of their categories are included because U.S. News considers the most
significant values to be among colleges that are above average academically.
This year, there are 108 institutions in the best value national liberal arts
colleges.
For the ranking by high school counselors, U.S. News asks guidance counselors
from a nationwide sampling of public high schools in the U.S. News Best High
Schools rankings that were gold, silver or bronze winners as well as from the
largest private independent schools nationwide to tell them which national
universities and national liberal arts colleges they think offer the best
undergraduate education to their students. The three most recent years of survey
results, from spring 2015, spring 2016 and spring 2017, were averaged to compute
the score used in the ranking. There are 215 institutions in the ranking this
year.
Wofford continues to be included in national college guides for its outstanding
academic program, its value and its commitment to economic diversity.
In May, for the third consecutive year - since the list first appeared - Wofford
was named to the New York Times' "Top Colleges Doing the Most for the American
Dream," a ranking called the College Access Index that includes the most
economically diverse colleges in the country. Wofford ranks at #103 on the list
of 171 public and private colleges and universities, which bases its ranking on
the number of lower- and middle-income students - those eligible for Pell Grants
- who enroll and the price the college charges them.
Earlier in the year, Wofford was included in The Princeton Review's "Colleges
That Pay You Back: The 200 Schools that Give You the Best Bang for Your Tuition
Buck." The list recognizes institutions for their outstanding academics as well
as their affordability.
The Princeton Review recently featured Wofford in the 2018 edition of its
flagship college guide "The Best 382 Colleges," the nation's best institutions
for undergraduate education.
Wofford continues to be among "America's Top Colleges" by Forbes magazine, a
list Wofford has been on since its inception. Wofford is #140 on the list and is
#26 among the best in the South. Wofford also is #57 among Top Liberal Arts
Colleges, #99 among Top Private Colleges and #94 among Grateful Grads, a list of
institutions whose alumni give back to the college.
Wofford also was ranked #145 in Forbes' "America's Best Value Colleges," an
index of "300 schools that deliver the best bang for the tuition buck based on
tuition costs, school quality, post-grad earnings, student debt and graduation
rates."
In July, Wofford was included in Fiske Guide to Colleges 2018, another
prestigious guidebook that profiles colleges and universities on a broad range
of subjects, including student body, academics, social life, financial aid,
campus setting, housing, food and extracurricular activities.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                      August 19, 2005 Friday Home Edition

Tech, Emory pace state in new ranking

BYLINE: ANDREA JONES

SECTION: Metro News; Pg. 1D;

LENGTH: 430 words


Georgia Tech, the state's only public institution to consistently place among
the nation's top 50 universities, climbed several spots in the 2006 U.S. News &
World Report college guide.

Emory University and the University of Georgia held steady in the rankings,
which hit newsstands today.

Tech was ranked ninth among the nation's top public universities, up from 10th
in last year's guide, and 37th overall, up four slots.

"I'm pleased to see that excellence continue, despite the challenges that we
face in today's competitive higher education marketplace," said Jean-Lou
Chameau, Tech's provost and vice president for academic affairs.

Emory University was ranked 20th in the nation, the same spot it earned in the
2005 guide.

The University of Georgia held its spot as 58th in the nation and 19th among
public colleges and universities, tied with the University of Pittsburgh.

The state's smaller colleges also got a nod from the popular college guide.

Georgia College & State University in Milledgeville climbed three spots in a
category that rates public colleges in the South, from 18th in 2005 to 15th in
2006, a college spokesman said.

Columbus State University, Clayton State University and Agnes Scott College
earned top marks for racial diversity on campus. Agnes Scott also ranked 55th in
the nation among liberal arts colleges.

LaGrange College ranked seventh overall in a list of Southern comprehensive
colleges --- schools that focus on undergraduate studies. Mercer University
ranked ninth in the South among colleges offering master's degrees but few, if
any, doctoral programs.

College presidents say they have to pay attention to the rankings because they
are so widely distributed through the media. They dislike them because they say
the methodology unfairly benefits some institutions more than others.

In a recent interview, Berry College President Scott Colley predicted this
year's ranking --- second to Berea College in Kentucky among undergraduate
comprehensive colleges in the South. Berea will always be No. 1 in the category,
he said, because of the methodology U.S. News uses to do the rankings.

Colley said one year U.S. News changed the way it categorized colleges and moved
Berea into a different category from Berry. That year, Berry was No. 1 among
undergraduate comprehensive colleges in the South. "I told people my life was no
different then than when we were ranked No. 2," Colley said.

The rankings will be posted at www.usnews.com today.

--- Staff writer Kelly Simmons contributed to this article.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HIGHLY RATED How three Georgia schools fared in the 2006 U.S. News &
World Report college guide. 20: Emory University's national ranking in the
survey. 37: Georgia Tech's national ranking. Tech ranked ninth among public
universities. 58: University of Georgia's national ranking. UGA ranked 19th
among public universities.

                Copyright 2005 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              101 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 16, 2016 Monday

Lasalgaon-based college gets two ISO rankings

BYLINE: Chaitanya Deshpande

SECTION: NASHIK

LENGTH: 222 words


NASHIK: Lasalgaon-based Nutan Vidya Prasarak Mandal's Arts, Commerce and Science
College, popularly known as Lasalgaon College, has received two ISO rankings.
One of the rankings is for environment management system while the other is for
qualitative management, informed college Principal Dr Dinesh Naik.The college
has paid special attention to environment conservation and has conducted various
drives for the purpose. Plantation is one of such drives through which various
trees have been planted in the college campus. Last year the college planted
1,000 oleander trees. It also has a botanical garden. Taking note of all such
initiatives the college has been given ISO 1400/2004 ranking which is given for
Environmental Management System (EMS).This is the first college in the country
to achieve this ranking, At the same time, the college has been awarded with ISO
9001/2008 ranking for qualitative management, informed the principal.NVPM
chairman Changdevrao Holkar, general secretary Govindrao Holkar, management
committee members, professors, non-teaching staff members and even students have
played an important role in getting the ISO rankings, said principal Naik. He
added that the college has earlier received NAC A Grade and Savitribai Phule
University, Pune's best college award.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 5, 2005, Saturday

IRISH COLLEGES TOP100 FAILURE

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 69 words


NONE of Ireland's colleges have secured a place in the top 100 of this year's
World University Rankings.

Trinity College has been placed at 111th, a drop of 24 places since last year.

The other six Irish universities were all outside the top 200.

The World University Rankings are compiled by The Times Higher Education
Supplement in Britain and are based largely on "peer review" by academics.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.


                              103 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                          September 22, 2016 Thursday

Irish universities fail to make top tier of new global rankings for first time;

Trinity College Dublin omitted from rankings due to data blunder

BYLINE: Carl O'Brien

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 652 words


Irish universities have failed to rank in the top-200 for the first time in the
latest set of influential global rankings.

Trinity College Dublin (TCD), traditionally Ireland's top-ranking college, has
been omitted from the Times Higher Education rankings at short notice, after it
emerged it supplied incorrect data.

The error is understood to have been spotted when the college - which ranked in
160th place last year - fell even further in this year's rankings.

The data error - which sources insist was an innocent mistake - is likely to
have adversely affected its ranking position both this year and last.

The college is likely to feature in a revised league table later this year.

Funding cuts

 University College Dublin (UCD) has slipped down from 176 place into the
201-250 band. It now appears alongside the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland
(RCSI) and National University of Ireland (NUI) Galway, both of which gained
ground from their rankings in the 250-300 band last year.

The slippage among some of Ireland's top-ranking universities is likely to focus
fresh attention on the funding of higher education which has fallen
significantly over recent years.

Phil Baty, editor of the Times Higher Education world university rankings, said
the fact that Ireland's best universities were struggling was bad news for the
country.

"While the root of the problem is the increased competition among the world's
elite universities, particularly those in Asia, it seems clear that the major
funding cuts endured by Ireland's universities are causing problems."

There were no changes for other Irish universities, with University College Cork
(UCC) and NUI Maynooth remaining in the 351-400 band. Dublin City University
(DCU) and University of Limerick ranked in the 401-500 and 501-600 bands
respectively, while Dublin Institute of Technology (DIT) ranked in the 601-800
band.

On the issue of TCD's data error, a spokesman for the college declined to
comment except to say it was looking forward to receiving its correct rankings.
Sources say the error - understood to relate to the college's funding - was
spotted in recent days.

Trevor Barratt, Times Higher Education's managing editor, said the submission
error is likely to have given them a lower ranking than would otherwise be the
case. "We have decided to take Trinity out of the rankings, while we conduct a
review of their data and, should it be necessary, recalculate their position for
the past two years," he said.

Mixed reaction

 Irish university presidents have given a mixed reaction to the rankings. UCD
president Andrew Deeks said the college has consistently performed in areas
under its control. "These rankings show that we have maintained strong output
against a backdrop of falling State investment," he said.

In crisis

 President of NUI Galway Dr Jim Browne said its rise was linked to working "the
best we can with limited funding to support activities that are having a real
impact globally", while Professor Cathal Kelly, chief executive of the RCSI,
welcomed its elevated position as a sign of its strategic investment .

However, president of NUI Maynooth Professor Philip Nolan said that, despite its
"outstanding performance", the wider university sector was in crisis and accused
the Government of being too slow to act.

"This inaction threatens the very future of our university system. The Irish
university system is, right now, world class, but it won't be for long," he
said. The overall rankings, which feature a total of almost 1,000 universities
from 79 different countries, indicate that the University of Oxford is the
world's top university.

California Institute of Technology featured in second place, while Stanford
University was in third.

In Europe, apart from Germany and the Netherlands, most countries have been
losing ground while Asian countries, such as China, Hong Kong and South Korea,
are climbing up the rankings.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 29, 2016 Thursday

Washington: Senator Coons calls on U.S. News & World Report to include
accessibility and affordability in college rankings

LENGTH: 1258  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Office of the Senator Christopher Coons has issued the following
news release:



 U.S. Senator Chris Coons (D-Del.) today called on U.S. News & World Report
(USNWR), the leading college ranking source, to change its current rankings
methodology to include measures of access and affordability. Senator Coons
criticizes USNWR for fostering competition among colleges that has shifted the
focus away from enrolling low-income students.





 "I am concerned that your current ranking system fails to factor in the extent
to which colleges and universities admit low-income students," wrote Senator
Coons. "Overlooking low-income student access deprives applicants of critical
data and creates perverse incentives for schools to create barriers to entry for
high-achieving, low-income students... The current rankings also reward schools
for how exclusive they are, but not how inclusive they are."



 Senator Coons also writes, "the rankings should include affordability metrics,
such as the net price for low-income students. Such changes would likely cause
schools to shift their priorities to efforts that would improve outcomes for
low-income students."



 A full PDF of the letter can be found here: http://bit.ly/2dCDERy.



 Senator Coons recently introduced legislation, along with Republican Senator
Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), to incentivize access for low-income students and
increase graduation rates for all students. The Access Success and Persistence
In Reshaping Education (ASPIRE) Act will spur some of the nation's more
selective institutions to improve access for low-income students and will devote
resources to help boost completion rates at institutions that serve
disproportionately high numbers of low-income students.







 Full text of Senator Coons' letter to USNWR is below:



 September 29, 2016



 Mr. Brian Kelly

 Editor and Chief Content Officer

 U.S. News & World Report

 1050 Thomas Jefferson St, N.W.

 Washington, DC 20007



 Dear Mr. Kelly:



 I am writing to raise several issues associated with the methodologies and
rationale the U.S. News & World Report uses for its college rankings. As our
nation's high school students begin applying to college, many will look to your
rankings to help inform major decisions about their future. I am sure
considerable work goes into the challenge of making your rankings as fair and
helpful to students as possible, so that students have information to help them
choose the institutions that are right for them. That said, I am concerned that
your current ranking system fails to factor in the extent to which colleges and
universities admit low-income students. Overlooking low-income student access
deprives applicants of critical data and creates perverse incentives for schools
to create barriers to entry for high-achieving, low-income students.



 While your current rankings reward schools for how many students they graduate,
they do not adequately account for the socioeconomic status of the students they
educate. College completion rates are important, but without an exclusive metric
on low-income student access, such as the percentage of enrolled Pell-grant
recipients, they may still mask broader inequities. While the schools in your
top 25 have impressive graduation rates, their median Pell recipient enrollment
rate is just over 14 percent, compared to a national average of 39 percent.
Without giving greater emphasis to Pell enrollment rates, our most
well-resourced, highest-rated schools have less incentive to admit low-income
students who often require more resources to be successful. This also means that
schools that do enroll high rates of Pell students, but struggle to graduate
them, will not see their efforts adequately accounted for in your rankings.



 The current rankings also reward schools for how exclusive they are, but not
how inclusive they are. By factoring in acceptance rates, the rankings may
incentivize schools to cap enrollments instead of expanding slots to enroll more
qualified low-income students. The rankings also effectively penalize schools
who try to innovate with new admissions criteria, such as making SAT and ACT
scores optional for admissions. Many schools have found that grades are an
equally powerful predictor of college success compared to test scores. Some
schools, like the University of Delaware, are making test scores an optional
part of applications. Others, like Hampshire College, eliminated them all
together. For their efforts, Hampshire College was excluded from your rankings
and the University of Delaware would have the weight of their test scores
reduced if more than a quarter of their students did not submit test scores.
Considering Hampshire's enrollment of low-income students increased after doing
away with test scores, it is troubling that schools trying to improve their
low-income student accessibility are not credited for their efforts or even
penalized according to your rankings. College rankings should never be at odds
with student access.



 The rankings also reward schools for their alumni's generosity and how well
they pay their faculty, but do not measure how well they make college affordable
for low-income students. These rankings have contributed to the much-discussed "
college arms race," where schools have invested in merit aid and amenities to
attract students with the highest test scores in order to boost their standing
in the rankings. According to a report by New America, some schools have risen
in your rankings by pouring their resources into merit aid for students with the
highest test scores, who often come from families that can well afford to pay
for college. As a result, need-based aid has been neglected by these schools,
leaving well-qualified, low-income students behind as schools work to rise in
the rankings. Schools must make difficult choices with limited resources, yet
too often investment in low-income students is at odds with increasing their
position in these rankings. To reduce this conflict, the rankings should include
affordability metrics, such as the net price for low-income students. Such
changes would likely cause schools to shift their priorities to efforts that
would improve outcomes for low-income students.



 Beyond the rankings, an even easier fix that could increase access and not
obscure affordability would be to more accurately and accessibly list data on
the true cost of attendance for universities. While many of the top schools on
your list have shockingly high "sticker prices," many also offer deep tuition
discounts for low-income students. However, the rankings prominently display
only the high sticker prices. Students that do want to know the real cost must
navigate a maze of links only to find financial aid information hidden behind a
pay wall. These barriers may mislead and harm low-income students, who will see
only tuition prices well over $40,000 per year and unfortunately conclude they
cannot afford to attend a college that costs two to three times their families'
annual income. Removing the sticker price and providing free access to the
financial aid data would open up more possibilities for low-income students.



 I look forward to your thoughtful consideration of the issues raised in this
letter and respectfully request that you consider making changes to your future
rankings. I am eager to review your response and would welcome a meeting to
discuss your college ranking system.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education

                           September 29, 2006 Friday

Researcher Proposes Basing College Rankings on Students' Success

BYLINE: ERIC HOOVER

SECTION: STUDENTS; Pg. 45 Vol. 53 No. 6

LENGTH: 997 words


Colleges and universities have the raw materials with which to build a better
rankings system, but many institutions do not want to abandon the current model.
As a result, commercial guides to colleges continue to thrive, even though they
provide little useful information to students.

So concludes a new report on college rankings by Education Sector, a nonprofit
think tank based in Washington. The report, "College Rankings Reformed: The Case
for a New Order in Higher Education," calls for a more sophisticated way of
measuring how well colleges educate their students. The system would emphasize
the quality of teaching and would put institutions' graduation rates in context,
assessing not only what students learned in college but also their success after
earning their degrees.

The "student based" rankings would provide prospective college applicants with
better measures of quality than those that U.S. News & World Report uses to
compile its annual college guide, which rewards institutions for their "fame,
wealth, and exclusivity," says Kevin Carey, research and policy manager at
Education Sector, who wrote the report.

He believes that his system would also create more incentives for colleges to
improve undergraduate instruction and would reward institutions that succeed in
doing so.

In his report, Mr. Carey argues that several recent trends give colleges the
information they need to quantify the seemingly unquantifiable in terms of
learning and postcollege success. One such factor is the growing popularity of
the National Survey of Student Engagement, which provides data on the quality of
teaching and learning at some 1,100 participating colleges in the United States
and Canada.

That survey, known as Nessie, has the potential to provide the framework for a
more meaningful rankings system, one that would better reflect the achievements
of colleges instead of confirming their reputations, says Mr. Carey.

A Different Scale

Consider Miles College, in Alabama, and Jackson State University, in
Mississippi. Both of those historically black institutions score low in the U.S.
News rankings, in part because they serve many low-income students, who score
lower on standardized tests than their more privileged peers do, and because the
two institutions spend relatively little on each student.

In the Nessie survey, however, Mr. Carey found that both Miles and Jackson State
score well above the national average in several key categories, including those
that measure the frequency of outside-the-classroom discussions of course work
among students and professors, and the promptness of feedback that students
receive from instructors.

"Conventional measures," his report says, "rank Miles and Jackson State below
par; Nessie tells exactly the opposite story."

Mr. Carey proposes basing one-fifth of a college's ranking on its quality of
teaching, as measured by its score in Nessie's five main categories: academic
rigor, the prevalence of "active and collaborative learning," the quality of
interaction among students and faculty members, opportunities for enriching
educational experiences, and the supportiveness of the campus environment.

The other components of Mr. Carey's theoretical rankings are:

* Learning. This measure is based, in part, on the results of the Collegiate
Learning Assessment, which hundreds of colleges use to test students on their
ability to write long essays, analyze documents, and assess arguments. The test,
which compares the scores of freshmen with those of seniors, measures how well
students develop their analytical skills in college. (By contrast, existing
rankings rate colleges according to the standardized-test scores of incoming
freshmen.) Other components of this ranking include the results of outcome-based
accreditation processes and of "culminating projects" that reveal students'
mastery of a given subject.

* Retention and graduation. Mr. Carey proposes ranking institutions according to
the difference between their actual retention and graduation rates and their
statistically predicted graduation rates, so as not to penalize institutions
that enroll large numbers of low-income and first-generation college students,
or students from underperforming high schools.

* Life after college. Instead of measuring alumni-donation rates, as U.S. News
does, Mr. Carey proposes measuring the success of students who go on to
postgraduate education; the financial earnings of a college's graduates in a
particular field compared with typical earnings in that field; the percentage of
students who get jobs in their field of study and pass professional-licensure
examinations; and the satisfaction of alumni as revealed by studies like the
Collegiate Results Survey, which asks graduates a range of questions about their
occupations, job skills, physical fitness, and civic engagement, among other
things.

As Mr. Carey concedes, one hitch in discussing alternative ways of evaluating
colleges is that many institutions have refused to publicize data from Nessie,
the Collegiate Learning Assessment, and alumni surveys. And higher education as
a whole has resisted rankings-based accountability, which would require every
college to reveal specific information about itself. Given that, he believes
that an educationally sound way of measuring college quality is not possible
unless the federal government were to create a vast, centralized rankings system
-- like the controversial proposed "unit record" data system -- through
legislative action.

"The biggest obstacle to liberating higher education from the tyranny of the
flawed U.S. News system is higher education itself," Mr. Carey wrote in his
report. "Some objections are grounded in reasonable but addressable concerns
about the accuracy of information. Others go deeper, reflecting both a strong
desire for autonomy and a basic instinct to preserve the status quo."

Education Sector planned to publish the report on its Web site
(http://www.educationsector.org) last week.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             August 22, 2003 Friday

UC Berkeley remains No. 1 on annual ranking of public universities, Stanford
tied for 5th

BYLINE: Michelle Maitre - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 677 words


University of California, Berkeley retained its spot as the nation's top-ranked
public university in U.S. News & World Report's annual college ranking, although
it shares top billing with the University of Virginia, which ranked second in
the last survey.

The magazine's "America's Best Colleges" rankings are based on a formula that
includes graduation and retention rates, faculty resources, peer review and
other factors to determine the standings.

Universities are ranked in a variety of categories.

UC Berkeley and Virginia tied for No. 1 on the listing of the top 50 public
universities. On the listing that includes both public and private institutions,
the campuses tied at 21st place.

Marie Felde, UC Berkeley's director of media relations, said the campus has been
at the top of the public ranking for at least the past decade.

"As in the past, Berkeley has ranked as the No. 1 public university in most of
the surveys," she said.

For the fourth consecutive year, Princeton University was ranked as the nation's
top college, a rating it shared this year with Harvard University, which was
second last year.

Yale University ranks third and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology is
fourth.

Stanford University tied for fifth with three other colleges - the California
Institute of Technology, Duke University and the University of Pennsylvania.

"We've ranked anywhere from No. 1 to No. 6 in recent years," said Stanford
University spokeswoman Elaine Ray, who said the campus focuses its efforts on
undergraduate education. "We don't lament when we are lower and we don't
celebrate when we're higher, we just try to focus on undergraduate education."

For the first time, U.S. News ranked universities from 1 to 150. Third and
fourth-tier schools - those below the 150 mark - are unranked. Last year, the
magazine published a top 50 listing, and left second, third and fourth-tier
schools unranked.

UC campuses throughout the state continue to earn high rankings on the list of
public universities, with eight campuses appearing in the top 50. Six campuses
are listed among the top 12.

"UC dominates the public university list," said UC spokesman Hanan Eisenman. "No
other state even comes close to that."

The rankings will be published in Monday's edition of the magazine, and the
rankings will be available today on its Web site, www.usnews.com

The rankings are both popular and controversial. Critics have long contended
that parents and high school students rely too heavily on the rankings in
choosing schools, and that colleges gear some of their efforts - such as
admissions - toward getting high rankings.

"We don't like the notion that some colleges are acting in response to the
rankings," said Brian Kelly, managing editor of U.S. News. "We think that's a
shame."

Claire Van Ummersen, vice president of the Office of Women in Higher Education
for the American Council on Education, said officials have become more accepting
of the rankings since they debuted 20 years ago.

"They've been around for a long while and I think people have become more
acquainted with them," she said. "While not every institution is happy with
them, you do have some that think they're great. ... To some extent, that's
determined by where they are in the ranking."

Officials cautioned the rankings are only one factor prospective students should
consider when selecting a college.

"It's a very individual decision," said Stanford's Ray. "One college does not
fit all and we hope students will look at the college that best suits them,
rather than looking at the rankings."

In other rankings, Mills College in Oakland tied for 66th among the nation's
best liberal arts colleges and University of San Francisco tied for 117th among
on the list of the nation's best universities. Among schools that grant master's
degrees, Santa Clara University ranked second in the western region, while
Sonoma State University tied for 30th.

The Associated Press contributed to this report. Contact Michelle Maitre at
mmaitre@angnewspapers.com .

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              107 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                     PR.com

                       July 27, 2017 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

CyberSecurityDegrees.com Unveils 2017 Online Cyber Security Degree Rankings

BYLINE: Cyber Security Degrees

LENGTH: 679  words


New Orleans, LA,  July 27, 2017 --(PR.com)-- CyberSecurityDegrees.com, a cyber
security resource and academic ranking site, has recently released their annual
rankings of online cyber security and information assurance-related degree
programs. Programs are ranked according to their degree level in rankings
specifically for associates in cyber security, bachelors in cyber security,
masters in cyber security, or doctoral programs in cyber security.

While undergraduate and graduate programs were ranked according to slightly
differing methodologies, all methodologies are crafted with the intent to show
three major facets of online cyber security degree programs: academic quality,
affordability and return on investment, and student satisfaction.

These metrics have been honed by our team's collective experience of more than a
decade of online education coverage experience. Particularly for
non-traditional, adult, or students who are working full-time, highlighting of
value and support services in a degree are key.

A sample methodology from our ranking of the best online associates in cyber
security is as follows:

--Academic Quality (33.33%):

--Is the program an NSA / Department of Homeland Security designated program?
(50%)

--The student faculty ratio of the program being surveyed (50%)

--Affordability and Return on Investment (33.33%):

--The in-state tuition rank (weighted for the percentage of the nation in this
particular state) (33.33%)

--The out-of-state tuition rank (weighted for the percentage of the nation who
aren't in the state of the school)(33.33%)

--The percentage of students receiving financial aid (33.33%)

--Student Satisfaction (33.33%):

--The percentage of students who graduate within 6 years of matriculation (50%)

--The first year student retention rate (50%)

To find all of their rankings in online cyber security and information
assurance-related fields, please visit https://cybersecuritydegrees.com/rankings
/

Online cyber security degree programs ranked in CyberSecurityDegrees.com 2017
rankings include (in alphabetical order):

--Best Online Associates in Cyber Security

Bismarck State College

California Institute of Arts & Technology

Cuyamaca College

Dakota State University

Minnesota State College-Southeast Technical

National College

Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology-Okmulgee

Southeast Community College

University of Maine at Fort Kent

Western Nebraska Community College

--Best Online Bachelors in Cyber Security

American Public University System

Baker College

Bellevue University

Capella University

Charter Oak State College

Colorado Technical University

Dakota State University

Franklin University

Indian River State College

Kennesaw State University

Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology-Okmulgee

Rasmussen College

Regent University

Salem International University

University of Illinois at Springfield

University of Maine at Augusta

University of Maine at Fort Kent

University of Maryland-University College

Western Governor's University

Wilmington University

--Best Online Masters in Cyber Security

Capitol Technology University

Champlain College

Colorado Technical University

Dakota State University

Davenport University

Drexel University

Fort Hays State University

Jacksonville State University

Kentucky State University

Lewis University

National University

Norwich University

Nova Southeastern University

Our Lady of the Lake University-San Antonio

Regis University

Southern Arkansas University Main Campus

University of Detroit Mercy

University of Idaho

University of the Cumberlands

Utica College

--Best Online Doctoral Programs in Cyber Security

Capella University

Capitol Technology University

Colorado Technical University

Dakota State University

North Central University

University of Fairfax

Schools ranking at more than one degree level include Dakota State University (
ranking in four rankings) and Colorado Technical University (three rankings).
Schools that placed in two separate ranking categories include Capella
University, Capitol Technology University, Oklahoma State University Institute
of Technology-Okmulgee, and University of Maine at Fort Kent.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2017 PR.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                            August 6, 2015 Thursday

New College gets more recognition

BYLINE: Shelby Webb shelby.webb@heraldtribune.com

SECTION: B; FL News; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 254 words


PRINCETON REVIEW

SARASOTA - New College earned several top marks in the Princeton Review's 2015
college rankings released this week.

Florida's public honors college was named the "Easiest Campus to Get Around" in
the nation, fourth for "Most Politically Active Students," 11th for "Most
Liberal Students" and "12th for "Most LGBTQ Friendly."

The Princeton Review, which provides test-prep and college advice, is one of
several groups to publish college rankings. Perhaps the most popular is the U.S.
News & World Report's, which ranked New College as the 87th best liberal arts
schools in the country.

The Princeton Review rankings also highlighted quirky aspects of the college,
ranking it 13th for "Birkenstock-wearing, tree-hugging, clove-smoking
vegetarians," third for "Nobody Plays Intramural Sports" and seventh for
"There's a Game?"

It ranked ninth for "Is it Food?"

Although reviewers did not give schools overall rankings, the Princeton Review
said New College scored 94 points out of 100 in academics. Professors at the
school were also rated highly, scoring 97 out of 100 for "interesting
professors" and 91 out of 100 for "accessible professors."

In February, the test-prep and college-advice group also named New College as
one of 209 "Colleges that Pay You Back," which measured the value of more than
200 institutions.

"The combination of NCF's incredibly low tuition and rigorous, individualized
academic program make it a tremendous value for both in-state and out-of-state
students," Princeton Review staff wrote.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PRINCETON REVIEW SARASOTA - New College earned several top marks in the
Princeton Review's 2015 college rankings released this week. Florida's public
honors college was named the "Easiest Campus to Get Around" in the nation,
fourth for "Most Politically Active Students," 11th for "Most Liberal Students"
and "12th for "Most LGBTQ Friendly." The Princeton Review, which provides
test-prep and college advice, is one of several groups to publish college
rankings. Perhaps the most popular is the U.S. News & World Report's, which
ranked New College as the 87th best liberal arts schools in the country.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education

                            September 7, 2007 Friday

The 'U.S. News' Rankings Roll On

BYLINE: ERIC HOOVER

SECTION: STUDENTS; Pg. 45 Vol. 54 No. 2

LENGTH: 1216 words


As usual, U.S. News & World Report's annual college rankings offered a heavy
dose of déjà vu when they arrived in August. Princeton University topped the
list of best colleges, just as it did last year, while Harvard remained in
second and Yale again took third. And the same institutions as last year rounded
out the top dozen spots.

One statistic was new: The overall response rate to the magazine's controversial
reputational survey plunged to its lowest level ever, a possible sign that
organized criticism of the rankings has sunk in.

The U.S. News survey is weathering a season of intense scorn. Some college
presidents have publicly renounced the rankings and vowed to stop touting them
in their promotional materials. In September dozens of higher-education
officials plan to meet at Yale to discuss plans for an alternative to so-called
commercial rankings that would provide "educationally relevant" data about
colleges and universities. "Rankings use a rigid formula, which can be highly
misleading," says Jeffrey Brenzel, Yale's dean of undergraduate admissions and
the conference's host, "but they currently fill a vacuum."

It's true that the U.S. News rankings are Coke in a world without Pepsi. That is
unlikely to change. One reason is that many presidents and admissions deans
continue to support the survey, or at least tolerate it. Despite the passionate
rebukes of rankings from some presidents, plenty of others believe academe has
far bigger problems than top-50 lists.

Looking back a decade reveals that anti-rankings revolutions are difficult to
start. Rewind to 1997, when Gerhard Casper thumbed his nose at the U.S. News
survey. Mr. Casper, then president of Stanford University, publicly called the
rankings misleading and inaccurate. He announced that he would stop filling out
the reputational survey, which accounts for 25 percent of a college's score.

Mr. Casper also said he would give prospective students a different way to
evaluate colleges, data that would not rate colleges like cars or toasters. He
directed Stanford to publish various statistics -- including its tuition, class
sizes, and graduation rates -- on its Web site. He urged other college
presidents to follow his lead. Then he waited. "Some might have viewed me as Don
Quixote," he recalled recently.

As the leader of one of the nation's top-ranked institutions, Mr. Casper sparked
much talk but little action. A Stanford spokesman at the time told The Chronicle
that while other college administrators shared Mr. Casper's concern about
rankings, they could not reach a consensus on "what should be done."

Ten years later, consensus remains elusive. The man who is now trying to build
it is Lloyd Thacker, director of the Education Conservancy and sponsor of next
month's conference at Yale. The former high-school counselor has urged colleges
to look beyond rankings and the competitive strategies some institutions use to
game them. "We've got a chance," Mr. Thacker says, "to push back against a force
that's hurting us collectively."

His challenge is to persuade individual colleges, with many different pedigrees
and priorities, to act collectively. This year Mr. Thacker circulated a letter
that urged college presidents not to complete the U.S. News reputational survey
and to stop touting their place in the annual college guide. More than 60
presidents have signed the letter­­­ -- enough to field a few football teams,
but a fraction of the 1,000 who received copies of it. And there are notable
absences: The letter contains not one signature of a president of a top-25
national university or liberal-arts college, as ranked by U.S. News.

That's not a coincidence. As the president of one highly ranked liberal-arts
college told The Chronicle, "If you're at the top of the heap, why do you want
to do something that might threaten that?"

Others presidents said deciding to publicly criticize the rankings -- or not to­
-- was a complex public-relations move. After all, many alumni and trustees like
the bottom-line affirmations of quality that rankings provide, and keeping them
happy is part of a president's job.

William D. Adams, president of Colby College, said he was sympathetic to Mr.
Thacker's letter, but needed to discuss it further with the college's board
members, whom he described as having an array of opinions about U.S. News.
(Colby ranked 22nd in this year's list of liberal-arts colleges). "It's not just
a personal or presidential matter," he said.

Although the letter has inspired many closed-door discussions, it's easy to read
too much into the list of who's signed it and who has not. Officials at some
high-profile colleges, including Princeton, have said they did not sign it
because they were already observing its requirements. In contrast, a handful of
colleges that added their names to the letter continue to brag about their U.S.
News standing. For instance, Kenyon College's Web site states that, according to
the magazine, it is "among the top liberal-arts colleges in the nation." The Web
sites of Gettysburg and Ursinus Colleges note the same.

A Slew of Alternatives

It's possible that Mr. Thacker's letter did have one quantifiable effect on this
year's U.S. News results. Over all, 51 percent of colleges and universities
completed the reputational survey, a drop from 58 percent last year. Among
liberal-arts colleges, the number fell to 56 percent from 69 percent. U.S. News
said that the response rate was sufficient to provide a reliable survey, but
that the magazine would find other ways of measuring reputation if more and more
colleges stopped rating peer institutions.

Nobody believes the rankings will fade away. Therefore many critics have turned
their attention to alternatives that would complement the magazine's ratings. In
response to federal calls for greater transparency, several education
associations are building their own databases. Next month, for example, the
National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities plans to unveil
UCan, an in-depth online information system for prospective students and their
parents. So far, nearly 400 colleges have agreed to provide a range of
institutional data to the Web site.

Meanwhile, the Annapolis Group, which represents liberal-arts col-leges, is
considering whether to develop a template of its own. "Good capitalism applauds
this," William G. Durden, president of Dickinson College, says of the many
rankings alternatives under discussion.

But it's not yet clear how -- or if -- these and other banks of data would fit
together. Some officials worry that consumers will end up with a confusing mess
of overlapping statistics, sponsored by an alphabet soup of different groups.
That might make the U.S. News rankings seem all the more appealing.

"Raw data is not going to be very useful to most consumers," says Brian Kelly,
editor of U.S. News. "It's not going to be in a form that's in context."

Mr. Casper, the former Stanford president, doubts that anything could capture
the attention of students and parents the way U.S. News does. But he thinks
colleges could benefit from a frank discussion of what can and cannot be
measured in education.

He has no illusions, however, about the enduring appeal of the rankings. "The
quantification of society," he said, "we're not going to stop."

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2007 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                          September 10, 2015 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

HIGHER EDUCATION;
Georgia schools among top colleges in rankings

BYLINE: Janel Davis; Staff

SECTION: METRO NEWS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 556 words



HIGHLIGHT: Emory, Tech, UGA named among top 61. U.S. News listings often help
students, parents with their selections.


Three Georgia colleges are among the nation's top schools, according to the
latest rankings by U.S. News and World Report.

Emory, Georgia Tech and the University of Georgia made the list of best national
universities in the latest edition of the annual college rankings, released
Wednesday.

Those were the only three Georgia schools on the list ranking public and private
schools together.

Emory retained its 21st-place ranking, tied with Georgetown University. Georgia
Tech ranked 36th and UGA shared a 61st-place ranking with four schools including
Clemson and Syracuse universities. All three Georgia schools had freshman
retention rates of at least 94 percent and graduation rates last year of at
least 82 percent.

This year's edition includes data on almost 1,800 colleges and rankings of 1,376
schools, scoring them on up to 16 academic measures.

Among the top 30 public universities, Georgia Tech again ranked seventh, and UGA
was 21st, tied again with Clemson and Purdue University-West Lafayette.

Georgia schools also ranked high in other categories. Spelman again ranked first
among national historically black colleges and universities. Morehouse College
and Clark Atlanta University each fell one position but remained in the top 20
HBCUs with fourth- and 19th-place rankings, respectively. Mercer was again the
eighth-best regional university for the Southern region, and the second-best
value school for the same region. Covenant College in Lookout Mountain fell
three spots to ninth among best regional colleges, while LaGrange College moved
up one position to 12th.

Georgia State University ranked fifth and Georgia Tech tied for 13th among
national universities in a new U.S. News ranking this year of most innovative
schools. Georgia State's President Mark Becker was named one of the country's
most innovative college leaders last month by Washington Monthly magazine.
Spelman ranked 10th among national liberal arts colleges in the same category.

The rankings are coveted and highly touted by colleges and have long been used
by some parents and students to compare schools before enrolling.

Some in the education industry claim the rankings are losing their mojo.

"The focus on rankings is misguided and out-of-date," said Ryan Craig, a
founding managing director of University Ventures, a venture capital firm
focused on higher education. In the time of rising college tuition and student
debt, students are more focused on costs, majors offered and whether they will
be able to get a job once they graduate, Craig said.

"Universities for years have played games with factors that go into ratings, and
that needs to stop," he said. "Instead they should be more focused on the
factors that really matter to students."

Best national Universities

1. Princeton University (NJ)

2. Harvard University (MA)

3. Yale University (CT)

4. Columbia University (NY)

4. Stanford University (CA)

4. University of Chicago (IL)

7. Massachusetts Institute of Technology

8. Duke University (NC)

9. University of Pennsylvania

10. California Institute of Technology

10. Johns Hopkins University (MD)

21. Emory University (tied with Georgetown University)

36. Georgia Tech

61. University of Georgia (tied with Purdue University-West Lafayette, and
Clemson, Southern Methodist and Syracuse universities)

Source: U.S. News & World Report, 2016 Best Colleges rankings

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2015 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              111 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                Intelligencer Journal (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

                             August 22, 2008 Friday

F&M, Mu Slip In U.S. News Rankings;
Elizabethtown Holds Steady; Harvard No. 1

BYLINE: Madelyn Pennino

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 651  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


Millersville University and Franklin & Marshall College slipped slightly in U.S.
News & World Report's annual ranking, but school officials said the results
aren't entirely reflective of the positive things happening on campuses.

In the report, which was released today online, Millersville University ranked
58th among U.S. colleges in the north that offer a broad range of undergraduate
and master's degree programs. Last year the school ranked 45th.

Among the nation's liberal-arts schools F&M ranked 42nd, slipping from the 40th
spot last year.

Elizabethtown College remains ranked at No. 5 among the northern region's top
baccalaureate colleges.

Schools were notified of the report earlier this week.

The data is based on criteria such as enrollment, program completion, faculty,
staff, graduation rates, institutional prices, financial aid, freshman retention
rates, class size and reputation.

Harvard University is back at No. 1 in the rankings for the first time in 12
years.

Princeton University slipped to No. 2, ending eight straight years of at least
sharing the top ranking. Yale University followed at No. 3.

Millersville tied with Shippensburg University and were the highest-ranked
schools among the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education universities.

"We are pleased with the ranking," said Vilas Prabhu, Millersville's provost and
vice president for academic affairs. "The exact ranking can fluctuate. Our goal
is to always rank in the first tier."

Prabhu said Millersville consistently does well in areas such as graduation
rates and SAT scores.

In the 2007-08 school year, the school's graduation rate was 81 percent. Average
SAT scores for incoming freshman were between 950 and 1250.

A large part of the rankings ---- 25 percent ---- is determined by peer
assessments where colleges rate each other through surveys.

"By ranking your peers it gives (U.S. News & World Report) more credibility
because they can say 'we're not the ones coming up with these rankings,'''
Prabhu said.

However, Prabhu said the problem with peer assessments is that schools aren't
always aware of little details that can make a difference, such as the
percentage of faculty who have earned doctorate degrees, internship and
service-learning programs.

"They don't know all the good practices we are doing," Prabhu said.

The annual report has long drawn criticism from college officials who say the
report contains flawed methodology, is a one-size fits all list and puts more
weight on pedigree than value.

But Prabhu said he believes the report has merit. "It's a valuable tool in
addition to a lot of other things. Students should visit campuses and talk to
students before choosing a college."

Sara Harberson, F&M's vice president for enrollment and management and dean of
admission, agreed with Prabhu.

"The college search is a very personal experience," Harberson said Thursday.
"Students will have a gut reaction. There's still something valuable about
visiting a school and getting butterflies."

Harberson said F&M's ranking reflects all the good things happening at the
school such as a 12 percent increase in admission applications, a flourishing
visitation program and rising SAT scores.

For instance, Harberson said 600 more families have visited the campus over last
year.

"More families are taking tours and attending information sessions," Harberson
said. Admissions "is a very individualized personal process. We want to be seen
as much more than a number."

Elizabethtown College did not return phone calls Thursday concerning the
rankings.

This year the report includes two new rankings. The first is a list of
up-and-coming institutions ---- colleges that make innovative improvements.

The second will be the first-ever rankings of colleges by high school guidance
counselors

Highlights of the 2009 edition of America's Best Colleges rankings will be
published in the Sept. 1 edition of U.S. News & World Report.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.


                              112 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           September 13, 2016 Tuesday

UMPI earns three top rankings

LENGTH: 460 words


PRESQUE ISLE--Officials at the University of Maine at Presque Isle recently
announced that the institution earned three top rankings on U.S. News and World
Report's 2017 Best Colleges list.


In this year's annual rankings, UMPI was named among the 50 Best Regional
Colleges in the North, the 15 Top Public Schools in the North, and the top 10
Regional Colleges in the North for graduates with least debt.


"We are very pleased to be recognized on this year's Best Colleges List by U.S.
News and World Report and honored with three rankings that showcase the hard
work our faculty and staff do every day to provide a high quality and low cost
education for our students," UMPI Interim President Ray Rice said.


"As a campus, we are delighted especially to have made a significant move up 13
spots on the Best Regional Colleges in the North list, and I believe that is an
indication of the major efforts that have been underway here for the last three
years to provide our students with a very personalized educational experience
while ensuring affordability."


In its Best Regional Colleges in the North ranking, UMPI was listed as 27th,
moving up 13 spots and earning first tier status. The ranking defines regional
colleges as schools that focus on undergraduate education but grant fewer than
half their degrees in liberal arts disciplines. The north region includes Maine,
New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland.


UMPI was listed 15th in the Top Public Schools ranking list for Regional
Colleges in the North. The ranking defines public colleges and universities as
those that are typically operated under the supervision of state governments and
funded, in part, by tax dollars and subsidies from the state. Such universities
often offer free or discounted tuition to students considered residents of the
state.


In its third ranking, the University was short-listed among Regional Colleges in
the North for graduates with the least debt. U.S. News compiled a list of
schools whose Class of 2015 graduated with the lightest debt load. The data
included loans taken out by students from their colleges, from private financial
institutions, and from federal, state, and local governments. UMPI came in 7th,
and was the fifth public school to make the list.


U.S. News and World Report has published its Best Colleges rankings since 1983.
According to its website, the rankings provide an excellent starting point for
families searching for the best academic value for their money and allow them to
compare, at a glance, the relative quality of institutions based on such widely
accepted indicators of excellence as freshman retention and graduation rates and
the strength of the faculty.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News


                              113 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           September 13, 2016 Tuesday

UMPI earns three top rankings

LENGTH: 460 words


PRESQUE ISLE--Officials at the University of Maine at Presque Isle recently
announced that the institution earned three top rankings on U.S. News and World
Report's 2017 Best Colleges list.


In this year's annual rankings, UMPI was named among the 50 Best Regional
Colleges in the North, the 15 Top Public Schools in the North, and the top 10
Regional Colleges in the North for graduates with least debt.


"We are very pleased to be recognized on this year's Best Colleges List by U.S.
News and World Report and honored with three rankings that showcase the hard
work our faculty and staff do every day to provide a high quality and low cost
education for our students," UMPI Interim President Ray Rice said.


"As a campus, we are delighted especially to have made a significant move up 13
spots on the Best Regional Colleges in the North list, and I believe that is an
indication of the major efforts that have been underway here for the last three
years to provide our students with a very personalized educational experience
while ensuring affordability."


In its Best Regional Colleges in the North ranking, UMPI was listed as 27th,
moving up 13 spots and earning first tier status. The ranking defines regional
colleges as schools that focus on undergraduate education but grant fewer than
half their degrees in liberal arts disciplines. The north region includes Maine,
New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland.


UMPI was listed 15th in the Top Public Schools ranking list for Regional
Colleges in the North. The ranking defines public colleges and universities as
those that are typically operated under the supervision of state governments and
funded, in part, by tax dollars and subsidies from the state. Such universities
often offer free or discounted tuition to students considered residents of the
state.


In its third ranking, the University was short-listed among Regional Colleges in
the North for graduates with the least debt. U.S. News compiled a list of
schools whose Class of 2015 graduated with the lightest debt load. The data
included loans taken out by students from their colleges, from private financial
institutions, and from federal, state, and local governments. UMPI came in 7th,
and was the fifth public school to make the list.


U.S. News and World Report has published its Best Colleges rankings since 1983.
According to its website, the rankings provide an excellent starting point for
families searching for the best academic value for their money and allow them to
compare, at a glance, the relative quality of institutions based on such widely
accepted indicators of excellence as freshman retention and graduation rates and
the strength of the faculty.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News


                              114 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 8, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

When College Rankings Are Inflated

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 453 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Gaming the College Rankings'' (news article, Feb. 1):

On the one hand, college admission officers disdain the U.S. News & World Report
rankings. On the other, they slavishly fall in line -- and sometimes cross it --
trying to move up a few notches in the rankings. Perhaps they need some remedial
work on definitions, starting with ''paradox'' and ''hypocrisy.''

But it's not the admission staffs that bear the real blame here. Nor, as Joe
Nocera points out in his excellent reporting on the National Collegiate Athletic
Association, is it the athletes and their parents who are at fault when coaches,
athletic directors and alumni cross the line.

Neither situation will change until a critical mass of college presidents and
trustees stand up to the bullies and say, ''We're not going to play your game
anymore.''

HELEN C. GAGEL Evanston, Ill., Feb. 1, 2012

To the Editor:

Most high school counselors realize that college rankings are largely
ineffective for creating a list of colleges that match a student's interests,
abilities and needs, because the student's needs were not taken into
consideration when the rankings were created.

Many counselors are also aware of the strategies some colleges use to move up in
the rankings, causing counselors to put even less faith in their use as a
counseling tool.

Counselors interact with the rankings simply because parents often read them and
ask the counselor about them. While this offers an opportunity for the counselor
to talk about what steps to take to create a strong, personalized college
search, this is time that could be better used creating that search in the first
place.

Most high school counselors are well aware that rankings are a hindrance, not a
help, in the college selection process.

PATRICK J. O'CONNOR Birmingham, Mich., Feb. 2, 2012

The writer, director of college counseling at the Roeper School, is the author
of ''College Is Yours 2.0.''

To the Editor:

When I was looking for a college, campus representatives often seemed more
interested in how my SATs, grade point average and class rank affected their
averages than in how I fit with their school and philosophy (''College Says It
Exaggerated SAT Figures for Ratings,'' news article, Jan. 31).

At one point I asked an admission staffer why SATs were no longer required at
his school. I appreciated his candid aside: ''Now that they're optional, only
the kids with high SATs send them in. Our averages have gone through the roof.''

Marketing has triumphed over humanity in college admissions, with kids who are
late bloomers, freethinkers or in other ways ''interesting but risky'' worse
off.

JOHN L. SULLIVAN Fairfield, Conn., Jan. 31, 2012

The writer is a junior at Fairfield University.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                 The Times Leader (Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 19, 2006 Saturday

Led by Scranton, grad school programs in area get big thumbs up from magazine

BYLINE: Kris Wernowsky, Wilkes-Barre, Pa., Times Leader

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 17836 words


Aug. 19--The University of Scranton is tied for ninth place among northern
colleges that offer master's degrees.

U.S. News & World Report's list of America's best colleges released Friday shows
Scranton's private Jesuit school tied with St. Joseph's University in
Philadelphia for the ninth spot on the list, which was topped by Villanova
University.

The annual survey is one of the magazine's most popular issues and the most
labor-intensive research project undertaken by the data-gathering staff,
according to Robert J. Morse, the magazine's director of data research.

Other area colleges on the list include King's College, 36; Marywood College,
46; College Misericordia, 56; Wilkes University, 68; and Bloomsburg University,
83. The schools are in the top tier of 557 colleges nationwide that grant
master's degrees.

The U.S. News research staff begins data compilation in December or January, and
the endeavor lasts until August.

Researchers rate the schools using a weighted formula that examines factors such
as freshman retention, graduation rates, alumni donations, financial resources
and student selectivity. Of all the variables, the formula gives the greatest
weight to peer assessments -- what directors, presidents, chancellors and
administrators think about other colleges and universities.

Not all university and college officials take the magazine's rankings seriously.

College Misericordia President Michael MacDowell said he believes the rankings
are useful but said many factors are overlooked.

"The peer evaluations are not what I would call an optimal measuring structure.
I would like to see what students and parents think and look at measurements of
student satisfaction. The wise researcher looks at a number of other things."

Although he questions some of the methods used in the report, MacDowell admitted
that some information, including graduation and retention rates, is useful. Most
people fail to dig deep and look beyond the simple rankings, he said.

Wilkes University spokeswoman Christine Seitzinger said her school would prefer
that potential students visit the campus instead of taking the magazine survey
as gospel.

Even the president of the high-ranking University of Scranton said there is more
to a college than the numbers gathered by Morse and his staff.

"While we are honored to be ranked among the top 10 colleges in the north, we
also acknowledge those qualities of a Scranton education that these rankings do
not seek to capture," said the Rev. Scott R. Pilarz, president of the University
of Scranton.

There is a glaring contradiction in what academics say about the report's
validity and how colleges market the rankings, Morse said.

For example, half of the six colleges in Luzerne and Lackawanna counties
mentioned in the rankings sent press releases acknowledging their placement on
the list. Releases were issued by the University of Scranton, King's College and
College Misericordia -- three of the four highest ranking area schools.

"In some cases, there is this hypocrisy where you have one arm of the school
that uses the rankings, then someone in the academic side privately criticizes
them," he said. "That's not our main audience. It's mainly for prospective
students or parents to help them to make a college decision and it gives them
information they wouldn't be able to obtain by themselves."

Despite the months of research that go into making the magazine's popular
edition, Morse agrees that parents and potential students should use the
magazine as a guide -- in addition to other research -- when deciding where to
spend thousands of dollars in tuition, room and board, and fees.

ON THE WEB

------------

To view the comprehensive list of U.S. News & World Report's annual college
rankings, . The company charges $14.95 to view a more detailed database of
college and university information.

Kris Wernowsky, a Times Leader staff writer, may be reached at 831-7329.

Copyright (c) 2006, Wilkes-Barre, Pa., Times Leader Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Business News. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20060819-WB-0819-Led-by-Scranton-grad-school-programs-in-area-get-big-thumbs-up-
from-magazine

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WB


                        Copyright 2006 The Times Leader


                              116 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                             April 4, 2017 Tuesday

Also-rans now front runners!

LENGTH: 665 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, April 4 -- With over 800 institutions not participating in the HRD
Ministry's National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), some of the
lesser-known colleges of Delhi University such as Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma and
Dyal Singh College figure in the list of top ten colleges.

The list is full of surprises with the DU's Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College
being ranked above the prestigious Lady Shri Ram College for Women in Delhi and
Kolkata's St Xavier's College. The list has no mention of prominent DU colleges,
including St Stephen's College, Hindu College and Hans Raj.

Besides Miranda House, which has been ranked as the number one college, the
other DU colleges in the top ten are Shri Ram College of Commerce (3), Atma Ram
Sanatan Dharm College (5), Lady Shri Ram College for Women (7), Dyal Singh
College (8) and Deen Dayal Upadhyay College (9).

Other DU colleges which have made it to the top 100 list are Keshav
Mahavidyalaya (15), Shaheed Bhagat Singh College (Evening) (34) and the SGND
Khalsa College (46).

Chennai-based Loyola College is ranked as second, Bishop Heber College (4) in
Tiruchirapalli in Tamil Nadu, St. Xavier's College (6) in Kolkata and Women's
Christian College (10) in Chennai also featured in the top ten list.

"The list has only considered those colleges which had applied for the process.
So, even if a college is the most prestigious one and has not participated in
it, there will be no suo motu ranking for it," HRD Minister Prakash Javadekar
said.

The IISc Bangalore, which is the first Indian institution to make it to the top
ten in a global ranking, has been ranked at the top in the annual national
rankings. IISc figures at the top in 'overall' national institutional ranking.
While IIT, Madras came second in the 'overall' ranking, the seven IITs figure in
top ten list.

The IIM, Ahmedabad and IIM, Bengaluru have switched positions in the top
management institute list. Last year, the Bengaluru-based institution was placed
at the top and IIM-Ahmedabad at second.

The NRIF was launched in 2015 and the first edition was held in 2016. The
ambitious project garnered cold response from higher educational institutions
this year with around 800 less participants than last year. According to a
source, 2,735 institutions have participated in this year's ranking as against
last year's 3,563 participants.

Despite controversies, the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), which was at the
third position in the 'Universities' category last year, has been ranked second
this time. However, its rank in the 'Overall' category is sixth. Jadavpur
University bagged the fifth position among the universities.

In the 'Overall' category, Jadavpur University has been ranked at the twelfth
position, while Hyderabad University got the fourteenth rank.

The HRD Minister said that the recognition to universities such as JNU and
Jadavpur University was purely for their research and good work.

"Jadavpur and JNU haven't got good rankings for raising slogan for Afzal Guru
but for doing good work," Javadekar said.

"The educational institutions performing well in the annual ranking will be
awarded with more funding or grants, enhanced autonomy and freedom of
functioning and various other benefits," said Javadekar.

He said a policy regarding the same will be announced soon to encourage the
spirit of competition and ultimately enhance the quality of education being
imparted by the institutions across the country.

The rankings were made under five heads - Overall, University, Engineering,
Management and Pharmacy.

Among the private universities, Amity University made it to the top-100 list in
the Overall and University categories. Amity University in Gautam Budh Nagar in
Uttar Pradesh figured in the 86th position in Overall and 52nd in University
category.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Pioneer. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Lancaster New Era (Pennsylvania)

                            December 10, 2007 Monday

College rankings are just numbers

BYLINE: Lancaster New Era Staff

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 741  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


QI'm a high-school senior applying to colleges, and my mother is driving me
crazy. She heard our high-school counselor say that college rankings aren't all
that useful, so she's not paying any attention to the rankings of schools I
like. We need to narrow the list of places I want to apply to. I have pretty
good grades, and I definitely want to go to a good school, and I'm very upset.

How can I convince my mom that the rankings really matter? A. Let's focus on the
good news: You're headed to college. You and your mom are thinking through an
important decision together. Many families don't give the path to college enough
thought, so hats off to you both. "Every student wants to know how the colleges
they are considering are ranked," says Laura Jeanne Hammond, editor in chief of
Next Step Magazine, a publication that helps high-schoolers plan for college.
Whether you're using the famous (or to some, infamous) U.S. News & World Report
rankings or guides such as Princeton Review, Fiske, Peterson's or the National
Survey of Student Engagement, "The craving for rankings is totally
understandable. You're about to spend a good chunk of money on your college
education. You want to be sure that it is a good investment." The problem is
that students and parents tend to get caught up in rankings. Families are more
likely to seriously consider a college if they have confirmation from somewhere
that it's a "good" school and therefore worth the money, Hammond says. The truth
is that while rankings may sell magazines, they are just one tool - and a minor
one at that - in the selection of a college. "What the rankings don't take into
(account) is the intensely personalized aspects of college planning," Hammond
says. "Families need to have honest discussions about important questions."
Hammond suggests that you start with these: How much can your family afford?
What is your post-college goal? How much does a college's name, location and
prestige matter in the career you think you want to pursue? How motivated are
you to take advantage of premium programs or specialized majors? Is it worth it
to go to a well-known college with excellent programs in math if you're really
interested in art instead? What good is a college's report stating that most
students on campus get involved in clubs or social opportunities if you wouldn't
be caught dead at a college-sponsored function? "Don't start with the rankings,"
Hammond advises. "Start with who you are, what fits your personality and what
matches your career goals." It sure would be nice to push a button and discover
the best college for you, Hammond sympathizes, "But your counselor is right.
There's no one button, one report, one ranking that can do it. The best way to
find a perfect college fit is to put boots to the ground and visit. Ask
questions. Talk with students and faculty. Get a feel for what campus is like.
Do you feel comfortable there? Can you imagine walking to class? Meeting
friends? Estimate the financial impact on the family." The choice involves not
only data but also many intangibles, including a "gut feeling" about the place
that will make you feel comfortable there and do your best work. "You could
attend No Name U and become class president, work hard to earn a fantastic
internship and become a Fortune 500 CEO by age 30. Many CEOs have," Hammond
says. "Or you could never speak up in class, never join any activities and fade
into a boring post-graduation job just as easily at No Name U as you could at an
Ivy League school." Stop arguing with your mom about those college rankings and
start looking at all the reasons a place might be right for you. "Say you want
to be a top chef. Even though a particular school may be in the top-10 culinary
programs, you might not like the location, the teaching style or the class
requirements. The only person who can determine whether a college is the 'best'
or not is you." Counselor tip: For more advice on picking a college and
surviving the applications process, go to nextstepmagazine.com. The site's
College Match section can help narrow your choices and find scholarship aid. If
you register to be a "Next Stepper," you could win $20,000 in tuition
assistance. n Leanna Landsmann is an education writer who began her career as a
classroom teacher. Her column appears every other Monday. Do you have a question
about your child's education? E-mail Leanna@aplusadvice.com Please see ADVICE
page A5

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.


                              118 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Sun

                             August 17, 2007 Friday

Princeton Is Again Tops in U.S.

BYLINE: ELIZABETH GREEN -, Staff Reporter of the Sun

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 301 words


Princeton University will retain its no. 1 spot, followed by Harvard University
at no. 2, in the U.S. News & World Report college rankings to be released
Friday.

Williams College in Massachusetts also will return as the top liberal arts
college in the country, followed by Amherst at second, Swarthmore third, and
Wellesley fourth.

The rollout of the rankings appears to be business as usual, despite criticism
from an anti-rankings group of 63 colleges, whose presidents signed a letter
denouncing the practice and promising to boycott them.

The movement has failed to gain wide support in academia: A new survey of
admissions officers released yesterday by the test preparation company Kaplan
found that 97% of schools who participated in this year's rankings intend to do
so again next year.

U.S. News & World Report editors say the rankings will be little affected by the
protest. The rankings are cherished by high school students, collegians, and
university public relations offices, many of which promote their rank in fliers
and Web sites.

"We obviously want as many people to participate as possible. But all the
statistical data is out there already," the magazine's education editor, Kenneth
Terrell, said. "Whether or not they participate in the peer assessment survey,
we're still getting that information."

Led by a college admissions activist, Lloyd Thacker, the antirankings group
includes many small liberal arts colleges, such as Denison, Saint John's
College, Kenyon, and Wesleyan. Its letter calls for a "new approach to college
rankings."

None of the signing colleges rank at the top of the magazine's list, though some
top colleges have shown limited support.

Yale University, no. 3 this year, is hosting a meeting to discuss alternatives
to the rankings, according to Mr. Thacker's Web site.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The New York Sun, Two SL, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Clover Herald (South Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 22, 2008 Friday

UVa holds pat in U.S. News rankings

BYLINE: The Daily Progress, Charlottesville, Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 475 words


Aug. 22--The University of Virginia has held its spot at No. 23 in the
just-released U.S. News & World Report annual college rankings.

For the fifth year in a row, UVa finished second in the public college rankings,
trailing only the University of California-Berkeley. In the 12 years that U.S.
News has ranked public universities, UVa has always occupied the first or second
spot.

"I think it's one of those things, you never manage the university to the
rankings," UVa spokeswoman Carol Wood said.

"You do what's right" by focusing on academics and the students, she added. "And
if you do that, then the rankings will come."

U.S. News uses such factors as SAT scores, peer reputation, selectivity and
alumni giving when formulating its rankings.

While the university doesn't focus on such rankings, the high marks are still
something UVa officials like to see.

"We're always pleased to be in the top of these rankings," Wood said.

The rankings edition of U.S. News hits newsstands Monday, but the list was
published on the magazine's Web site today.

Harvard University reclaimed the top spot after 12 years. Princeton dropped to
second, ending an eight-year reign of at least tying for the top spot. Yale was
third.

Two other Virginia colleges made the rankings.

The College of William & Mary ranked 32nd overall and sixth among public
colleges; Virginia Tech ranked 71st and 30th.

UVa slipped among the top colleges in financial resources, falling from 57th
last year to 63rd.

That UVa consistently finishes in the top 25, even as it competes with colleges
with more financial resources, is a credit to the school, Wood said.

"It shows the stability of the university" in tough economic times, she said.

Wood noted how well the university showed in another financial category --
faculty resources, where UVa was ranked 35th.

She added that UVa came in at No. 16 in the Great Schools, Great Prices
category, which used to be listed as Best Value.

"We're always pleased to be a part of that," Wood said. "It reflects how well
managed the university is."

In a new category, Up and Comers, UVa ranked 33rd for first-year experience.

UVa's School of Engineering & Applied Science improved its ranking this year,
jumping from 35th to 28th, Wood said.

"The thing I always think of, it's a credit to ... our faculty, staff and
students," Wood said of the rankings. "It's a commitment to excellence that
keeps us among the top of the rankings."

To see more of The Daily Progress or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.dailyprogress.com. Copyright (c) 2008, The Daily Progress,
Charlottesville, Va. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080822-CV-UVa-holds-pat-in-U-S-News-rankings-0822

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CV


               Copyright 2008 The Clover Herald (South Carolina)


                              120 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            September 9, 2016 Friday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Yale keeps No. 1 college ranking, but Harvard gains;
College Factual uses different factors, methods beyond test scores to find the
best of the best

BYLINE: Patrick Foster, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 285 words


Yale remains the top university in the United States, according to  data
released Thursday by College Factual. The private school in New Haven, Conn., is
followed by Harvard (which was No. 5 in last year's ranking) and the University
of Pennsylvania (which dropped from the No. 2 spot).

Duke University, which ranked third last year, slid to the fourth spot, just
ahead of Stanford University. Amherst College, Brown University, Cornell,
Princeton and Notre Dame round out the top 10.

College Factual, which aims to guide students through the college selection
process using outcomes-based data, examines a unique set of factors when putting
together their annual ranking, which feature appearances from the nation's
service academies -- Naval Academy (22), Air Force (33) and Military Academy
(47).

"Many college rankings focus highly on inputs, such as student test scores, and
often include subjective elements such as surveys. College Factual rankings are
different as they focus highly on outputs, such as graduation rates and student
loan default rates," says College Factual CEO Bill Phelan.

These rankings differ from other lists and, according to Phelan, it's for good
reason. Instead of burying methodology in fine print at the bottom of the list,
College Factual puts theirs up front. Freshman retention rates, the number of
full-time teachers and student loan default rates are all key components in the
final rankings.

"We also rank colleges on many different aspects of the education they provide,
from overall quality, to best value, to best for a specific major. At the end of
the day though we want students to go beyond just rankings to discover colleges
that are a great match for them all-around."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 12, 2012 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

New scrutiny of data in U.S. News college list

BYLINE: Nick Anderson

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 585 words


How much suspense can there be in a ranking that lists Harvard as the best
national university, followed by Princeton and Yale?

Yet the U.S. News & World Report annual college rankings, to be released
Wednesday, are closely scrutinized in higher education. College presidents often
denounce the rankings as trivial but pay enormous attention to them because the
rankings are seen as the top arbiter of prestige in a vast, costly and unruly
marketplace.

The 2012-13 rankings come amid questions about whether and how college
administrators manipulate data used in the magazine's formulas. Claremont
McKenna College in California and Emory University in Georgia acknowledged this
year that school officials had inflated SAT scores of incoming freshmen in key
reports. Ultimately, U.S. News concluded that the 2011-12 rankings of the two
schools weren't affected.

In Maryland, Virginia and the District, rankings for prominent schools
categorized as national universities are little changed this year. Johns Hopkins
University remains 13th. Georgetown is 21st, up from 22nd. The University of
Virginia moves to 24th, from 25th.

Others on that list were the College of William & Mary (33, unchanged); George
Washington University (51, from 50); the University of Maryland (58, from 55);
Virginia Tech (72, from 71). American University moved up five places, to 77th.

George Mason University, ranked 139th nationally, was named the top
"up-and-coming" national university, moving into a tie in that category with the
University of Maryland, Baltimore County (which is 160th nationally).

Peter Stearns, provost of GMU, said the university wished that it were moving up
faster on the overall national ranking but was pleased to be listed as a rising
star. He said there is no way to avoid paying attention to the rankings.

"It's sort of fun to see small movements," Stearns said, "but it's important not
to take it too seriously."

Christopher Nelson, president of St. John's College in Annapolis, is a prominent
critic of the rankings. His school, which happens to be ranked 133rd on the list
of national liberal arts colleges, up from 139th, doesn't participate in U.S.
News surveys that provide key input for the list.

"The rankings purport to do something that they can't do well: to give an
objective opinion on a single scale with a lot of data, on what is the single
best college in the country," Nelson said. "We don't think the value of an
education can be quantified."

But Bob Morse, who oversees the U.S. News list, said its credibility in academia
is strong.

"We are getting record-high traffic, and interest in rankings is at its highest
level ever," Morse wrote in an e-mail. He said that the data issues that arose
at Emory and Claremont McKenna "are likely to help our credibility because both
demonstrated how important the integrity of the data is."

The U.S. News list, while the best-known, is hardly the only entry in the field.
Forbes and Kiplinger, among others, rank colleges for value and results. The
Washington Monthly ranks them for their contributions to the country.

Paul Glastris, editor in chief of the Washington Monthly, said the U.S. News
rankings celebrate the elite. More attention, he said, should be paid to the
unsung.

"It's not that we lack good elite schools," Glastris said. "It's that the
average, or below-average, college or university, where the vast bulk of
students go, are trying to behave like Harvard, rather than do the best job with
the students that they have."

andersonn@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

CORRECTION-DATE: September 14, 2012



CORRECTION: A Sept. 12 A-section article about the latest U.S. News & World
Report college rankings misstated the rank of Princeton University. It is tied
with Harvard University atop the list of best national universities, not behind
Harvard.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 10, 2016 Monday

U.S. News & World Report again ranks LC in the top 10

LENGTH: 256  words

DATELINE: New York



 Lewiston: Lewis-Clark State College has issued the following news release:



    Lewis-Clark State College was again ranked in the top 10 in the West among
public higher education institutions in the U.S. News & World Report Best
College annual rankings, which came out in September.





 LCSC tied for No. 6 in the Top Public Schools in the West, according to the
rankings. The West rankings cover a large area that includes everything west of
Oklahoma and the Dakotas.



 LCSC also moved up three spots from a year ago in the best college in the West
overall rankings to No. 23. This ranking includes private and public colleges
that focus on undergraduate education but grant fewer than half of their degrees
in liberal arts disciplines.



 U.S. News & World Report rankings on based on data collected from each college
on up to 15 indicators of academic excellence, including graduation and
retention rates (22.5 percent of the overall score), undergraduate academic
reputations (22.5), faculty resources (20), student selectivity (12.5),
financial resources (10), graduate rate performance (7.5), and alumni giving
rate (5.0).



 LCSC, which has the lowest tuition among Idaho's four-year public institutions,
was one of more than 1,800 colleges and universities to submit data to be
included in the rankings. U.S. News & World Report began the rankings in 1983 to
help college-bound students to select and compare schools.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 10, 2016 Monday

U.S. News & World Report again ranks LC in the top 10

LENGTH: 256  words

DATELINE: New York



 Lewiston: Lewis-Clark State College has issued the following news release:



    Lewis-Clark State College was again ranked in the top 10 in the West among
public higher education institutions in the U.S. News & World Report Best
College annual rankings, which came out in September.





 LCSC tied for No. 6 in the Top Public Schools in the West, according to the
rankings. The West rankings cover a large area that includes everything west of
Oklahoma and the Dakotas.



 LCSC also moved up three spots from a year ago in the best college in the West
overall rankings to No. 23. This ranking includes private and public colleges
that focus on undergraduate education but grant fewer than half of their degrees
in liberal arts disciplines.



 U.S. News & World Report rankings on based on data collected from each college
on up to 15 indicators of academic excellence, including graduation and
retention rates (22.5 percent of the overall score), undergraduate academic
reputations (22.5), faculty resources (20), student selectivity (12.5),
financial resources (10), graduate rate performance (7.5), and alumni giving
rate (5.0).



 LCSC, which has the lowest tuition among Idaho's four-year public institutions,
was one of more than 1,800 colleges and universities to submit data to be
included in the rankings. U.S. News & World Report began the rankings in 1983 to
help college-bound students to select and compare schools.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                          September 11, 2010 Saturday

Why Irish universities should take world rankings seriously

SECTION: WEEKEND; News features; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1017 words


The fall of Ireland s top universities in the world rankings should not be
dismissed. There are concrete reasons why the trend is unlikely to reverse any
time soon, writes  SEÁN FLYNN, Education Editor

THEY WON T ADMIT it, of course, but at midnight last Wednesday scores of
academics in Ireland and elsewhere feverishly logged on to the QS website as the
company published its world university rankings for 2010.

Academics tend to be sniffy and rather disdainful of these and other rankings.
It s easy to understand the scepticism. QS itself admits the process can be like
comparing  apples with oranges . Many universities bear little resemblance to
one another in terms of funding, scale, location, mission or output. But all aim
to teach students and produce research and this, QS maintains, provides a
sufficient basis for comparison.

HOW THE RANKINGS WORK

The QS World University Rankings are regarded as the most reliable guide to
university performance. Broadly, colleges are ranked on the basis of data
gathered on citations per faculty (the number of times the university s research
papers are cited by other academics); peer academic review (canvassing the
opinions of other international academics); employer review (the opinions of
industry and multinational companies); and staff-student ratios.

The number of citations is among the most important factors. These days QS can
easily track the citations in recognised academic books or journals, using
various academic websites. For universities, having a small number of academics
with a huge number of citations is invaluable. In football parlance, these
intellectuals are the proven goalscorers who will push an institution up the
international rankings.

The wealthier universities in Britain and the US will often target these
academics simply to boost their rankings. As one academic explains:  It s a
win-win situation if you can land one of these guys. You get all the credits for
their citations in the rankings. And you inflict real damage on their old
university   usually a competitor.

The rankings can be manipulated in other ways too. Colleges may not always tell
the full story about their staff-student ratio, for example. That said, there is
a useful safeguard in the QS system. Colleges are also assessed on their
research income per student   so it might be better for them to fess up about
the staff-student ratio.

THE FALL OF THE IRISH

Like them or not, the QS rankings have a powerful impact, often shaping the
education agenda. This year s ranking   topped for the first time by a
non-American university, Cambridge   has already caused much soul-searching and
angst in the US.

In Ireland, the fall in the world rankings for both Trinity College Dublin and
University College Dublin has raised awkward questions about a sustainable
funding base for higher education. On Wednesday Trinity s Provost, John Hegarty,
was forthright in his assessment on RTÉ s Morning Ireland. Given the cutbacks in
staff and resources, the move down the rankings was not unexpected, he said, and
the harsh reality was that Irish universities faced a continuing downward spiral
in the world rankings unless they were properly resourced.

The fall in the world rankings of Trinity and UCD created waves because it
reversed a decade-long pattern in which Irish universities had steadily made
their way up the ladder.

Among Irish universities UCD had experienced the most spectacular rise, crashing
into the world s top 100 last year. Only five years ago, it had languished at
221. All of this has been useful ammunition for UCD president Hugh Brady, as he
faced down his critics in Belfield.

Brady s modernisation programme and his  pro-business strategy   have unleashed
a storm of protest, but UCD s rise in the world rankings has been a powerful
rejoinder. Internal critics carped, but the international signal was clear: UCD
was on the up and up   until this week.

WHY RANKINGS MATTER

The rankings can be critical for universities seeking corporate partners to help
fund research projects. Former Dublin City University (DCU) president Ferdinand
von Prondzynski recalls:  When DCU entered the top 300 it transformed our
relationship with some companies at a stroke. Suddenly, everything had changed.

Rankings can also be important for Irish universities hoping to bring in the
brightest students from overseas. One university president says:  Academics will
look very closely at your world ranking before they make a decision.

The same is true for international students. Irish universities say students
from the US, India and China are hugely aware of the world rankings. The QS list
is often the first port of call for foreign students.

THE OUTLOOK FOR IRELAND?

This week s rankings for Irish universities are based on data supplied in late
2009, just as cuts across the sector were taking root. University College Cork
and NUI Galway, in particular, have done well to buck the overall trend by
climbing in the rankings.

But this progression could be short-lived. By the end of this year staffing
levels across universities in Ireland will be down by 6 per cent. This will feed
into next year s world university rankings, cutting into our staff-student
ratios.

The Government may like to roll out that giddy stuff about our universities
driving the smart economy. But most observers believe a continuing decline in
the world rankings is inevitable. Things may get a lot worse before they get
better.

topuniversities.com

Finding their level? Key figures

THE QS WORLD TOP 10 UNIVERSITIES

1 Cambridge University, UK

2 Harvard University, US

3 Yale University, US

4 University College London, UK

5 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, US

6 Oxford University, UK

7 Imperial College London, UK

8 University of Chicago, US

9 California Institute of Technology, US

10 Princeton, US

QS IRISH UNIVERSITIES

(2009 ranking in brackets)

52 Trinity College Dublin (43)

114 University College Dublin (89)

184 University College Cork(207)

232 NUI Galway (243)

330 Dublin City University(279)

395 Dublin Institute of Technology (326)

401 NUI Maynooth (437)

451 University of Limerick (451)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2010 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                             April 04, 2008 Friday

ISU grad schools get national rankings

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 435 words


NEWS IN BRIEF

ISU grad schools get national rankings

NORMAL - Illinois State University's College of Education and College of Fine
Arts are among U.S. News and World Report's top graduate schools in America.

In the magazine's 2009 rankings, the College of Education was ranked 90th and
the College of Fine Arts ranked 134th.

The College of Education was third in the Illinois public universities rankings,
with the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and University of Illinois
at Chicago leading the way. The College of Fine Arts ranking was fifth among
Illinois public universities.-

The Master of Fine Arts program rankings are based on the results of a peer
assessment survey conducted in 2007. The graduate education program rankings are
based on quality assessment, student selectivity, faculty resources and research
activity.

The College of Education increased its scores in mean GRE (graduate record
examinations) verbal score, mean GRE quantitative score, Ph.D. and Ed.D
acceptance rate, student/faculty ratio, funded research and funded research per
faculty member.-

Living, wellnessexpo set at IWU

BLOOMINGTON - The third annual Illinois Sustainable Living & Wellness Expo will
be from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. April 11 and 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. April 12 at the Illinois
Wesleyan University Shirk Center, 302 E. Emerson St.

The family-friendly event is free and open to the public. The Expo promotes a
healthy, "green" lifestyle for both the individual and the entire community.

Workshops will be Saturday from 10:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.

For information, visit www.islwe.org.

Setting it right

Local

Breathalyzer - Asked why she volunteered to take a Breathalyzer test, student
Valarie Watson said, "I have had personal experiences with family and friends
when it came to using drugs and that I have seen many things. I also hope that
this will be my first and last Breathalyzer test. It is also my personal
decision not to use drugs or alcohol." Her statement was unclear in Thursday's
Pantagraph.

GO!

Trace Adkins - Trace Adkins has played the U.S. Cellular Coliseum twice in the
past year. Thursday's GO! section listed an incorrect performer.

The Pantagraph values accuracy. If you see something that is inaccurate, report
it to the editor of the section. All corrections will run in this space, except
Sundays. If you are not sure whom to call, contact Editor Mark Pickering at
(309) 820-3252 or mpickering@pantagraph.com

.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The Pantagraph


                              126 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            August 7, 2013 Wednesday

Forbes: UML 10th for 'best buy'

BYLINE: By Rick Sobey, rsobey@lowellsun.com

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 734 words


LOWELL -- Another month, another accolade for the state university.

UMass Lowell is one of the nation's "best buys" in higher education, according
to Forbes' "Best Value College" rankings for 2013. This accolade comes one month
after UMass Lowell was named the "Most Underrated College in America" by
Business Insider, a business and technology news website.

UMass Lowell is No. 10 in the magazine's rankings, finishing right behind UMass
Amherst. As part of its annual "America's Top Colleges" survey, Forbes analyzed
post-graduation success, low student-loan debt, academic performance and student
satisfaction.

"We're thrilled about this ranking, and the success of our graduates and our
affordability over the years," said UMass Lowell Chancellor Marty Meehan. "The
work ethic of our students, choosing careers where there are jobs, coupled with
a very reasonably-priced tuition, has put our students in very strong positions
for the future."

Forbes' top five best-value colleges have no tuition charges: United States
Military Academy, Naval Academy, Air Force Academy, Coast Guard Academy and
Merchant Marine Academy.

The next five colleges in the rankings are Berea College in Berea, Ky.; College
of Charleston in Charleston, S.C.; The Citadel in Charleston, S.C.; UMass
Amherst; and UMass Lowell.

Those schools offered low tuition rates, including $13,415 in-state tuition at
UMass Amherst and $11,847 in-state tuition at UMass Lowell.

Forbes partnered with the Washington, D.C.-based Center for College
Affordability and Productivity for the rankings.

CCAP's formula took each school's 2013 overall quality score (weighing
post-graduate success, student satisfaction, student debt, four-year graduation
rate, and academic success) and dividing this score by the college's 2011
in-state tuition, the most recent year for available data. Forbes and CCAP did
not respond for comment to discuss the "best buy" methodology.

In addition to the Forbes ranking and the "Most Underrated College" accolade,
UMass Lowell was recently recognized as one of the top universities for return
on investment byPayScale.com and Affordable Colleges Online.

Meehan said the university does not seek out these accolades; they're
independent study groups that analyze data, he said.

However, Meehan said he thinks these rankings help attract high-quality
students.

"People are more careful about where to go to school, and they're looking at
national rankings and see us there," Meehan said.

"We're getting more students from outside Massachusetts and outside the country,
and our enrollment is going up as our quality goes up."

UMass Lowell has had enrollment grow by 40 percent in the last five years,
according to Meehan. The student body surpassed 16,000 for the first time and
represents more than 53 countries. Average SAT scores for first-year students
have climbed more than 50 points over six years.

But do all the rankings matter to prospective students? Dr. Paul Wrubel, a
consultant for families choosing colleges, said the scores matter to parents but
not students.

"At the cocktail party, parents love to say their kid goes to Yale, just to brag
about it with their friends and show they're a successful parent," said Wrubel,
who does counseling in California. "But for students, it's totally different.
They want the best fit, the most comfortable environment for four years."

He added that the public has no idea what these rankings mean, and all the
formulas have flaws.

Rachel Fishman, of the Education Policy Program at New America Foundation, a
nonpartisan public-policy institute, also said the rankings are not necessarily
measuring what's most important to students.

"The rankings are a good tool to start out with, but they shouldn't be the
'be-all, end-all' for a student's decision," she said. "Colleges love rankings,
parents love rankings, but the students should be getting as much information as
possible at the end of the day."

However, these "best buy" rankings can be very helpful for families, according
to Dr. Gregory Schmutte, vice president for institutional effectiveness at
American International College in Springfield.

"The best value has gone up in priority as the national economy dipped with the
recession, especially with parents in the middle- to lower-income groups,"
Schmutte said. "They look at the better value as a smart investment for the
future."

Follow Rick Sobey on Twitter @rsobeyLSun.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Workers hang UML banners on the high rise of Fox Hall on the school's
East Campus on Tuesday. SUN/David H. Brow Sun staff photos can be ordered by
visiting our MyCapture site.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Charleston Daily Mail (West Virginia)

                              July 9, 2007, Monday

College rankings are indeed imperfect;
But presidents shouldn't attempt to suppress them

BYLINE: Robert Samuelson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P4A

LENGTH: 840 words


WASHINGTON - You might think that the last group to embrace censorship would be
college presidents. After all, they're interested in expanding knowledge, right?

Well, no. The incipient revolt against the college rankings by U.S. News & World
Report says otherwise. When college presidents - or some of them - encounter
inconvenient information, they're eager to suppress it.

If you missed the story, here's the state of play. At last count, presidents of
46 liberal arts colleges have said they will refuse to participate in part of
the U.S. News annual survey. The list includes such well-known schools as
Barnard and Kenyon.

The presidents say the rankings are "misleading" and "do not serve well the
interests of prospective students."

Superficially, this seems a sensible blow against the increasingly frenzied,
stress-ridden college admissions process.

It isn't.

For starters, remember that the hyper-competition applies mainly to the most
selective schools.

On average, colleges and universities accept about 70 percent of their
applicants, says David Hawkins of the National Association of College Admission
Counseling.

Roughly two-thirds of college freshmen are at their first-choice schools,
reports the Higher Education Research Institute at UCLA.

Moreover, the crush at prestigious schools isn't the result of the U.S. News
rankings.

America is a hugely competitive, status-conscious society. Admission to an elite
school is a trophy. The number of qualified students has increased far faster
than the number of openings. Eliminate rankings, and none of this will change.

Any effects the rankings have on colleges' behavior (for instance: trying to
increase applicants to become even more "selective") are trivial by comparison.

Over the years, I've done much reporting on college admissions. As a jittery
parent, I've also watched two of my children go through the process. (Note: They
ignored my advice.)

From all this, I have reached three conclusions.

First, where students go matters much less than popular wisdom holds. How well
people do in life depends mainly on their talents and temperaments, not their
college pedigree.

This is not just my view; it's the conclusion of much academic research. A dummy
who goes to Amherst won't become a genius; a genius who goes to Podunk remains a
genius. Good opportunities exist at most schools.

Second, the cutthroat competition to get into elite schools is as much among
parents as the students.

Parents want bragging rights: "Howard and Mary got into Harvard. Look at the
great job we did raising them."

Third, the U.S. News rankings actually relieve the stress slightly by enlarging
the pool of "elite" schools.

Everyone knows that Williams (rank: 1) and Swarthmore (3) are top liberal arts
colleges. But the first 10 also include Carleton College (6) in Minnesota,
Pomona College (7) in California and Davidson College (10) in North Carolina.

The use of semi-objective standards dilutes raw snobbery. (The same leveling
applies to U.S. News' separate ranking of national universities.)

It's hard to see how students and parents would benefit if the rankings
vanished. (Full disclosure: Brian Kelly, U.S. News' editor, is a friend; I write
for a competitor, Newsweek.)

No one claims the ratings are perfect. Differences of 10 or even 20 places
probably don't mean much.

Still, the ranking tables also expose users to masses of objective, comparative
information: SAT scores; acceptance rates; graduation rates; student-faculty
ratios.

The people who would really benefit from an end to the ratings are college
presidents and deans. They get pestered by alumni, donors, parents: Why isn't
our school higher?

If you're 87 and a traditional rival is 56, it's embarrassing.

Unsurprisingly, many complaining schools don't rank high. Some seem further down
the list of colleges than their old-line reputations imply. Barnard is at 26;
Kenyon at 32. Others are lower: Dickinson, 41; Sarah Lawrence, 45; Earlham, 65.

It's not that colleges don't compete ferociously for students or, when it suits
their purposes, tout rankings in their marketing.

Kenyon's Web site brags that it's one of Newsweek's 25 designated "New Ivies."
Barnard notes a survey by Time/Princeton Review that "40 percent of the 10
nicest dorms in the country" are at all-women's colleges.

What's so shameful about this campaign against the rankings is its
anti-intellectualism.

Much information is in some way incomplete or imperfect. The proper response to
evidence that you dislike or dispute is to supplement it or discredit it with
better evidence. The wrong response is to suppress it.

And yet, that's the agenda of these college presidents. By not cooperating with
some or all of the U.S. News survey, they hope to sabotage the rankings. They
say they'll provide superior information.

But they want to control what parents and students see. This is soft censorship.

What their students will learn, if they're paying attention, is a life lesson in
cynicism: how eminent authorities cloak their self-interest in high-sounding,
deceptive rhetoric.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Charleston Newspapers


                              128 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                             August 31, 2008 Sunday

Letters to the editor

BYLINE: Joanne M. Burrows, SC President, Clarke College

SECTION: A; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 263 words


Each year, numerous magazines and Web sites share their comparative rankings of
colleges and universities and, ultimately, declare which are the "best."

For example, Forbes magazine recently named Clarke College to its "America's
Best Colleges" list, the second-highest Iowa school on the list.

While I understand the significance of reporting on various rankings, the brief
in the Telegraph Herald (Aug. 23) could have gone further in clarifying the
categories of the recent U.S. News and World Report "America's Best Colleges"
rankings.

This year, Clarke College was listed in the third tier of the nation's "Best
Liberal Arts Colleges." This places Clarke among the most prestigious liberal
arts schools in the country and it compares Clarke on a national level, rather
than on a regional level like the categories that include other area schools.

Until recently, Clarke was included in the regional rankings for "Best
Comprehensive Colleges - Bachelor's," and its ranking was comparable to other
local schools.

Two years ago, Clarke moved from the regional to the national ranking category
based on the percentage of its graduates receiving degrees in the sciences, arts
and humanities. We consider it an honor to be listed as a national institution
among such a highly regarded group of schools.

College rankings are just one tool in gathering comparative data. Students and
families should look closely at how the rankings are developed and what factors
they deem as important. Ultimately, visiting a school is the best way for
students to determine which college is best for them.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 19, 2017 Thursday

CCNY scores highly on global & Chronicle of Higher ed. rankings

LENGTH: 414  words



New York: City University of New York, City College has issued the following
news release:
Two new rankings reflect The City College of New York's impressive academic
standing internationally and its ability to boost remarkably the social mobility
of its students.


In its 2017 appraisal of the top schools globally, the Center for World
University Rankings places City College, whose student population represents
89.6% of the world's 193 sovereign states, in the top 1.2%.
CCNY ranked # 323 among the more than 27,000 degree-granting institutions of
higher education worldwide according to the CWUR, which conducts the largest
academic ranking of global universities.
At home, The Chronicle of Higher Education ranks CCNY #2 nationally among
four-year public institutions with the highest student mobility rates. CCNY's
mobility rate was pegged at 11.72%
The mobility rates reflect a measure of the percentage of all students in a
birth cohort at a particular college whose parents were in the bottom 20 percent
for household income, and who reached the top 20 percent for individual
earnings. Six other City University of New York institutions were in the top 10
for mobility rates among four-year public colleges.
In other favorable rankings this fall, CCNY earned recognition nationally for
its diversity. The Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education 2018 College
Rankings placed City College at joint #8 for environment with three other
schools.
In addition, the U.S. News & World Report 2018 rankings named CCNY as one of the
top 100 Best Regional Universities in the North and a Top Public School in the
North.
About the Center for World University Rankings
 The CWUR publishes the only global university rankings that measure the quality
of education and training of students as well as the prestige of the faculty
members and the quality of their research without relying on surveys and
university data submissions.The rankings started out as a project in Jeddah,
Saudi Arabia in 2012 with the aim of rating the top 100 world universities. They
were quickly reported worldwide by universities and the media and many requests
were received to expand them. In 2014, the rankings expanded to list the top
1000 out of 27,000+ degree-granting institutions of higher education worldwide,
making them the largest academic rankings of global universities.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                FEBRUARY 11, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COLLEGE GUIDE WILL CHANGE ITS RANKINGS

BYLINE: MICHELLE LEVANDER, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 542 words


Frustrated Stanford students who launched a national boycott of U.S. News &
World Report's influential college guide have an early victory in their
campaign.

The magazine's college guide has adopted a key suggestion made by the national
student group Forget U.S. News Coalition, or FUNC, and will offer alternatives
to a much-criticized overall ranking of 1,400 schools.

"The kids came along and reinforced what we were thinking," said Mel Elfin,
executive editor of "America's Best Colleges," the U.S. News & World Report
guide.

The changes, most of which will be rolled out by fall, will make it easier for
students to use the magazine's data to craft their own rankings of top-notch
schools.

In its Web site, the magazine plans to break down the 18 educational ingredients
used for its magic "best college" formula into separate charts featuring 50
schools each. In that way, students easily can assess for themselves how the top
schools rank in the categories they view as most important. Many of those charts
will appear in the print version in August.

The Web site will let students design their own ranking formulas and weigh the
relative importance of the guide's 18 educational criteria for a personalized
ranking system. That could happen as soon as this fall. These steps will reduce
the sway the overall ranking can have on students' decisions.

"If a student wants to do his or her own ranking or is interested in a
particular question, we will offer an easier or friendlier way for him to make
up his or her mind," Elfin said.

The student group, born at Stanford, had demanded that the magazine revamp its
college rankings to reflect the complexity of the college experience. They had
wanted the overall rankings to be halted but didn't object to ranking schools by
separate educational criteria.

Their campaign, launched in mid-October, already has support from students at
more than 70 universities.

Criticism of U.S. News' guide is nothing new, but lately it has gotten more
intense. Stanford President Gerhard Casper wrote a letter lambasting its
methodology to U.S. News Editor James Fallows in September.

Student leader and Stanford senior Nick Thompson said the changes were "a step
in the right direction" that would reduce the damage on colleges caused by dips
in the rankings. But Thompson said the nationwide boycott launched last week
will continue until the magazine abolishes its overall ranking.

Casper, a critic of the rankings, revealed for the first time that he has
contemplated a boycott of the college guide himself. The recent changes, he
said, will give him pause.

"Obviously, they are trying to respond to some of the criticisms that focus on
the arbitrariness of quantitative rankings," Casper said. "Previously readers
were forced to accept their rating. Now the reader can take 18 criteria and
assign his or her own weight and do a different kind of mix. That's an
improvement."

But, like the students, Casper remained unhappy with the overall score given to
each school, based on the magazine's own formula. That formula attaches
different weights to each of 18 educational standards ranging from selectivity -
or the academic credentials of admitted students - to alumni giving.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 18, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Ranking the Schools

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 363 words


The Jan. 3 op-ed column by Joanne V. Creighton recycled some highly flawed
criticisms of the U.S. News & World Report college rankings.

SAT scores help predict student performance in the first year of college, as Ms.
Creighton concedes; consequently we believe that the academic rigor of a college
can be partly inferred from the scores of the students it accepts. When we
recently polled college presidents, provosts and deans of admissions, asking
them to rate our 16 college-ranking indicators, 53 percent rated SAT and ACT
scores as "important" or "very important" in gauging academic quality.

The idea that schools "manipulate" acceptance rates to improve their rankings
doesn't hold water. Yield -- the percentage of admitted students who enroll --
is worth only 1.5 percent in our ranking system. Acceptance rate counts for just
2.25 percent. To improve a school's score by one half of a point would require a
change of 33 percentage points in yield or 25 percentage points in acceptance
rate. Thus, it's almost impossible to change these factors enough to affect a
school's ranking.

Ms. Creighton refers to a study that contended that the weights we apply to our
16 indicators -- not the indicators themselves -- were without defensible or
theoretical bases. However, it went on to say, "Such criticism does not mean
that the present weighting system is necessarily wrong," but that the weights
are based on "the U.S. News staff's best judgment on how to combine the
measures."

Exactly. U.S. News began ranking colleges in 1983, and since has expanded and
refined its system. Each year we confer with representatives from more than 50
colleges and graduate schools, many of whom offer suggestions on how to improve
our ranking system. We listen to their suggestions.

Our ranking system and the data we publish give students and parents a useful
tool for comparing colleges in a variety of ways. But we have always said that
our rankings are just one of many tools that students should use to find the
right college, and our research shows that most students use the rankings
appropriately.

PETER CARY

Special Projects Editor

U.S. News and World Report

Washington

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              132 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    The News & Advance (Lynchburg, Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 23, 2008 Saturday

Four Lynchburg-area colleges make U.S. News & World Report ranking

BYLINE: Christa Desrets, The News & Advance, Lynchburg, Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 348 words


Aug. 23--Four Lynchburg-area colleges are listed in the U.S. News & World
Report's 2009 college rankings.

The latest edition hits newsstands this week. Rankings were published Friday on
the magazine's Web site.

Lynchburg College climbed 10 spots, and Randolph College dipped 27 in their
respective categories. Sweet Briar College fell one spot.

Here's how Lynchburg-area schools fared:

- Liberty University was one of only three colleges profiled nationwide in the
2007 edition, which also was the first year the college ranked, as No. 109 in
the southern region of master's universities. Last year, the college was
unranked in the bottom tier of the same category, where it remains this year.

-ï[#x20ac] Lynchburg College climbed 10 spots this year to No. 33 in the
southern region of master's universities. In the 2007 edition, in was No. 44,
and last year was No. 43.

- Randolph College dipped 27 spots to No. 118 in the nation among liberal arts
colleges. Two years ago, it placed at No. 86, and last year at No. 91.

- Sweet Briar College, which has boycotted the surveys for several years, this
year ranked No. 84 among the nation's liberal arts colleges. Two years ago it
took No. 74, and last year No. 83.

The ranking formula takes account of factors such as SAT scores, peer
reputation, selectivity and alumni giving.

Some colleges are critical of the peer assessment survey, which determines 25
percent of a school's score. Sweet Briar President Elisabeth Muhlenfeld in the
past has called that portion of the survey a popularity contest.

Taking the top spot in the rankings this year is Harvard University, beating out
Princeton University for the first time in 12 years.

To see more of The News & Advance, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.newsadvance.com. Copyright (c) 2008, The News & Advance, Lynchburg,
Va. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080823-LY-Four-Lynchburg-area-colleges-make-U-S-News-World-Report-
ranking-0823

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LY


                       Copyright 2008 The News & Advance


                              133 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                            August 7, 2013 Wednesday

UMass Lowell ranks 10th in 'best value'

BYLINE: By Rick Sobey, rsobey@lowellsun.com

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 739 words


LOWELL -- Another month, another accolade for UMass Lowell.

The university is one of the nation's "best buys" in higher education, according
to Forbes' "Best Value College" rankings for 2013. The accolade comes one month
after it was named the "Most Underrated College in America" by Business Insider,
a business and technology news website.

UMass Lowell is No. 10 in Forbes' rankings, finishing right behind UMass
Amherst. As part of its annual "America's Top Colleges" survey, Forbes analyzed
postgraduation success, low student-loan debt, academic performance and student
satisfaction.

"We're thrilled about this ranking and the success of our graduates and our
affordability over the years," UMass Lowell Chancellor Marty Meehan said. "The
work ethic of our students, choosing careers where there are jobs, coupled with
a very reasonably priced tuition, has put our students in very strong positions
for the future."

Forbes' top five best-value colleges have no tuition charges: the United States
Military Academy, Naval Academy, Air Force Academy, Coast Guard Academy and
Merchant Marine Academy.

The next five colleges in the rankings are Berea College in Berea, Ky.; College
of Charleston in Charleston, S.C.; The Citadel in Charleston, S.C.; UMass
Amherst; and UMass Lowell.

Forbes partnered with the Washington, D.C.-based Center for College
Affordability and Productivity, or CCAP, for the rankings.

CCAP's formula took each school's 2013 overall quality score (weighing
postgraduate success, student satisfaction, student debt, four-year graduation
rate and academic success) and divided it by the college's 2011 in-state
tuition, the most recent year for available data.

Forbes and CCAP did not respond for comment to discuss this "best buy"
methodology.

The top five schools have no tuition charges and the other schools offer low
tuition rates, including $13,415 in-state tuition at UMass Amherst and $11,847
in-state tuition at UMass Lowell.

In addition to the Forbes ranking and the "Most Underrated College" accolade,
UMass Lowell was recently recognized as one of the top universities for return
on investment byPayScale.com and Affordable Colleges Online.

Meehan said the university does not seek out the accolades; rather, he said,
they're from independent study groups that analyze data.

However, Meehan said he believes the rankings help attract high-quality
students.

"People are more careful about where to go to school, and they're looking at
national rankings and see us there," Meehan said. "We're getting more students
from outside Massachusetts and outside the country, and our enrollment is going
up as our quality goes up."

UMass Lowell has had enrollment grow by 40 percent in the last five years,
according to Meehan. The student body surpassed 16,000 for the first time and
represents more than 53 countries. Average SAT scores for first-year students
have climbed more than 50 points over six years.

But do all the rankings matter to prospective students?

Dr. Paul Wrubel, a consultant for families choosing colleges, said the scores
matter to parents but not students.

"At the cocktail party, parents love to say their kid goes to Yale, just to brag
about it with their friends and show they're a successful parent," said Wrubel,
who does counseling in California. "But for students, it's totally different.
They want the best fit, the most comfortable environment for four years."

He said the public has no idea what the rankings mean, and that all the formulas
have flaws.

Rachel Fishman, of the Education Policy Program at New America Foundation, a
nonpartisan public-policy institute, also said the rankings are not necessarily
measuring what's most important to students.

"The rankings are a good tool to start out with, but they shouldn't be the
be-all, end-all for a student's decision," she said. "Colleges love rankings,
parents love rankings, but the students should be getting as much information as
possible at the end of the day."

However, these "best buy" rankings can be very helpful for families, according
to Dr. Gregory Schmutte, vice president for institutional effectiveness at
American International College in Springfield.

"The best value has gone up in priority as the national economy dipped with the
recession, especially with parents in the middle- to lower-income groups,"
Schmutte said. "They look at the better value as a smart investment for the
future."

Follow Rick Sobey on Twitter @rsobeyLSun.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                           October 25, 1994, Tuesday

Letters Magazine's unfair ranking hurts Spelman's reputation

BYLINE: THEODORE CROSS, New York, N.Y.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Section A; Page 15

LENGTH: 837 words


Editor, The Journal of Blacks in Higher Education

The Editors: For several years Spelman College has been rated near the top of
small liberal arts colleges in the Southeast in the annual ratings of U.S. News
and World Report. But this year Spelman was almost nowhere to be found.

Spelman was reclassified as a national liberal arts college rather than a
regional institution and ended up far down the list in the rankings.

The new ranking strikes a mighty blow to Spelman's reputation. The school drops
from being the very best liberal arts college in the Southeast to an also-ran in
the national rankings. The school's low rating is demonstratively false.

Probably the best indicator of Spelman's superb reputation is the number of
applications it receives compared to the slots available in the freshman class.
A place at Spelman is so highly prized that the college is able to accept only
33 percent of freshman applicants.

Notwithstanding U.S. News & World Report's assignment of Spelman to mediocre
status, it was the only black college listed in the magazine's ranking of the
top 160 liberal arts colleges in the nation.

The ranking appears to be simply the outcome of a mindless system that does not
even notice black scholars or their institutions.

What is normal?

HARRY M. WALTON, Atlanta

The Editors: Regarding Rheta Grimsley Johnson's column on Newt Gingrich's
"normal Americans," she forgot to list her blood pressure and body temperature
as further proof she is normal.

Newt is referring to normal American thinking, which is against government
control of our lives, government bureaucracy, against higher taxes, against
limiting free enterprise, against extending welfare and for harsher penalties
for criminals.

Referring to his connection to "powerful lobbyists," I'm sure he doesn't have
the connection - or even want to have the connection - of, by far, the most
powerful lobbyists in the country, the labor unions.

Whatever Ms. Johnson's reference for the crack about ex-President Nixon using
his family, that is surely not as bad as defending a president who knows too
little about the real issues and has the reputation of being a womanizer and a
draft dodger.

An extra cost

BOB WILLIMON, Atlanta

The Editors: I, for one, am against the so-called one-bill utility proposal.
American Express would inject itself into this picture for a nominal cost. This
is a cost we do not need. I am pleased and proud of our DeKalb system, and I
know our county commissioners would cast a wary eye on any such foolishness.

Now, admit it. Would American Express even consider such a plan unless they
smelled money in it?

Bow-hunting fairly

HUGH BUCHANAN, Peachtree City

The Editors: It's hunting season and we are reminded that the hunter is a
sportsman, which by definition is associated with physical activity.

How much physical activity is associated with pulling the trigger of a rifle and
hauling game through the woods on a four-wheeler?

OK, a walk through the woods is physical and so is climbing a tree to a deer
stand where the hunter waits with a rifle to ambush the unsuspecting opponent of
this game.

The game is not one-sided at all during bow season, and the physical activity is
demanding. Most importantly, a stray arrow is far less dangerous in hunting
areas near housing.

I suggest that the entire hunting season in Georgia, for reasons of safety and
sportsmanship, should be bow season only.

Enough privileges

LUCY TODD, Atlanta

The Editors: If Frederic Tokars gets to use taxpayers' money to pay for his
defense, we should make sure it is defense from the public defender's office
instead of his rich lawyers like Bobby Lee Cook.

Enough of special privileges for a special few.

Tough sentences do cut crime

TOM ROBERTS, Fayetteville

The Editors: In reports on the differences in sentences given out in
jurisdictions in the Atlanta metro area, there appeared to be an inference that
those courts giving the stiffest sentences are somehow being unfair. The source
was data from The Sentencing Project, which claims there is no correlation
between severity of sentence and the volume of crime in a jurisdiction.

Yet, the report noted there is a much higher occurence of violent crime and
burglary in those jurisdictions said to be more lenient - Fulton County being
the most glaring example - and that criminals stay away from Fayette County
because of the sentences meted out by our judges.

To my knowledge, there has been not one experiment to determine the accuracy of
the claims by The Sentencing Project and seldom has it been called on to produce
any data to back up its claims.

Fulton residents elect corrupt politicians; they allow soft-on-crime judges to
stay in office; they re-elect lazy district attorneys. But, worst of all, they
compose the juries that give these criminals such soft sentences.

Give me Judges Paschal English and Andrew Whalen anytime. If you don't want to
do the time or ride Ol' Sparky, don't do the crime in Fayette County.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH943010140

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                              135 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                           September 10, 2013 Tuesday
                                 Drive Edition

Oklahoma universities hold steady or edge down in magazine's rankings

BYLINE: SILAS ALLEN, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS METRO/STATE; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 548 words


Oklahoma's national universities held steady or edged downward in a national
ranking of colleges and universities released Tuesday.

The 2014 U.S. News and World Report Best Colleges ranking was released Tuesday.
The report ranks schools nationwide in a number of categories, including
performance criteria like graduation rates and freshman retention rates, as well
as other factors like selectivity.

None of Oklahoma's three national universities - the University of Oklahoma,
Oklahoma State University and the University of Tulsa - moved up in this year's
ranking. OU was tied with seven other schools for 101st place, the same ranking
it received for the past two years.

In a statement, OU President David Boren said he was pleased with the ranking.
Boren said the university doesn't place great emphasis on the ranking because
they aren't based on evaluation of the university's academic programs.

OSU moved down slightly, dropping from 139th last year to 142nd this year, where
it's tied with seven other schools. OSU dropped in the ranking last year as
well, falling from 132nd place the previous year.

Although it moved down in the ranking, TU fared best of Oklahoma's three
universities. The university was ranked 86th, where it was tied with the
University of Alabama, University of California - Santa Cruz and the University
of Colorado Boulder. TU also moved down in last year's ranking, falling to 83rd
last year from 75th the previous year.

Meanwhile, two of Oklahoma City's regional universities - Oklahoma City
University and Oklahoma Christian University - climbed in the rankings. OCU
moved from 26th place among western regional universities last year to 24th
place this year. OC moved up one space, climbing from 43rd place last year to
42nd place this year.

Robert Morse, director of data research for U.S. News and World Report, said
changes in the way the rankings are calculated may have caused schools to move
up or down in the rankings.

This year's scoring methods were changed to place greater emphasis on
performance factors like six-year college graduation rates and freshman
retention, Morse said. Other factors, including selectivity, play a lesser role
than they have in years past, he said.

While those changes may have caused some schools to move up or down in the
rankings, other schools may see changes because they performed better or worse
than they had in certain categories.

"You have to look at schools on a case-by-case basis," he said.

The U.S. News and World Report list is one of the most widely known college
ranking guides in the country. But critics say they aren't an accurate
representation of how colleges actually perform.

During a speech on college affordability last month at the University at
Buffalo, President Barack Obama singled the rankings out, saying they focus too
little on educational outcomes and present too many opportunities for colleges
and universities to manipulate their scores.

"It actually rewards them, in some cases, for raising costs," Obama said. "I
think we should rate colleges based on opportunity."

Last month, Obama directed U.S. Department of Education officials to develop an
alternative college rating system that they say would allow students and parents
to pick a school based on value and affordability.


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2013 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 4, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

How Useful Are College Rankings?

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 737 words


To the Editor:

I disagree with Joe Nocera's critique of U.S. News & World Report's latest
''Best Colleges'' survey (''The College Rankings Racket,'' Sept. 29).

Rejecting rankings suggests that prospective students are not smart enough to
interpret data and make an informed choice. In reality, rankings force colleges
to be forthcoming about class size, student demographics and resources expended
on learning -- factors that contribute to learning outcomes.

No single ranking suffices for all students. Those at the top of U.S. News's
2013 list may not be the best colleges for students interested in study abroad,
community service or seminar-style classes, for instance -- characteristics for
which U.S. News publishes separate listings.

No shorthand can replace careful scrutiny of institutions to determine the right
fit. Though U.S. News's methodology is imperfect, all but the silliest rankings
provide critical consumer information that helps students and parents make a
complicated decision.

DAVID E. VAN ZANDT President, The New School New York, Sept. 30, 2012

To the Editor:

To sell access to its databases every year, U.S. News & World Report must create
rankings that change annually. The relative quality of schools changes over a
period of years, not yearly, and that fiction exposes the folly of the rankings.
Rather than a number, groupings like ''great,'' ''good,'' ''fair'' and ''poor''
should be the only ratings that schools receive. Further attempts to distinguish
them are unnecessary, misleading and impossible.

CHAD MARLOW New York, Sept. 29, 2012

To the Editor:

I applaud Joe Nocera for his insights on college rankings. But a degree from an
Ivy League or similarly rated school is fast becoming a requirement for the
future masters of the universe.

Outstanding students know that a top-tier pedigree is practically the only way
to get a job at the breeding grounds for the 1 percenters -- global investment
banks, white-shoe law firms and premier strategy consultants. As long as a
top-rated school is a prerequisite to a seven-figure salary, there will be lists
to help the decision makers choose the fortunate few.

RICHARD WEINSTEIN East Brunswick, N.J., Sept. 29, 2012

To the Editor:

Joe Nocera explains with great insight the damage that college rankings do to
students and to American higher education. I would add two points.

First, the rankings place considerable weight on a ''reputational survey'' of
colleges sent to the presidents and other top college officials across the
country, in which they are asked to indicate on a numerical scale their
perception of the quality of institutions similar to theirs.

This measure is highly biased in favor of well-known elite institutions
irrespective of what these schools actually provide to their students today. And
universities spend substantial amounts of money to send out glossy brochures to
the officials in the hope of raising their score -- a huge waste of money at a
time when college costs are rising so rapidly.

Second, U.S. News & World Report does a separate ranking of student diversity at
each college. Most higher education leaders agree that racial, ethnic and
religious diversity contributes significantly to students' educational
experience, but U.S. News does not use this data, or data on income diversity,
in its assessment of institutional quality. This suggests that student diversity
is unrelated to quality, which most certainly is not the case.

STEVEN J. DINER New York, Sept. 30, 2012

The writer was chancellor of Rutgers University-Newark from 2002 to 2011.

To the Editor:

The fact is that highly ranked schools based on the traditional metrics do
provide advantages in many respects, but a committed student can transcend the
rankings. I graduated from Stuyvesant High School near the top of my class, and
my limited finances brought me to Brooklyn College, probably the most
cost-effective quality higher education that I could have received at that time.

It jump-started my professorial and research career in academia. Now I have
returned to Brooklyn College as a visiting professor to inspire students who may
not be aware of how right Joe Nocera is that ''where you go to college matters
far less than what you put into college.'' And, I would add, what you do with
the knowledge you gain.

SHELDON KRIMSKY Medford, Mass., Sept. 29, 2012

The writer is a professor in the department of urban and environmental policy at
Tufts University.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/04/opinion/how-useful-are-college-rankings.
html

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TRENTON EDWARDS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                 The Times Leader (Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           September 16, 2016 Friday

EDITORIAL: 'Best College' rankings are mostly bunk; find the university that
suits you

BYLINE: The Times Leader, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 535 words


Sept. 16--Sure, it sounded like sour grapes when Wilkes University President
Patrick Leahy pooh-poohed the value of the new U.S. News & World Report "Best
Colleges" rankings.

The suspicion is almost inevitable: Of course he'd think the rankings are
flawed, his school came in 85th on the "Regional Universities North" list, the
lowest position among area institutions. But don't dismiss Leahy's laments to a
Times Leader reporter too quickly.

After all, if U.S. News insists on telling us what schools are the "best," the
magazine should be ready to stand up to serious scrutiny about how it makes such
a lofty determination.

The truth is, even an editor of U.S. News admitted imperfections in the rankings
.

A 2015 commentary by Amy Laitinen in The Chronicle of Higher Education bluntly
contended "those rankings, as has been repeatedly pointed out, are fundamentally
flawed -- not just because they largely use inputs that reward and replicate
exclusivity and wealth, but because they don't answer vital questions that
students have."

Laitinen, of the youth-oriented think tank "New America Foundation," goes on to
quote U.S. News editor Brian Kelly from 2013: "We know the rankings aren't
perfect, mostly because some of the data we'd like to get isn't available. What
have students learned when they graduate? Did they get jobs? How much do they
earn? These are factors most consumers would like to know. But for the most
part, they aren't measured by schools in any comparable way."

Likewise, Leahy said there's not much consideration given in the ratings to
which students a school accepts, and what it does for those students. It is a
statistical fact: Minority, low-income and English as a Second Language students
are at a higher risk of not completing college, and Wilkes enrolls high
percentages of such groups.

There also is the concern that institutions try to game the rating system. In a
Chronicle article in July, Northwestern University adjunct law professor Steven
Harper cited cases in which law schools shifted scholarship money from
needs-based to academic-based to draw applicants with higher LSAT scores, which
in turn can boost U.S. News rankings.

Leahy and Misericordia University President Thomas Botzman both raised red flags
about another aspect of the U.S. News ratings: Nearly one-quarter of an
institution's score is based on what officials from other colleges say about it.
Aside from being a subjective measure, this means officials who know next to
nothing about a school can have a big say in where it ranks.

Both men pointed to other ranking systems in which their respective schools did
quite well, which raises one last concern: Why should prospective students base
decisions on the U.S. News rankings alone? Which rankings should matter most?

The answer is none.

Those selecting a college would best show they are "college ready" by using
rankings only as a small piece of their calculus, relying on their own research
and visits to campuses to make a final decision.

You are, after all, looking for the "best college" for you.

___ (c)2016 The Times Leader (Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) Visit The Times Leader
(Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) at www.timesleader.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160916-WB-EDITORIAL-Best-College-rankings
-are-mostly-bunk-find-the-university-that-suits-you-0916-20160916

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WB


                        Copyright 2016 The Times Leader


                              138 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                             April 4, 2017 Tuesday

Only 3 Guj varsities in top 100, 1 makes it to top 50

BYLINE: DNA Correspondent

LENGTH: 484  words


IIMA ranked 17th overall; Anand Agri University is at 62nd and IITGN at 78th

Ahmedabad: Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, (IIMA) has topped the list
of management institutes in the country in the second edition of the domestic
ranking under the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). Unfortunately
for Gujarat, this is the only good news in the rankings that were released by
Human Resource Development minister Prakash Javadekar in New Delhi on Monday, as
only three institutes from the state feature in the top 100 overall best
institutes.

IIMA, which has improved its rankings among management institutes from second to
first, is ranked the 17th best overall institute in India. Anand Agricultural
University and IIT, Gandhinagar, which are ranked 62nd and 78th overall
respectively, are the other two institutes from Gujarat in the elite list.

The NIRF Rankings don't present a rosy picture of educational institutes in
Gujarat as some of them have fallen in the rankings, while others have fallen
off the list completely.

IIT, Gandhinagar has fallen from 8th to 30th, while Institute of Technology at
Nirma University has fallen from 45th to 79th in the rankings of best
engineering institutes.

On the other hand, Gujarat University, Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University,
Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India and Central Gujarat University
failed to make the rankings of their respective categories.

NATIONAL RANKINGS

2,995 institutions participated in the ranking, against last year's 3,563; no UP
college in top 100 colleges

University of Mumbai's debut in the overall ranking saw it ranked between 151
and 200

Jamia Hamdard, Delhi, has been ranked as the best institute for pharmacy

Delhi University's Miranda House has been adjudged the best college in the
country

Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, has retained its top spot among the Best
Engineering Institutions

Top 5 colleges

Miranda House, New Delhi

Loyola College, Chennai

Shri Ram College of Commerce, Delhi

Bishop Heber College, Tiruchirapalli

Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College, Delhi

Best Instts (Overall)

1. IISc, Bangalore

2. IIT, Madras

3. IIT, Bombay

4. IIT, Kharagpur

5. IIT, Delhi

6. Jawaharlal Nehru University

7. IIT, Kanpur

8. IIT, Guwahati

9. IIT, Roorkee

10.Banaras Hindu University

How Guj institutes fared

Management: IIMA (1), IRMA (29), Nirma (31)

Engineering: IITGN (8), Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology
(50), DAIICT (70), MS University (76) and Nirma (79)

University: Anand Agri Univ (40), Nirma (75)

College: MV & NV Virani Science College (37), Vitthalbhai Patel & Rajrathan PT
Patel Science College (61), Bahauddin Govt Science College (77)

"JNU and Jadavpur Universities have not been awarded for their 'pro-Afzal Guru'
slogans or for keeping their VC under siege, but for their academic credentials
and research..." -Prakash Javadekar, HRD Minister

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2017 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     High Point Enterprise (North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 10, 2013 Tuesday

HPU gets No. 1 again

BYLINE: David Nivens, The High Point Enterprise, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 402 words


Sept. 10--HIGH POINT -- High Point University has been named No. 1 again in
"America's Best Colleges," published annually by U.S. News and World Report.

In the 2014 rankings released today, HPU received three No. 1 rankings.

"We should be proud,"  said HPU President Nido Qubein. "This is major for us and
the city of High Point."

Here are High Point University 2014 "America's Best Colleges" rankings:

·No. 1 Best Regional College in the South for the second consecutive year.

·No. 1 Up and Coming School in Regional Colleges in the South for the second
consecutive year.

·No. 1 for Best Undergraduate Teaching in Regional Colleges in the South.

Qubein said the rankings reflect the dedication of faculty and staff and the
quality of students.

"The  teaching excellence is a new category for us," Qubein said. "That's
hefty."

The university has steadily moved up in the rankings as it continues to grow. In
2005, at the start of Qubein's tenure, U.S. News ranked HPU No. 17 among
Regional Colleges in the South.

"We are grateful for these rankings." Qubein said.

In addition to being named No. 1 three times in "America's Best Colleges," HPU
was named this year as the No. 4 private school in North Carolina for the best
return on investment, and it is a 2013-14 College of Distinction.

HPU has enjoyed exceptionally high rankings from Forbes, Parade, Colleges of
Distinction and other publications.

"This shows that HPU is continuing its transformation to get these accolades,"
Qubein said.

America's Best Colleges is published annually by the U.S. News & World Report.
The magazine surveys a total of more than 1,400 colleges and universities
nationwide for the rankings. The magazine ranks colleges and universities with a
formula based on opinion surveys and objective data that includes graduation and
retention rates, faculty resources, selectivity, financial resources and alumni
giving. The opinion surveys, filled out by peer campus presidents, rate academic
reputation and quality.

The Best

National Universities: Duke University and Wake Forest University ranked in the
Top 25 for 2014.

National Liberal Arts: Davidson College ranked in the Top 10.

Top Ten Public Universities:  The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

Full Rankings: Go to usnews.com

___ (c)2013 The High Point Enterprise (High Point, N.C.) Visit The High Point
Enterprise (High Point, N.C.) at www.hpe.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130910-HP-HPU-gets-No-1-again-0910-20130910

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HP


                      Copyright 2013 High Point Enterprise


                              140 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                          September 5, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Metro Edition

Colleges are changing the rankings game;
A college president's good advice for prospective students.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 455 words


The annual rollout of U.S. News & World Report magazine's college rankings has
come and gone in recent weeks amid the usual winces and sighs of relief in
collegiate offices - and amid growing controversy.

The best-known of America's college report cards is under fire by the
institutions it grades - so much so that the magazine's editor, Brian Kelly,
felt obliged to respond to the criticism with a video message on its website.
The critics fault the magazine for overreliance on subjective assessments by
higher-ed administrators, and for measures that have the effect of equating a
large endowment with academic quality.

Later this month, several dozen college and university representatives will
assemble at Yale University to discuss plans for a more "educationally relevant"
alternative to the U.S. News rankings. The National Association of Independent
Colleges and Universities is also about to launch what it considers a superior
set of data about colleges, at ucan-network.org.

To the extent those efforts represent heightened accountability to students and
society, they are welcome. Enterprises that are engines of the American Dream
owe prospective students a greater degree of transparency than they often
deliver.

But our guess is that more comparative data won't calm either the stir over what
constitutes quality and value in American higher education or the arms race for
higher rankings among colleges. The demographic dip that's just ahead in the
number of American high-school graduates is enough to keep schools maneuvering
for higher rungs on any credible ranking ladder.

So what's a student or a parent to make of the U.S. News ranking, or any other?
President Linda Hanson of Hamline University in St. Paul (No. 9 on the "Masters
Universities/Midwest" list, the same as in 2006 and 2005) offers what we think
is sound advice:

Don't ignore the rankings. But don't make them the basis of your college choice,
either. Use them to compare College A to College B in things like number of
students in average classrooms, or percentage of a class that graduates in four
years, or the share of alumni who think enough of their alma mater to become
donors.

"That may get you to square one or two," Hanson said. "But what should really
clinch the decision of the student is that campus visit, that opportunity to
meet with faculty and sense what a place is like.... If it doesn't fit for the
student, it's not going to be workable."

SOME TRUTH

"When college and university presidents get together, the old joke [about
college rankings] is that if you're ranked high, you like them. If you're not
ranked so high, they don't matter. The truth lies somewhere in between."

Linda N. Hanson, president, Hamline University, Aug. 29.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2007 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            September 9, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Yale tops Harvard among rankings of U.S. universities;
College Factual uses different factors, methods beyond test scores to find best
of the best

BYLINE: Patrick Foster, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 267 words


Yale remains the top university in the USA, according to  data released Thursday
by College Factual. The private school in New Haven, Conn., is followed by
Harvard (which was No. 5 in last year's ranking) and the University of
Pennsylvania (which dropped from the No. 2 spot).

Duke University, which ranked third last year, slid to the fourth spot, just
ahead of Stanford University. Amherst College, Brown University, Cornell,
Princeton and Notre Dame round out the top 10.

College Factual examines a unique set of factors when putting together its
annual ranking, which features appearances from the nation's service academies
-- Naval Academy (22), Air Force (33) and Military Academy (47).

"Many college rankings focus highly on inputs, such as student test scores, and
often include subjective elements such as surveys. College Factual rankings are
different as they focus highly on outputs, such as graduation rates and student
loan default rates," College Factual CEO Bill Phelan says.

These rankings differ from other lists and, according to Phelan, it's for good
reason. Instead of burying methodology in fine print at the bottom of the list,
College Factual puts its up front. Freshman retention rates, the number of
full-time teachers and student loan default rates are all key components in the
final rankings.

"We also rank colleges on many different aspects of the education they provide,
from overall quality to best value to best for a specific major. At the end of
the day though, we want students to go beyond just rankings to discover colleges
that are a great match for them all-around."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Christopher Capozziello, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                             August 17, 2007 Friday
                                  Main Edition

Magazine looks favorably at local colleges;
Emory, Georgia Tech, UGA among state institutions to fare well in latest U.S.
News & World Report rankings.

BYLINE: ANDREA JONES, RHONDA COOK; Staff

SECTION: METRO NEWS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 368 words


Emory University, Georgia Tech and the University of Georgia all inched up
notches in the coveted and controversial U.S. News & World Report college
rankings, the annual list university presidents love to hate.

Emory ranked 17th among the best national universities, both public and private,
tying with Rice University in Texas. That's up a spot from last year's rankings.
Among public universities, Georgia Tech ranked seventh, its highest ranking
ever, and UGA clawed its way back into the top 20, tying with Rutgers University
and the University of Pittsburgh.

Princeton University beat out Harvard for the coveted top spot among best
national universities.

In another magazine listing, Newsweek magazine and Kaplan Test Prep and
Admission ranked Morehouse College as the nation's "hottest men's college."

Newsweek's "How to Get into College" guide, to be released Monday, attempts to
rank schools in more ways than just which ones attract students with the highest
scores on college entrance exams.

Newsweek will include everything from the "hottest rejecting you" college
(Harvard) to the "hottest in the war on terrorism" (New Mexico Institute of
Mining and Technology).

Newsweek magazine and Kaplan Test Prep and Admission, a company that offers
college entrance exam preparatory services, came up with the "25 Hottest Schools
in America" as part of their annual college guide.

U.S. News & World Report's rankings cause consternation among university
officials, some of whom have debated whether or not to participate in what many
see as a university arms race.

This year, dozens of college presidents signed a scathing letter asking their
colleagues to boycott that magazine's peer ranking category and criticizing the
rankings methodology.

Still, that magazine's rankings issue, which also hits newsstands Monday, sends
college public relations machines into overdrive.

With many categories, both regional and national, colleges often find reasons to
crow.

Agnes Scott College in Decatur was ranked among the top 10 liberal arts colleges
in the South. LaGrange College was No. 3 in the Southern baccalaureate colleges.
Mercer University ranked seventh in the South in the "Best Universities ---
Master's category."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2007 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              143 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 10, 2001, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Ranking lacks credibility

BYLINE: Joanne V. Creighton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 398 words

It is a sorry commentary on educational leadership if colleges manipulate data
about their institutions in an effort to try to move up in rankings manufactured
every year by U.S. News & World Report, although the jury is still out about how
widespread these practices are. What is clear is the deeply flawed nature of the
rankings themselves.

Put simply, U.S. News' numbers fail to add up. Recently, a former director of
data research at U.S. News joined the increasingly vocal critics of the
wrongheaded methodology and commercial motives of the U.S. News rankings. An
internal study commissioned by the magazine in 1997 found, according to The
Washington Monthly, that "the weights used to combine various measures into an
overall rating lack any defensible empirical or theoretical basis." Further,
U.S. News focuses almost exclusively on input measures -- including
institutional wealth, faculty salaries and acceptance rates -- and almost
entirely ignores the key question in evaluating a college: how well it teaches
its students.


Leaders in higher education must continue to speak out against a ranking system
that we know lacks credibility and validity. Not only should we refuse to give
lip service to this specious and oversimplified labeling of our institutions, we
should resist labeling our students with numbers, too. There are insidious
parallels between the bogus ranking of colleges and universities by U.S. News
and the ranking of students by their SAT scores.

Last year, Mount Holyoke College made submission of the SAT score optional for
applicants because it fails to measure many skills and talents -- including
intellectual curiosity, motivation and leadership -- that we value. Our decision
was hailed by many, but a few skeptics suggested that it must be an effort to
boost our average SAT score and thus our ranking among leading colleges.

Nothing could be further from the truth. Indeed, we have de-emphasized the SAT
because we seek a truer assessment of a student's potential. So, too, do college
rankings deserve such de-emphasis, if not outright contempt.

In short, the number is up for both the SAT and U.S. News' ranking game.

Joanne V. Creighton is president of Mount Holyoke College in South Hadley, Mass.


Magazine survey fails to measure how well schools teach students.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DEBATE

                      Copyright 2001 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              144 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Hartford Courant (Connecticut)

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday
                               FINAL - 5 EDITION

UCONN DOWN SLIGHTLY; YALE STEADY

BYLINE: KATHLEEN MEGAN; kathy.megan@courant.com

SECTION: CTNOW; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 386 words


Connecticut colleges and universities stayed about the same this year with
slight ups or downs in that often-criticized annual ritual - the U.S. News &
World Report college rankings.

Once again, Yale University was near the top, ranked third in the national
university division as it was last year. Once again, the Bulldogs were nipping
at the heels of Harvard, ranked No. 1 this year, and Princetown, ranked No. 2.
(Last year Harvard and Princeton were tied at No. 1.)

The University of Connecticut slipped slightly in both the national university
category - from 66 to 69 - and in the top public universities section - from 26
to 27.

Richard Veilleux, spokesman for UConn, said the university doesn't consider the
slippage to be of any significance, but simply the result of the usual
"jostling" that goes on each year.

The rankings have been the subject of much discussion over the years with some
universities and colleges rejecting and ignoring them - as much as possible -
while others see the numbers as affirmation.

At Trinity College, spokeswoman Michele Jacklin said that the college - which
remained steady at 36 among national liberal arts colleges this year - doesn't
use the the rankings in any of its literature.

Like many other liberal arts colleges, Jacklin said, "We dispute the methodology
because it's so prone to being manipulated. ... We don't have any confidence in
the accuracy of the rankings."

John Morgan, spokesman at Quinnipiac University - which ranked 10 last year
among regional universities in the north and moved to ninth this year -- said
the school is pleased with the ranking. The ranking also named Quinnipiac as No.
2 among five regional universities that are "up and coming."

"We are very pleased to be recognized as one of the top up and coming
universities," said Morgan. "We know students and their parents monitor the
rankings."

Robert Morse, director of data research at U.S. News & World Report, said the
rankings can be used as part of a student's college search process, but he said,
"They should only use it as one tool. ... It should not be used as the sole
reason to go to a school.

"If people are using their rankings as the sole criteria to choose one school or
another, that would be an incorrect use of the rankings, but generally speaking,
I think people don't do that."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: (B&W)
 College Rankings (LIBRARY NOTE: This graphic was not available electronically
for this database.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                           September 24, 1993, Friday

Some Ga. colleges climb U.S. News ranking, some slip

BYLINE: By Robert J. Vickers STAFF WRITER

SECTION: STATE NEWS; Section D; Page 4

LENGTH: 416 words


Some Georgia colleges lost ground in the latest U.S. News and World Report
rankings of "America's Best Colleges," but Mercer University, Wesleyan and
Morehouse colleges continued steady climbs in the magazines annual issue.

Last year's top regional liberal arts college for the South, Spelman College,
fell to number four. Berry College, which peaked as the number three regional
liberal arts college in 1991 and fell to number five last year, slipped again to
number six.

Emory University also lost a few steps in the rankings, slipping from its peak
placement as the 21st best national university last year to 25th this year.

"The precision in this is so crude - and they change their criteria nearly every
year - that it makes it rather meaningless from one year to the next," said
Emory Provost Billy Frye. "This university has not declined in its quality and
its achievements; if anything we've grown further. But as long as they're going
to do it, I'd rather be in than out."

Magazine spokeswoman Celeste A. James conceded that the methodology of the
rankings "changed fairly significantly, but the data collection is still the
same."

Frye said his opinion of magazine rankings of colleges was not "sour grapes,"
but lamented their increasing popularity.

"This practice of rankings that's grown in recent years is one of the most
unfortunate things to happen in American higher education," he said. "Since we
don't have control over whether [magazines] rank or not, I'd rather rank than
not be ranked at all."

The "America's Best Colleges" issue, the most widely-quoted of college rankings,
hits the streets Monday.

The magazine uses statistical data and surveys college presidents, deans and
admissions directors on academic reputations to determine its rankings.

The brightest spot in the rankings for Georgia schools was Mercer's steady climb
to the sixth best regional university in the nation. Last year, Mercer ranked
seventh and the previous year ranked 10th.

Also doing well in the ranking was Macon's Wesleyan College, which improved to
fifth best regional liberal arts college. It ranked as the seventh best in 1992
and sixth best in 1991.

Atlanta's own Morehouse College returned to its highest placement in this year's
ranking as the eighth best regional liberal arts college. Morehouse ranked 10th
in 1992 and eighth in 1991.

After the top 25 in each category, schools are listed alphabetically and the
magazine only gives approximate numerical rankings.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH932680167

GRAPHIC: Ranking the schools Here's how U.S. News and World Report ranks
colleges in the nation and in the Southern Region: TOP NATIONAL UNIVERSITIES 1.
Harvard University 2. Princeton University 3. Yale University 4. Massachusetts
Institute of Technology 5. California Institute of Technology 6. Stanford
University 7. Duke University 8. Dartmouth College 9. University of Chicago 10.
Cornell University Emory University was ranked 25th. Georgia Tech was ranked
approximately 30th. University of Georgia was ranked approximately 70th. Georgia
State University was ranked approximately 160th. TOP NATIONAL LIBERAL ARTS
COLLEGES 1. Amherst College 2. Williams College 3. Swarthmore College 4.
Wellesley College 5. Pomona College 6. Bowdoin College 7. Haverford College 8.
Middlebury College 9. Smith College 10. Wesleyan University TOP SOUTHERN
UNIVERSITIES 1. Wake Forest University 2. University of Richmond 3. Berea
College 4. Stetson University 5. Rollins College 6. Mercer University 7. Samford
University 8. Florida International University 9. University of Alabama,
Huntsville 10. Loyola University, New Orleans TOP SOUTHERN LIBERAL ARTS COLLEGES
1. Transylvania University 2. Presbyterian College 3. Wofford College 4. Spelman
College 5. Wesleyan College 6. Berry College 7. Arkansas College 8. Morehouse
College 9. Mary Baldwin College 10. Converse College Note: Georgia colleges in
bold Source: U.S. News and World Report

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


                              146 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 20, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Top Colleges, Rated by Those Who Chose Them

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1159 words


For years, editors and educators have turned out lists grading the nation's
coolest, hottest, hardest-partying, and of course, academically best colleges
and universities.

But while those surveys captured what administrators, faculty members, students,
and other experts thought, no one ranked colleges based entirely on where
America's best and brightest ultimately decided to go.

Now, a group of economists has compiled a new college ratings system that does
just that.

In a study submitted last week to the National Bureau of Economic Research,
Harvard and Yale not unexpectedly take the top two spots. But the authors
contend that their method of rating colleges and universities based on the
real-life decisions of admitted students is more accurate and more relevant than
rankings published each fall in college admissions guidebooks and magazines,
like U.S. News and World Report.

''What you are getting in all these other systems is sort of an expert analysis
of polling data,'' said Andrew Metrick, one of the study's four authors and a
professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. ''This
provides a market-based view.''

Instead of measuring statistics like admissions rates or having college
administrators rate their peers, the researchers analyzed the college choices of
more than 3,200 high-achieving high school seniors from the class of 2000. By
asking those students where they enrolled when they were accepted by several
different colleges, the economists compiled a won-loss record for each college
as if it was a competitor in a chess tournament. The researchers then generated
a preference ranking for more than 100 colleges, employing the same scoring
system used for chess masters.

College admission deans say they have long used similar preference ratings
systems in their own backyards, internally tracking the students who matriculate
and those who turn them down, to help them refine their marketing messages and
define their competition. But the researchers' ranking may be the first study to
statistically gauge the strength of a college's appeal in a way most students,
parents and alumni can understand.

Harvard and Yale came out one and two, and renowned research institutions like
Stanford, Cal Tech, M.I.T. and Princeton rounded out the Top 6. But if this was
predictable, perhaps the rankings of colleges like Emory (61) or New York
University (39) were a bit lower than one might expect.

''Once you get outside the Top 10, people tend to have only a vague sense of how
schools are ranked in terms of student preference,'' said Caroline Hoxby, a
Harvard economics professor and one of the authors.

Some high school guidance counselors said that the study smacked of a popularity
contest.

''If one is a lemming, this would be a great way of picking a college,'' said
Burke Rogers, a veteran college counselor at St. George's, a private boarding
school in Newport, R.I. The study, he added, seemed to encourage conformist
thinking and the myth of a best college, not a best-fitting one, that high
school guidance counselors work hard to dispel.

The researchers conceded that sometimes student preferences might not accurately
value an individual college. ''If students are all wrong, then the ranking is
reflecting students' wrongheaded ideas,'' Ms. Hoxby said. But by and large, the
authors said, their ranking gives students and colleges useful information.

''It tells you something about what quality of students you will find and how
the world might view you depending on which college you go to,'' said
Christopher Avery, another author, who studies college admissions at Harvard's
Kennedy School of Government. Mark Glickman, a statistics professor at Boston
University, also contributed to the study.

The degree of Harvard's dominance was staggering. From their analysis, the
researchers predict that a student who gets into both Harvard and Princeton is
three times as likely to go to Harvard. That same student, on average, is more
than eight times as likely to prefer Harvard to Brown, which ranked No. 7 on the
list. M.I.T. and Cal Tech, the researchers said, have Harvard-like appeal but
mainly among engineers and scientists; they added that the same holds true for
Brigham Young University, which has strong Mormon ties, among Utah residents.

There were major differences between this ranking, which rates the colleges that
top students prefer when they have more than one letter of acceptance, and the
list published by U.S. News, which uses various statistics to measure academic
quality.

Indeed, the two may not always go hand in hand. (Besides their distinct
methodologies, there was a three-year time lag in the data used by the
researchers, and the economists' study combined national universities with small
colleges while U.S. News ranks them separately and allows ties.)

Washington University in St. Louis, for example, was tied for the No. 11 spot in
this year's U.S. News list of national universities; it was the 62nd rated
choice when students' preferences were revealed. Likewise, places like the
University of Pennsylvania, the University of Chicago and Duke placed at least
eight spots lower on the preference ranking than on the U.S. News list.

Meanwhile, colleges like Brown University, which offers a flexible curriculum,
along with Notre Dame and Georgetown, which attract a loyal Catholic following,
placed several spots higher in the student preference rankings.

Although he said no single ranking should be the determining factor in a college
decision, Robert Morse, the director of data research at U.S. News, also has
reservations about how the economists' list might be used.

''It would be interesting to know the preferences of other people who got into
these schools,'' he said. But to ignore indicators like class size, graduation
rates and faculty resources, he added, ''You would be leaving a lot of things on
the table to make the best possible choice.'' Several admissions deans said they
found the researchers' analysis interesting, but they expressed skepticism.
''People are becoming weary of all rankings,'' said Lee Stetson, the dean of
admissions at Penn. ''Whether it helps students or parents make their choices or
if we can measure the strength of our institution based on this study is
probably still a question.''

The researchers, whose study is available at ssrn.com/abstract=601105, say they
do not intend to commercialize their rating system or produce an annual list;
they say they want to offer an unbiased, scientific alternative to existing
rankings.

But even if they do have a better method, Bruce Poch, the dean of admissions at
Pomona College, asks, ''What does this tell kids?''

''This is where someone's announcements of preferences poisons the well of
independent thinking,'' he continued. ''It's like buying a car. Do you buy a
Toyota because it is the No. 1 selling car? It doesn't mean it is a match for
you.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Ranking Colleges and Universities''A new system for ranking
colleges and universities rates the schools that top students prefer when they
can choose from among them. U.S. News and World Report, which publishes a
popular ranking, uses various statistics to rate schools.Ranking by student
preferenceData from high school seniors in 20001. Harvard2. Yale3. Stanford4.
California Institute of Tech.5. Massachusetts Institute of Tech.6. Princeton7.
Brown8. Columbia9. Amherst10. Dartmouth11. Wellesley12. University of
Pennsylvania13. Notre Dame14. Swarthmore15. Cornell16. Georgetown17. Rice18.
Williams19. Duke20. University of VirginiaU.S. News and World ReportData from
college survey in 20041. HarvardPrinceton3. Yale4. University of Pennsylvania5.
DukeMassachusetts Institute of Tech.Stanford8. California Institute of Tech.9.
ColumbiaDartmouth11. NorthwesternWashington University in St. Louis13. Brown14.
CornellJohns HopkinsUniversity of Chicago17. Rice18. Notre DameVanderbilt20.
EmoryThe ranking by preference includes all colleges and universities. U.S. News
has separate categories for colleges and universities. The ranking for
universities is shown above. Omitted numbers indicate ties.(Sources by National
Bureau of Economic Research
 U.S. News and World Report)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            September 9, 2016 Friday

Yale keeps, No . 1 college ranking but Harvard gains;
College Factual uses different factors, methods beyond test scores to find the
best of the best

SECTION: ; Pg. Z3

LENGTH: 299 words


Yale University keeps its spot atop the list.

Harvard University rose from No. 5 to No. 2.

Yale remains the top university in the United States, according to data released
Thursday by College Factual. The private school in New Haven, Conn., is followed
by Harvard (which was No. 5 in last year's ranking) and the University of
Pennsylvania (which dropped from the No. 2 spot).

Duke University, which ranked third last year, slid to the fourth spot, just
ahead of Stanford University. Amherst College, Brown University, Cornell,
Princeton and Notre Dame round out the top 10.

College Factual, which aims to guide students through the college selection
process using outcomes-based data, examines a unique set of factors when putting
together their annual ranking, which feature appearances from the nation's
service academies - Naval Academy (22), Air Force (33) and Military Academy

(47).

"Many college rankings focus highly on inputs, such as student test scores, and
often include subjective elements such as surveys. College Factual rankings are
different as they focus highly on outputs, such as graduation rates and student
loan default rates," says College Factual CEO Bill Phelan.

These rankings differ from other lists and, according to Phelan, it's for good
reason. Instead of burying methodology in fine print at the bottom of the list,
College Factual puts theirs up front. Freshman retention rates, the number of
full-time teachers and student loan default rates are all key components in the
final rankings.

"We also rank colleges on many different aspects of the education they provide,
from overall quality, to best value, to best for a specific major. At the end of
the day though we want students to go beyond just rankings to discover colleges
that are a great match for them all-around."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              148 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            September 9, 2016 Friday

Yale keeps, No . 1 college ranking but Harvard gains;
College Factual uses different factors, methods beyond test scores to find the
best of the best

SECTION: ; Pg. Z3

LENGTH: 299 words


Yale University keeps its spot atop the list.

Harvard University rose from No. 5 to No. 2.

Yale remains the top university in the United States, according to data released
Thursday by College Factual. The private school in New Haven, Conn., is followed
by Harvard (which was No. 5 in last year's ranking) and the University of
Pennsylvania (which dropped from the No. 2 spot).

Duke University, which ranked third last year, slid to the fourth spot, just
ahead of Stanford University. Amherst College, Brown University, Cornell,
Princeton and Notre Dame round out the top 10.

College Factual, which aims to guide students through the college selection
process using outcomes-based data, examines a unique set of factors when putting
together their annual ranking, which feature appearances from the nation's
service academies - Naval Academy (22), Air Force (33) and Military Academy

(47).

"Many college rankings focus highly on inputs, such as student test scores, and
often include subjective elements such as surveys. College Factual rankings are
different as they focus highly on outputs, such as graduation rates and student
loan default rates," says College Factual CEO Bill Phelan.

These rankings differ from other lists and, according to Phelan, it's for good
reason. Instead of burying methodology in fine print at the bottom of the list,
College Factual puts theirs up front. Freshman retention rates, the number of
full-time teachers and student loan default rates are all key components in the
final rankings.

"We also rank colleges on many different aspects of the education they provide,
from overall quality, to best value, to best for a specific major. At the end of
the day though we want students to go beyond just rankings to discover colleges
that are a great match for them all-around."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              149 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     High Point Enterprise (North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday

High Point University moves up in college rankings

BYLINE: Darrick Ignasiak, High Point Enterprise, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 579 words


Aug. 18--HIGH POINT -- High Point University ranked third among comprehensive
colleges in the South in a report released Tuesday by U.S. News & World Report.

HPU was named No. 3 among comprehensive colleges in the South in "America's Best
Colleges" 2011 edition. Last year, High Point was listed at No. 5 in the same
report, and four years ago, HPU occupied the No. 15 spot.

"We are delighted to see High Point University skyrocketing in its rankings and
be counted among other top colleges and universities in the nation," HPU
President Nido Qubein said. "Appearing on a list such as 'America's Best
Colleges' proves that we are truly doing extraordinary things on our campus --
including growth in academics, student life and more."

The U.S. News & World Report list, which is the most closely watched of a
growing number of college rankings, is both credited for helping students and
families sort through a dizzying college selection process and criticized by
those who say it's too arbitrary and pressures colleges to boost scores at the
expense of improving teaching.

A change in how rankings are determined led to some shifts in the magazine's
"Best Colleges" rankings, which examines more than 1,400 accredited four-year
schools based on 16 factors. The rankings take into account factors such as SAT
scores, selectivity, graduation and retention rates, alumni giving and peer
reputation. This year, high school guidance counselors' opinions were added to
the mix.

In the "Regional Colleges" category, HPU placed above all other schools in North
Carolina and above all but two of the 96 colleges ranked in the region,
according to college officials. HPU ranked second in the "Up-and-Coming"
colleges category in the South, while Elon University ranked first in the
"Up-and-Coming" universities category in the South.

Among the top-ranked national universities in the report, Duke University ranked
9th, Wake Forest University placed 25th and the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill ranked 30th. N.C. State University ranked 111th in the nationwide
category, while The University of North Carolina at Greensboro ranked 191st in
the same category.

Elon University ranked second in the "Regional Universities" category, while
Appalachian State University placed ninth in the same category.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

RANKINGS: The following are the annual rankings by the U.S. News & World Report:

National:

1. Harvard University

2. Princeton University

3. Yale University

4. Columbia University

5. Stanford University

9. Duke University

25. Wake Forest University

30. University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

111. N.C. State

191. University of North Carolina at Greensboro

Second Tier: East Carolina University, North Carolina A&T State University

Liberal Arts:

1. Davidson College

166. Guilford College

Second Tier: Bennett College, Greensboro College

Regional South Universities:

2. Elon University

9. Appalachian State University

Regional South Colleges:

3. High Point University

24. Winston-Salem State University

To see more of the High Point Enterprise, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.hpe.com. Copyright (c) 2010, High Point Enterprise, N.C.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail services@mctinfoservices.com, or
call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States, call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100818-HP-HPU-moves-up-in-college-rankings-20100818

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HP


                      Copyright 2010 High Point Enterprise


                              150 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 20, 2017 Wednesday

Knox College Top 25 for Educational Value: U.S. News Rankings

LENGTH: 479  words



Galesburg: Knox College has issued the following news release:
Knox College is again ranked among the best colleges in the nation for
outstanding educational value. Knox is listed in the top 25 colleges in the
"Great Schools, Great Prices" ranking, released this week by U.S. News & World
Report. The magazine's annual "Best Colleges" rankings for 2018 were announced
this week online and in the magazine's September issue.


Knox is ranked 25th among liberal arts colleges in the "Great Schools, Great
Prices" category--a ranking that looks at both academic quality and cost of
attendance. The magazine's editors write that "The higher the quality of the
program and the lower the cost, the better the deal." Only colleges that were in
the top half of their overall classification were eligible for the educational
value ranking.
"Knox is again the only liberal arts college in Illinois in this highly
selective ranking of colleges," said Paul Steenis, dean of admission. "The
'Great Schools, Great Prices' ranking demonstrates that Knox is among the very
best in the nation at making a top-notch liberal arts education accessible for
students from all financial backgrounds."
In the overall National Liberal Arts classification, Knox is ranked 71st among
229 schools, rising six places compared to last year.
Knox is also ranked among the most ethnically diverse liberal arts colleges. A
diversity index of .58 places Knox among the top schools where, according to
U.S. News, "students are most likely to encounter undergraduates from a
different ethnic group from their own."
With 14% of students from outside the U.S., Knox also is nationally ranked for
international diversity. In its ranking, U.S. News states, "In a global culture,
befriending and learning to collaborate with students from other countries can
be rewarding personally and professionally."
"One of the most important elements of a Knox education is the preparation our
students receive to be active, engaged global citizens," said Paul Steenis, dean
of admission. "Learning and growing alongside others who will challenge us,
inform us, and encourage us to consider other perspectives and points of view is
key to that preparation."
Knox receives high marks from other major college ranking services. Washington
Monthly and Forbes magazines looked at how colleges promote community and
national service, and how they help graduates succeed in their careers.
Washington Monthly ranked Knox in the top 20 schools based on "what colleges do
for their country."
Forbes gives Knox high marks in its most recent "Grateful Grads Index," which
recognized the "Top 200 Best-Loved Colleges," based on the percentage of alumni
who makes gifts to Knox, and the amount donated per student.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 Education Week

                               September 12, 2007

Colleges Build Web Sites to Enable Campus Comparisons, Sans Ranks

SECTION: Pg. 1 Vol. 27 No. 3

LENGTH: 1380  words


In the wake of U.S. News &amp; World Report's annual rankings of "America's Best
Colleges," it's become almost a ritual to read in newspaper op-ed pages a small
voice of dissent: College rankings are bunk. They hurt education. There's got to
be a better way.

It's that time of year again, except that this time around, the voice is louder.
Long-established college associations and a nascent national organization are
either building or planning five free, Web-based college-information platforms
that may diminish the U.S. News lists' influence among high school counselors,
students, and parents.

The information templates now under construction or consideration differ in how
much and what kind of information they aim to provide, but they all have one
thing in common: No rankings.

"Products can be ranked, but education can't--it's a process," argued Lloyd
Thacker, a former high school counselor and the executive director of the
Portland, Ore.-based Education Conservancy. "The biggest problem with U.S. News'
rankings is that they are ranking--making fine-point distinctions that are not
supported by any scientific research."

That's not to say that the sudden rush among college associations to gather
information in a reader-friendly, online format stems only from officials'
dissatisfaction with the magazine's ranking system. Most of the four other
projects now under way were launched with U.S. Secretary of Education Margaret
Spellings' Commission on the Future of Higher Education in mind, if not in
direct response to it.

The commission's report, issued last year, recommended that more colleges
disclose students' test scores, graduation rates, and other information in a
consumer-friendly form as a condition of accreditation.

"There has been concern in the higher education community that Congress would
feel compelled to impose reporting standards," said Tony Pals, a spokesman for
the Washington-based National Association of Independent Colleges and
Universities, or NAICU, an organization of private higher education
institutions. "Rather than let the government determine what those variables
should be, what you're seeing is associations working to provide that
information."

NAICU plans to launch Sept. 26 its University and College Accountability
Network, an online platform with information on 500 of its 900-plus
members--including Harvard, Princeton, and Yale universities, all longtime
inhabitants of the upper reaches of U.S. News' list.

A Crowded Field

Other Washington-based college associations launching like-minded efforts
include the Association of American Universities, which represents 60 U.S. and
two Canadian research universities, as well as a joint effort by the American
Association of State Colleges and Universities, representing more than 430
public colleges and universities, and the 216-member National Association of
State Universities and Land-Grant Colleges, which represents public research
universities, land-grant institutions, and state-university systems.

The Annapolis Group, a network of 121 independent liberal-arts colleges whose
presidents meet each year in Annapolis, Md., is also in the early stages of
building a college-information Web site.

"We're all taking slightly different approaches," said Mr. Pals. While NAICU
takes no position on ranking colleges as U.S. News does, he added, it chose not
to rank colleges, because focus groups of high school students and their parents
didn't mention rankings among the data they most wanted to see.

"If we had been hearing from our focus groups that what they were looking for
was already in U.S. News' rankings, there would've been no purpose in doing
this," he said.

David E. Shulenburger, the vice president of academic affairs at the National
Association of State Universities and Land-Grant Colleges, said that the
Voluntary System of Accountability, its joint project with the American
Association of State Colleges and Universities, is not intended to steal thunder
from NAICU, or from any of the other information Web sites now on the drawing
board.

"I think at this point we've got a little intellectual competition as to what
benefits students the most," he said. And that, he added, is not a bad thing.

Sick of the `Frenzy'

While Mr. Shulenburger and other association leaders mentioned the Spellings
commission as having prompted their efforts, almost all of them also cited Mr.
Thacker's push.

Mr. Thacker founded the nonprofit Education Conservancy three years ago, after
about a dozen years of college-admissions work at several universities and some
17 years as a guidance counselor at Jesuit High School in Portland, Ore.

Watching the pressure ratchet up on high schoolers to forgo any activity not
explicitly intended to get them into an Ivy League school, he said, "it got to a
point that I couldn't take it anymore."

Mr. Thacker quit his counseling job and self-published a book, College Unranked:
Ending the College Admissions Frenzy, a second edition of which has been
released by Harvard University Press. He also started speaking out against
rankings at colleges.

Since then, he's collected pledges from 64 college presidents to boycott the
U.S. News rankings and not to use the rankings in promotional material for their
institutions.

"Lloyd has played an interesting part in this as a catalyst--to take this
lingering dissatisfaction and channel it more substantively," said William G.
Durden, the president of Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pa., and the chairman of
the Annapolis Group subcommittee studying alternatives to U.S. News' rankings.

While college leaders have grumbled about the rankings since they were
introduced in the 1980s, Mr. Durden said, now "the switch is from grumbling
about U.S. News to doing something about it. We have the information--let's use
it ourselves."

That's the idea behind a meeting of college representatives and other interested
parties that Mr. Thacker is holding at Yale on Sept. 25--a first step, he said,
toward creating what he hopes will be "a Web-based, robust research engine that
will be free for all and useful to people."

While he's glad to see other organizations' eagerness to provide college
information, Mr. Thacker said he's worried the sudden profusion of acronym-heavy
options will be more confusing than a single online resource to which all
colleges and universities contribute information.

"We don't want to do alphabet soup," he said. "The strength will come in how
comprehensive this will be."

Rankings' Staying Power

For all of their efforts, though, the organizers of the college-information
projects may face an uphill battle in trying to drag the admissions process away
from rankings, some high school counselors think.

Patrick J. O'Connor, the director of college counseling at the private Roeper
School in Birmingham, Mich., and a past president of the Alexandria, Va.-based
National Association for College Admission Counseling, said many newly minted
counselors have had no coursework in college advising.

Given their largely ad hoc, on-the-job training, and their ever-larger student
caseloads, he said, "I would imagine that many of them see the rankings as a
tool to help them in their first few years to sort things out."

Scott White, the director of guidance at the public Montclair High School in
Montclair, N.J., and a 25-year counseling veteran, said he's encouraged by the
rankings-alternative movement, but he's not sure the idea will take off.

"Having an effective list is important if it's read and respected, but it's
going to be hard to get it off the ground," he said. "U.S. News has really set
the bar, not necessarily in terms of the quality of the information, but in
terms of what people are reading."

For his part, U.S. News Editor Brian Kelly said in an interview that he's not
worried about recent declines in the number of colleges participating in the
annual survey of institutional reputations among college officials. This year,
only 51 percent of colleges chose to rate peer institutions--a decline of 17
percentage points since 2000.

And Mr. Kelly said the new surge of potential competition won't affect what his
magazine does.

"I have doubts that it's going to be as valuable as something that puts apples
next to apples and says, `This one is bigger than this one,' " he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2007 Editorial Projects in Education, Inc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 995 DOCUMENTS


            The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             April 1, 2014 Tuesday

Survey of college values gives Fayetteville State low ranking; FSU administators
dispute ranking

BYLINE: Gregory Phillips, The Fayetteville Observer, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 318 words


April 01--A national ranking of college values places Fayetteville State
University among the worst in the nation for the worth of its degrees.

The survey by PayScale rated colleges by return on vestment -- how much more
their graduates could expect to make than someone without a degree.

The rankings have drawn praise for their pragmatism and rebuke for using
incomplete data and for failing to acknowledge the inherent value of education.

FSU placed second-worst in the survey. The study had the average cost of a
degree for an out-of state student at $77,310, with a 20-year return on
investment of minus $95,700.

Chancellor James Anderson blasted the rankings last year after FSU performed
poorly, calling them "grossly distorted."

Spokesman Jeffrey Womble said Tuesday Anderson's remarks still apply.

"An FSU education changes the lives of graduates in ways that cannot be measured
fully by salary," Anderson wrote. "Our graduates are prepared to think
critically and solve problems in their professions, participate meaningfully in
civic life, and make good decisions about family finances and personal health.
These capabilities are especially important in a region marked by vast
disparities between needs of employers and the educational preparation of its
citizens."

Two other schools in the state, Shaw University and the University of north
Carolina at Asheville, also placed in the bottom five. Shaw was last.

Harvey Mudd College, a small, private, science-focused school in Claremont, CA,
topped the list. Ivy league colleges rounded out the top 10.

The full rankings list can be found at payscale.com/college
-roi/full-list/financial-aid/yes.

Staff writer Gregory Phillips can be reached at phillipsg@fayobserver.com or
486-3596.

___ (c)2014 The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) Visit The
Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) at www.fayobserver.com Distributed by
MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140401-FY-Survey-of-college-values-gives-Fayetteville-State-low-
ranking-FSU-administators-dispute-ranking-0401-20140401

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FY


                    Copyright 2014 The Fayetteville Observer


                              153 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                              July 22, 2011 Friday
                                Chennai Edition

Pecking order for colleges

BYLINE: M Ramya | TNN

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 1015 words



HIGHLIGHT: Anna Univ's Ranking Of 167 Engg Colleges Around Chennai Is Likely To
Annoy A Few & Throw Up Some Questions


Anna University of Technology,Chennai has issued a list ranking more than 100
private engineering colleges affiliated to it based on three parameters : pass
percentage of first year students in 2010-11,total number of answer papers
versus those in which pass marks were granted,and year of establishment versus
pass percentage.The grading,intended to guide students seeking admission to
private engineering colleges in the state,has thrown up some surprises and also
raised questions about the methodology.SSN College of Engineering,which is
considered the most sought after self-financing college,has been ranked fifth on
two of the three parameters and does not find a place among the top five
colleges on the third criterion.Meenakshi Sundararajan Engineering College and
St Joseph's College of Engineering,which are also considered betterrun than most
others,do not find a place among the top five.While most academics and experts
agree that students like N Ramprasanth,whose petition in the Madras high court
prompted the university to issue the ranking,need guidance to pick the right
college they are not convinced that such a ranking should be based on academic
excellence alone."I haven't been able to analyse the rank list fully so I cannot
comment.But I feel a 360-degree development should be considered.There have been
other more comprehensive surveys that have taken quality of teaching faculty and
research orientation into consideration.These have listed us ahead of other
colleges," said Kala Vijaykumar,president of SSN Institutions."Ranking colleges
on academic scores will only extend the coaching class syndrome in schools to
engineering colleges.Engineering education which needs to be more
application-oriented will become exam-oriented and this does not augur well,"
said SASTRA University planning and development dean S
Vaidhyasubramaniam.Academics felt that rankings based on academic scores alone
had several loopholes that could be used by colleges for personal gain since
they have control over internal assessment scores which make up 20% of the total
marks.There are instances of "poor quality" autonomous institutions giving their
students higher grades in internal assessment to gain an advantage in placements
and draw new students.Others said a ranking based purely on academic excellence
could be a case of misplaced credit."Assuming that the ranking on academic
scores is a good barometer for quality,does it mean an institution with minimum
of qualified faculty but with a high pass percentage achieved through the
individual hard work of students,is better than an institution with 100%
qualified faculty but a lower pass percentage?"

said professor Vaidyasubramaniam.Experts said several other criteria should also
be considered."The quality of the faculty and the teaching-learning process are
of utmost importance.Currently,there is no assessment of teaching
standards.Anyone completing BE is allowed to become a teacher.Research and
innovation could be another parameter," said educational consultant D
Nedunchezhiyan.Many suggested that parameters used by NAAC for grading arts and
science colleges and the National Board of Accreditation to okay engineering
courses could also be taken into consideration.Currently,an engineering college
is only required to inform if a course offered by it is accredited by the NBA
and for how many years."If ranking is essential it only makes sense for the
AICTE to do it rather than AUT.Colleges could pay an additional amount to have
such an independent body rate them," said Jayaprakash Gandhi.RANKING BY ANNA
UNIVERSITY BASED ON RESULTS OF 2010-2011 EXAM: RMD Engineering College RMK
College of Engineering & Technology Sri Sairam Institute of Technology RMK
Engineering College Sri Sivasubramaniya Nadar College of Engineering RANKING
BASED ON NO.OF ANSWER SCRIPTS EVALUATED (2010-2011 EXAM) RMD Engineering College
RMK College of Engineering & Technology RMK Engineering College Sri Sairam
Institute of Technology Velammal Institute of Technology RANKING BASED ON YEAR
ESTABLISHED RMD Engineering College RMK College of Engineering & Technology Sri
Sairam Institute of Technology RMK Engineering College Sri Sivasubramaniya Nadar
College of Engineering GRADING SYSTEM Though a step forward,experts are of the
view that the ranking system should be improved upon taking into consideration
many other parameters too WHAT ANNA UNIV OF TECH (CHENNAI) HAS ANNOUNCED: They
have ranked 167 engg colleges in and around Chennai on the basis of 2010-11 pass
percentage in first year BE Advantage: Informs students about recent academic
track record and broadly indicates quality of faculty Disadvantage: Various
criteria such as placement records,infrastructure,research output,etc are not
taken into account while ranking colleges OTHER EXISTING RATINGS SYSTEM:
National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) under the University Grants
Commission ranks arts and science colleges on a 'cumulative grade point average'
based on governance,infrastructure,faculty,research output,student
enrolment,teaching,evaluation,innovation and co/ extra curricular
activities.NAAC publishes the peer team inspection report on its website
Advantage: Serves as ready reckoner for candidates looking for good colleges
Disadvantage: Doesn't give a break-up of scores to show strengths and weaknesses
in various aspects National Board of Accreditation (NBA) under All India Council
for Technical Education (AICTE) gives accreditation to engg courses for three
years or five years.NBA is considering putting up this information on its
website Advantage: Tells students if the engg college has facilities and
standards as stipulated by AICTE Disadvantage: Offers very little information
beyond the period for which the course is accredited WHAT MADRAS HIGH COURT
ORDERED: It asked four branches of Anna University of Technology (AUT) to assign
a rank to each of the approximately 450-odd engg colleges in the state to help
students determine wh ich are the relatively better ones.They are to be ranked
based on academic performance.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     High Point Enterprise (North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 14, 2011 Wednesday

HPU keeps regional ranking

BYLINE: David Nivens, The High Point Enterprise, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 439 words


Sept. 14--HIGH POINT -- High Point University maintained its No. 3 ranking for
regional colleges in the South in the U.S. News and World Report "America's Best
Colleges" 2012 edition.

HPU tied with Meredith College in Raleigh and ranked higher than Catawba College
in Salisbury (16th) and Lenoir-Rhyne University in Hickory (28th) in the
category of colleges offering bachelor's degrees.

"U.S. News and World Report also ranked us No. 2 in Up-and-Coming Schools," said
Roger Clodfelter, HPU associate vice president of communication and culture. "We
are proud of these rankings, but we know the rankings only represent a glimpse
of our holistic learning environment. HPU has enjoyed exceptionally high
rankings from Forbes, Parade, Colleges of Distinction and more."

Previously, HPU earned No. 1 recognition in the Up-and-Coming category. Anderson
University in Anderson, S.C., took the top ranking this year.

Among the state's leading colleges, Duke University, Wake Forest University and
the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill ranked among the top 30
universities in the nation. North Carolina State University was 46th among
public universities.

Among regional universities in the South, Elon University was ranked second
behind Rollins College in Winter Park, Fla., and was followed by Appalachian
State at 10th and UNC-Wilmington at 11th.

America's Best Colleges is published annually by U.S. News & World Report. The
magazine surveys a total of more than 1,400 colleges and universities nationwide
for the rankings. The magazine ranks colleges and universities with a formula
based on opinion surveys and objective data that include graduation and
retention rates, faculty resources, selectivity, financial resources and alumni
giving. The opinion surveys, filled out by peer campus presidents, rate academic
reputation and quality.

U.S. News also ranks schools in separate categories that assess affordability,
undergraduate business programs, views of high school guidance counselors and
innovative programs.

dnivens@hpe.com -- 888-3626

The Best

National: Harvard and Princeton tied for top national university in the Best
Colleges rankings. They were followed by Yale, Columbia and Cal Tech; Duke
University ranked 10th and Wake Forest University 25th; University of North
Carolina-Chapel Hill ranked 29th.

Public schools: Top three: University of California, Berkeley; UCLA, University
of Virginia; University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

Liberal Arts: Davidson College, 11th

___ (c)2011 The High Point Enterprise (High Point, N.C.) Visit The High Point
Enterprise (High Point, N.C.) at www.hpe.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110914-HP-HPU-keeps-regional-ranking-0914-20110914

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HP


                      Copyright 2011 High Point Enterprise


                              155 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      The Free Press (Mankato, Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 13, 2011 Tuesday

Gustavus Adolphus, Minnesota State fare well in U.S. News & World Report
rankings

BYLINE: Tanner Kent, The Free Press, Mankato, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 466 words


Sept. 13--AMBOY -- The rankings are in.

The annual U.S. News & World Report college rankings were released Tuesday with
both Gustavus Adolphus College and Minnesota State University figuring
prominently -- though in different categories.

Gustavus ranked 81st among all liberal arts colleges in the United States and
40th in the "best values" list while MSU ranked 70th among four-year
institutions in the 12-state Midwest region.

"We're very pleased," said Gustavus President Jack Ohle, whose school routinely
ranks among the nation's top liberal arts colleges. "Anytime we're ranked in the
top 100, I think we should be proud."

MSU President Richard Davenport, too, said he was "pretty pleased" with MSU's
ranking. But, he cautioned that rankings don't tell the whole story. Even the
rankings themselves, he said, don't always agree.

In August, MSU was ranked in the top quartile of all four-year institutions
(public and private) in the country by Forbes magazine -- and was the
highest-ranked institution in the Minnesota State Colleges and Universities
system.

The methodologies for the U.S. News & World Report and Forbes rankings vary
greatly. The former focuses more on metrics such as four-year graduation rates,
student retention rates, faculty-to-student ratios and financial aid awards as
well as a survey of university officials; the latter focuses more on student
satisfaction and quality of education versus the cost of tuition.

"Rankings are just a snapshot," Davenport said. "We always tell students, 'Don't
make your decision based on rankings, whether they are good or bad.'"

Davenport said MSU's ranking will likely rise in coming years as it adds more
doctoral programs and continues to boost its reputation. He also said MSU's
ranking suffered from the most recent round of budget reductions, which included
the loss of 125 employees (about two-thirds were faculty).

Ohle said Gustavus' ranking reflects its intimate campus community. Ninety-seven
percent of students living in college-owned or affiliated housing and Gustavus
boasts a freshman retention rate of 91 percent. The student-to-faculty ratio is
11:1 and the four-year graduation rate is 81 percent.

Ohle added that Gustavus' ranking comes with a bit of additional significance
because the school is celebrating its 150th anniversary. This year, the school
welcomed its largest-ever incoming class and is beginning construction on a new
academic building.

"It all bodes well for the future," Ohle said.

This is the 28th year in which U.S. News & World Report has ranked colleges. Its
rankings are generally considered the most comprehensive and most anticipated of
all rankings.

___ (c)2011 The Free Press (Mankato, Minn.) Visit The Free Press (Mankato,
Minn.) at www.mankatofreepress.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110913-FP-Gustavus-Adolphus-Minnesota-State-fare-well-in-U-S-News-World-Report
-rankings-0913-20110913

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FP


                         Copyright 2011 The Free Press


                              156 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

U.S. News college ratings bring familiar results, familiar debate

BYLINE: Nick Anderson

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 919 words


St. John's College in Annapolis has long disdained the rankings game. The
liberal arts school, which focuses on the great works of Western civilization,
was known for not responding to requests from U.S. News & World Report for
information that the magazine uses to sort the nation's colleges.

U.S. News ranked the college anyway, listing it at 123rd among national liberal
arts colleges a year ago. This year, St. John's sent in some data. Lo and
behold, its ranking rose - soaring 67 places, to 56th - as U.S. News published
the 30th edition of its rankings Tuesday. It was the largest ranking spike among
liberal arts colleges that placed in the top 150 in both years.

Christopher B. Nelson, president of the 500-student school in Annapolis, said
St. John's decided to send U.S. News a statistical profile in response to
parents who wanted assurance that information they were finding in the magazine
about the school's finances, class size and other aspects was accurate. Nelson
said Monday he still opposes the rankings, noting that his school's sudden rise
on the list ought to raise questions.

"It should suggest something about the unreliability of the rankings, frankly,"
Nelson said.

The annual release of the U.S. News lists is a ritual that leaves many college
presidents ambivalent. The rankings provide valuable publicity for many schools
seeking attention in a highly competitive market. But they also define a
school's place in higher education through a single ordinal number derived from
a subjective formula.

Top among national universities in 2014-2015, says U.S. News: Princeton. First
among national liberal arts colleges: Williams.

Both schools held the title the previous year, and the year before that, and the
year before that. The last time Princeton was not No. 1 was 2010-2011, when it
was No. 2.

For those who track ups and downs in the top 10, Wellesley rose from seventh to
fourth among national liberal arts colleges and Middlebury College fell from
fourth to seventh. Dartmouth College in New Hampshire slipped out of the top 10
among national universities, moving from 10th to 11th.

Do these types of oscillations matter?

"Not really," said Brian Kelly, editor of U.S. News. "But some people go crazy
over very minute changes."

A Washington Post analysis of U.S. News rankings from the past five years found,
though, that some schools have showed significant movement in the rankings.

Among this year's top 100 national liberal arts colleges, the two largest
gainers since 2010-2011, aside from St. John's branches in Annapolis and New
Mexico, were Bennington College (from 122nd to 89th) and College of the Atlantic
(131st to 99th).

During the same time, these national universities listed in the top 100 rose
more than 20 steps: Texas Christian University (from 99th to 76th); University
of Massachusetts-Amherst (also 99th to 76th); and Northeastern University (69th
to 42nd).

"Northeastern is worthy of study," said Ralph W. Kuncl, president of University
of Redlands in California, who has written about variations in the U.S. News
rankings. Not long ago, Kuncl said, "Northeastern was a pretty sleepy Boston
wannabe." No longer.

The private university has gained prestige steadily during the past two decades,
first under a president who explicitly sought to raise the school's ranking,
Richard Freeland, and now under his successor, Joseph E. Aoun, who says that is
not his goal.

Stephen Director, Northeastern's provost, said Monday that the university has
improved graduation rates, expanded faculty and strengthened its curriculum.
"Our goal here has been to improve Northeastern along multiple dimensions,"
Director said.

Among the factors in the ranking formula are admission-test scores for incoming
freshmen, admission rates, graduation rates, student-faculty ratios, alumni
giving and perceptions of the school among its peers and high school counselors.

Admission policies play a key role in whether a school gets ranked. Sarah
Lawrence College, which had been unranked for several years, was listed as 59th
among national liberal arts colleges after it decided to consider admission-test
scores if students submit them. Hampshire College, which had been ranked 110th
in 2013-2014, was dropped from the liberal arts ranking after it decided it
would not consider SAT or ACT scores in admissions.

"We're not going to get into a big fight with U.S. News," said Hampshire's dean
of admissions, Meredith Twombly. "Obviously I question their logic and their
rationale."

Several schools in recent years, including George Washington University, have
acknowledged giving U.S. News erroneous data. Critics say these episodes show
the rankings are susceptible to manipulation. The magazine says the inaccuracies
have been isolated.

Among national universities in the District, Maryland and Virginia, three were
unchanged from the previous year's rankings: Johns Hopkins University (12th),
the University of Virginia (23rd) and the University of Maryland at College Park
(62nd).

Georgetown University moved from 20th to 21st, the College of William and Mary
from 32nd to 33rd, George Washington from 52nd to 54th, American University from
75th to 71st and Virginia Tech from 69th to 71st.

Others listed were Catholic University (which moved from 121st to 116th), George
Mason University (from 141st to 138th), Howard University (from 142nd to 145th),
University of Maryland Baltimore County (from 158th to 149th) and Virginia
Commonwealth University (from 167th to 156th).

nick.anderson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2014 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                            October 23, 2016 Sunday
                             NC Wilmington Edition

BYLINE: NC Vance Merton; The Washington Post; When looking for a ranking of the
top colleges in America, many parents, students and alumni have relied mainly on
one source for the past three decades: U.S. News and World Report. Now, college
ranking is all the rage. There are numbered lists for every taste, each with a
unique data-crunching formula. While U.S. News  rankings measure prestige   long
a matter of debate, with little variation among the top schools from year to
year   new ranking schemes seek to define which schools offer the best outcomes
for students, the best value, the best student experience. The proliferation of
rankings could shake up higher education, influencing not just how consumers
view the market but also how colleges position themselves in the competition for
students and faculty. The latest entrant is from the Wall Street Journal and
Times Higher Education of London, which this fall proclaimed Stanford University
the No. 1 school in the U.S. The new twist in this list is its use of results
from an online survey of students that attempts to measure engagement with
professors and satisfaction with the school. It also considers alumni salaries,
graduation rates and other factors. The effort s leaders say they are offering
an alternative to a U.S. News formula that they believe gives too much weight to
reputation and selectivity.  We just thought there was a very clear gap and an
opportunity to do something better for the U.S. consumers,  said Phil Baty,
editor of world university rankings for Times Higher Education. Sometimes
variations in formulas make little difference in the rankings they produce.
Eight of the top 10 universities on the U.S. News list were also in the
Journal/THE top 10. The other two were right behind. Johns Hopkins University
placed 10th in the U.S. News rankings and was 11th in the Journal/THE list. The
University of Chicago was third in U.S. News and 13th under the new ranking. The
top 10 in both lists are extraordinarily wealthy, private and exclusive,
enrolling fewer than 75,000 undergraduates in all. No matter what the metrics,
money matters. Many university leaders denounce rankings as misleading but
acknowledge their influence.  We all know that students read this, parents of
students read this, and so it has a kind of public significance,  said Hunter
Rawlings III, interim president of Cornell University in upstate New York. He
said he didn t much care that the Journal/THE list placed his school at No. 9,
higher than its U.S. News rank of 15th.  You can always feel good about that if
you want to,  Rawlings said.  But I want to know, what does that really tell me
about Cornell? And my answer is: Almost nothing.  But Purdue University
President Mitchell Daniels Jr. said he is proud that his university ranked 37th
on the new list (compared to 60th in U.S. News), and fourth among public
universities, tied with the University of California at Berkeley. Purdue plans
to trumpet the news on billboards in Indiana. Daniels said he applauds rankings
that focus on outcomes for students.  People are making an effort to measure
what really matters, better than before,  he said.  Even so, it s quite right to
say you have to look cautiously and critically at these.  There are other lists.
Forbes, Money and Kiplinger rank schools with an emphasis on value and outcomes.
Washington Monthly ranks them on how much good they do for the public. Niche
ranks on a variety of factors, including online feedback from students. Times
Higher Education has a separate global ranking that focuses on reputation and
research. The Washington Post averaged the ordinal rankings from several lists
to create a composite ranking, finding that, generally, the rankings tend to
reward the usual suspects: Stanford and Harvard were first and second;
UC-Berkeley topped public universities, with UCLA and the University of Michigan
tied for second. Amherst and Pomona ranked first and second, respectively, among
liberal arts colleges. U.S. News, which started ranking colleges in 1983,
remains a leading power in the field. It sorts schools based on selectivity,
faculty resources, graduation rates and surveys of college leaders and high
school counselors, among other factors. Robert Morse, the chief data strategist
for U.S. News, said the Internet has made it easier to publish rankings,
especially those that rely on public data.  We definitely welcome new ranking
organizations,  Morse said.  We believe the more information students have, the
better.  The Obama administration has spurred the evolution of rankings. Several
lists use data the U.S. Education Department unveiled in 2015 on its College
Scorecard website. The new figures show student loan repayment rates for each
college and the average salaries of former students who received federal
financial aid, 10 years after they started school. Analysts for Forbes, among
others, use the salary data. U.S. News does not.  Kids are bottom-line oriented,
rightly or wrongly,  said Richard Vedder, an economist who started ranking
schools for Forbes in 2008.  They re interested in having a ticket to
middle-class life after college, given the cost of college.  In most rankings,
major public universities tend to suffer in comparison with private schools.
Educators say that s unfair because the mission of the public university, which
can have 10 or 20 times the enrollment of a private college, is completely
different. So are the finances.  We have gotten to the point where we re
comparing too many apples and oranges, and it s counterproductive,  said Arizona
State University President Michael Crow. He heads a school with more than 70,000
undergraduates on campuses around the Phoenix area. ASU in Tempe ranks 131st
(Journal/THE) and 129th (U.S. News). But U.S. News also calls it the most
innovative school in the country   a designation Crow is happy to promote. UCLA
Chancellor Gene Block, whose school ranks 26th (Journal/THE) and 24th (U.S.
News), said rankings often fail to capture the combination of qualities that
make a university great, or a great fit for individual students   diversity,
access, excellence in research and teaching. But he s resigned to that.  The way
I look at it, as a university leader, you can t ignore rankings because
prospective students don t ignore them,  Block said.  We have to pay some
attention to them   not that we can do much about it.

SECTION: 1,A; GateHouse Media GM9; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1090 words


When looking for a ranking of the top colleges in America, many parents,
students and alumni have relied mainly on one source for the past three decades:
U.S. News and World Report. Now, college ranking is all the rage. There are
numbered lists for every taste, each with a unique data-crunching formula. While
U.S. News  rankings measure prestige   long a matter of debate, with little
variation among the top schools from year to year   new ranking schemes seek to
define which schools offer the best outcomes for students, the best value, the
best student experience.

The proliferation of rankings could shake up higher education, influencing not
just how consumers view the market but also how colleges position themselves in
the competition for students and faculty. The latest entrant is from the Wall
Street Journal and Times Higher Education of London, which this fall proclaimed
Stanford University the No. 1 school in the U.S. The new twist in this list is
its use of results from an online survey of students that attempts to measure
engagement with professors and satisfaction with the school. It also considers
alumni salaries, graduation rates and other factors. The effort s leaders say
they are offering an alternative to a U.S. News formula that they believe gives
too much weight to reputation and selectivity.  We just thought there was a very
clear gap and an opportunity to do something better for the U.S. consumers,
said Phil Baty, editor of world university rankings for Times Higher Education.
Sometimes variations in formulas make little difference in the rankings they
produce. Eight of the top 10 universities on the U.S. News list were also in the
Journal/THE top 10. The other two were right behind. Johns Hopkins University
placed 10th in the U.S. News rankings and was 11th in the Journal/THE list. The
University of Chicago was third in U.S. News and 13th under the new ranking. The
top 10 in both lists are extraordinarily wealthy, private and exclusive,
enrolling fewer than 75,000 undergraduates in all. No matter what the metrics,
money matters. Many university leaders denounce rankings as misleading but
acknowledge their influence.  We all know that students read this, parents of
students read this, and so it has a kind of public significance,  said Hunter
Rawlings III, interim president of Cornell University in upstate New York. He
said he didn t much care that the Journal/THE list placed his school at No. 9,
higher than its U.S. News rank of 15th.  You can always feel good about that if
you want to,  Rawlings said.  But I want to know, what does that really tell me
about Cornell? And my answer is: Almost nothing.  But Purdue University
President Mitchell Daniels Jr. said he is proud that his university ranked 37th
on the new list (compared to 60th in U.S. News), and fourth among public
universities, tied with the University of California at Berkeley. Purdue plans
to trumpet the news on billboards in Indiana. Daniels said he applauds rankings
that focus on outcomes for students.  People are making an effort to measure
what really matters, better than before,  he said.  Even so, it s quite right to
say you have to look cautiously and critically at these.  There are other lists.
Forbes, Money and Kiplinger rank schools with an emphasis on value and outcomes.
Washington Monthly ranks them on how much good they do for the public. Niche
ranks on a variety of factors, including online feedback from students. Times
Higher Education has a separate global ranking that focuses on reputation and
research. The Washington Post averaged the ordinal rankings from several lists
to create a composite ranking, finding that, generally, the rankings tend to
reward the usual suspects: Stanford and Harvard were first and second;
UC-Berkeley topped public universities, with UCLA and the University of Michigan
tied for second. Amherst and Pomona ranked first and second, respectively, among
liberal arts colleges. U.S. News, which started ranking colleges in 1983,
remains a leading power in the field. It sorts schools based on selectivity,
faculty resources, graduation rates and surveys of college leaders and high
school counselors, among other factors. Robert Morse, the chief data strategist
for U.S. News, said the Internet has made it easier to publish rankings,
especially those that rely on public data.  We definitely welcome new ranking
organizations,  Morse said.  We believe the more information students have, the
better.  The Obama administration has spurred the evolution of rankings. Several
lists use data the U.S. Education Department unveiled in 2015 on its College
Scorecard website. The new figures show student loan repayment rates for each
college and the average salaries of former students who received federal
financial aid, 10 years after they started school. Analysts for Forbes, among
others, use the salary data. U.S. News does not.  Kids are bottom-line oriented,
rightly or wrongly,  said Richard Vedder, an economist who started ranking
schools for Forbes in 2008.  They re interested in having a ticket to
middle-class life after college, given the cost of college.  In most rankings,
major public universities tend to suffer in comparison with private schools.
Educators say that s unfair because the mission of the public university, which
can have 10 or 20 times the enrollment of a private college, is completely
different. So are the finances.  We have gotten to the point where we re
comparing too many apples and oranges, and it s counterproductive,  said Arizona
State University President Michael Crow. He heads a school with more than 70,000
undergraduates on campuses around the Phoenix area. ASU in Tempe ranks 131st
(Journal/THE) and 129th (U.S. News). But U.S. News also calls it the most
innovative school in the country   a designation Crow is happy to promote. UCLA
Chancellor Gene Block, whose school ranks 26th (Journal/THE) and 24th (U.S.
News), said rankings often fail to capture the combination of qualities that
make a university great, or a great fit for individual students   diversity,
access, excellence in research and teaching. But he s resigned to that.  The way
I look at it, as a university leader, you can t ignore rankings because
prospective students don t ignore them,  Block said.  We have to pay some
attention to them   not that we can do much about it.

Princeton University, first in U.S. News and World Report rankings, is eighth on
a new Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education list. MICHAEL NAGLE/BLOOMBERG

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                             April 4, 2017 Tuesday

Miranda shock for Lady Shri Ram - Beaten by competitor, Premier women's college
to take stock

BYLINE: Basant Kumar Mohanty

LENGTH: 898  words


New Delhi, April 4: Coming seventh hurts.

From one of the best among all Delhi University colleges last year, the national
rankings released yesterday have come as a shock for Lady Shri Ram (LSR)
College.

But what appears to be especially galling is that it has been beaten hollow by
long-time competitor Miranda House.

LSR ranked seventh among colleges in the NIRF rankings released by the human
resource development ministry, while Miranda House stood first.

Even the little-known ARSD College, which figures low on students' perception,
ranked higher than LSR at No. 5.

The LSR governing body met this afternoon, although principal Suman Sharma said
the meeting was on a different issue. Asked about the rankings, Sharma said: "We
are going into the details. We will explore what has happened."

It's not difficult to see why the latest rankings have hurt LSR, which counts
St. Stephen's College as a competitor. The LSR website still shows the score the
National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) had given it last year -
3.61 on a scale of 5, one of the highest among DU colleges.

LSR, which started its journey in 1956, has long been the premier women's
college in the capital, ever since it wrested that position from Miranda House,
eight years its senior.

Earlier, it was Miranda House - a residential institution for women - that was
traditionally the college for Delhi's privileged class. Among its alumnae are
former Delhi chief minister Sheila Dikshit and CPM leader Brinda Karat.

LSR boasts an alumna no less famous - Myanmarese peace laureate Aung San Suu
Kyi, apart from the many women of eminence in fields as diverse as acting,
politics and science.

Alumni of both recall friendly rivalries over not just academic success - but
also over elements of their social life, from curfew times in hostels, to the
quality and variety of food in their mess.

The rankings released yesterday - the first time that colleges had been ranked
under a separate head among higher education institutions - came in this
competitive backdrop of nearly half a century.

A scrutiny of criteria-based performance in the National Institutional Ranking
Framework of both the colleges suggests that Miranda House had performed much
better, at least in research publications and citations.

A teacher at LSR, a college well known for its arts education, said the scope
for high research scores were limited in humanities compared to science
subjects. Miranda House offers undergraduate and postgraduate courses in both
science and humanities.

The uniform ranking parameters have failed to capture the excellence of LSR in
specific areas, particularly teaching, she said. "There should be some
customisation in ranking. A one-size-fits-all formula would do injustice to many
institutions like LSR."

Professor Sharma, the principal, too appeared to hint as much. "We will also
discuss if there is some issue with the parameters," she told this paper.

The college rankings are not just confined to Delhi. ARSD, which ranked fifth,
has beaten St. Xavier's of Calcutta and better-known colleges in Chennai and
Bangalore, too. Hence the scepticism about the rankings.

Asked whether LSR should start offering courses in science subjects, the faculty
member said such a move might dilute the character of the institution as a
leading liberal arts college.

The faculty member also pointed out that the NAAC team had visited the college
last year, while the NIRF rankings were based entirely on what the colleges
provide in their applications. In the NIRF assessment, the claims are not
cross-checked, she added.

Miranda House's overall NIRF score is 69.39 on a scale of 100. LSR has got
58.28. NIRF data show 25 PhD students are being guided by Miranda House. The
corresponding figure for LSR is nil.

HRD minister Prakash Javadekar had yesterday said better-ranked institutions
would get more funds.

Abha Dev Habib, who teaches at Miranda House, said linking an institution's rank
to funds was a flawed idea. "The government should look at all institutions and
(give) support according to their requirements. This idea of giving more funds
to top-ranked institutions would make ailing institutions suffer more," Habib
said.

An HRD ministry official said institutions whose performance is poor cannot be
given more funds because such a policy would suggest that laggards were being
rewarded.

Habib said Miranda House has contributed immensely to women's education and
emancipation.

"Even as we wish to celebrate this achievement of being listed as the topmost
college, we are filled with apprehensions and fear that this may come with a
push for autonomous status," she said.

"Our top rank has to be understood as a result of being part of Delhi
University."

Ranking data

Reputable Delhi University colleges might have stayed away from the NIRF ranking
exercise for 2016, but they are unlikely to avoid it next year.

The HRD ministry is set to use data supplied by all institutions for the All
India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE) for ranking them from next year.

Leading Delhi University colleges like St. Stephen's, Hindu, Hansraj, Kirorimal,
Ramjas, Delhi School of Economics and Venkateswara college did not provide data
in time for the latest NIRF exercise, so they were not ranked this year.

"From next year, the AISHE data would be used for rankings. There is no need for
separate data," a senior ministry official said.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2017 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 16, 2010 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Met 2 Edition

Colleges use student survey to counter list by U.S. News

BYLINE: Daniel de Vise

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1049 words


In the game of collegiate rankings, Loyola University Maryland is a perennial
backbencher, tucked away on an inside page of the annual U.S. News & World
Report list of "America's Best Colleges."

But on the National Survey of Student Engagement, Loyola is a strong performer.
It rates highly on measures such as academic challenge and student-faculty
interaction.

"The students are definitely the number one priority," said Dan Nieves, 21, a
Loyola senior from Merrick, N.Y. He learned of the university not from a
newsmagazine but from some friends who had matriculated there and "had nothing
but good things to say about it."

The U.S. News ranking and its imitators generally reward the same group of
wealthy and selective institutions. There is little room at the top, and
thousands of colleges do not make the list. And that has frustrated and angered
many university administrators, who resent it when their school is reduced to
one (poor) number.

The student engagement survey, abbreviated NSSE or "Nessie," is higher
education's response.

Introduced 10 years ago by Indiana University researchers as an antidote to U.S.
News, the survey has won buy-in from 1,400 colleges, with about half that number
participating each year. Rather than rank colleges on overall quality, it
attempts to quantify whether students at a particular school are learning,
through a battery of questions: How often do you raise your hand in class? How
many 20-page papers have you written? How often do you e-mail a professor? Each
college is measured against similar institutions, and over time. But there is no
overall ranking.

Measuring the experience

Marc Camille, vice president for enrollment management and communications at
Loyola, says he thinks the student engagement survey is "the best attempt at a
paradigm shift" since the dawn of college rankings three decades ago. "I don't
think there's anything else out there that's a better measure of the student
experience."

Twenty-seven years since the publication of the first U.S. News rankings,
academe is awash in alternatives. There are rankings by Forbes, Kiplinger,
College Prowler and Princeton Review; international rankings from Britain and
China; and many purportedly new and better measures that sort colleges on
everything from student course evaluations to the number of hits on a school's
Web site.

There is also a new generation of accountability systems, mostly from within the
higher education industry, that quantify colleges without ranking them. There is
Colleges That Change Lives, a book and nonprofit organization created to promote
a few dozen colleges buried in the U.S. News rankings. Another recent entry,
from the Association of College Trustees and Alumni, grades colleges on required
courses. (Harvard gets a D.)

The student engagement survey might be the most respected industry response to
the rankings. Yet, it remains virtually unknown outside academia, and it is of
limited use to the public. That's because the Nessie database is proprietary.

"It became clear fairly early on in the project that schools were not going to
go along with it if their information was going to be put out in the public,"
said Alexander McCormick, the survey's director. "We operate in a climate right
now of huge sensitivity toward comparisons of colleges and universities."

So, survey results at many participating schools remain private, although some
colleges promote their results. USA Today offers a searchable database of
schools willing to share their data.

"It'd be a great tool if all the 700 colleges actually made their Nessie survey
data public," said Bob Morse, director of data research at U.S. News.

Raising their profiles

Morse notes that the magazine's report has "made a lot of schools visible" with
its ever-expanding dossier of rankings. George Mason University in Virginia and
the University of Maryland Baltimore County, for example, have profited from
prominence on a U.S. News list of collegiate up-and-comers.

Loyola, in Baltimore, ranks third in U.S. News -- but in a comparatively obscure
category of regional universities offering master's degrees.

Few students know Loyola's scores on the student engagement survey. The school
rates higher than average for its institutional class on each of five
student-learning benchmarks. Enriching educational experiences? Two-thirds of
students study abroad. Student-faculty interaction? No class is led by a
teaching assistant.

The Rev. Brian Linnane, president of Loyola since 2005, said that when he reads
the U.S. News rankings, "generally I think, what I need to improve in those
rankings is money."

And the student engagement survey? "We really sink into it," he said.

The survey has limitations -- and critics. Thirty-one of the nation's most
selective schools do their own quality-assessment surveys through the Consortium
on Financing Higher Education. A school such as Pomona College, ranked sixth by
U.S. News, will find its competitors there, and not in the student engagement
database, said David Oxtoby, president of Pomona.

Oxtoby wonders, too, about the value of asking students to rate their own
colleges. A high score for a less selective college might reflect the bias of a
student who "comes to a place with low expectations, and the school exceeds
them," he said.

McCormick, the survey director, says questions chosen for the four-page survey
"come from a pretty long line of research" on how students acquire knowledge in
college. Although McCormick welcomes efforts to make the survey public, the
database remains primarily an internal tool for colleges looking to improve.

The president of Lynchburg College in Virginia credits the engagement survey
with driving several reforms in recent years.

To boost student-faculty interaction, Lynchburg introduced new study-abroad
programs led by professors, raising the share of students who participate from 4
percent to 25 percent in six years. The school revamped academic tutoring to
embed support in the most difficult classes, said Mari Normyle, assistant dean
for academic and career services. Lynchburg, like Loyola, has strong marks on
the engagement survey.

"It doesn't matter to us the pedigree of the students coming in," said Kenneth
Garren, president of Lynchburg. "What matters to us is what we do when we get
them."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: February 26, 2010 Friday



CORRECTION: A Feb. 16 Metro article about the National Survey of Student
Engagement, used by some colleges as a counterpoint to the rankings issued by
U.S. News & World Report magazine, misstated the name of another organization
that grades colleges. It is the American Council of Trustees and Alumni, not the
Association of College Trustees and Alumni. CLARIFICATIONS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Watertown Daily Times (New York)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 18, 2007 Saturday

North colleges ranked top tier

BYLINE: Alex Jacobs, Watertown Daily Times, N.Y.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 429 words


Aug. 18--St. Lawrence University, Clarkson University and SUNY Potsdam were all
ranked as top-tier schools in this year's U.S. News & World Report ranking of
"America's Best Colleges."

SLU officials have joined other small liberal arts colleges in criticizing the
ranking system.

"We're not excited about the ranking," college spokeswoman Macreena A. Doyle
said. "It has its usefulness, but the primary problem is the list format. The
scores may be one point apart, and in order for us to go up, others would have
to go down."

College administrators upset with the rankings began a letter campaign several
months ago, urging others in their profession to stop contributing to the
magazine.

Some members of the Annapolis Group, an alliance of liberal arts colleges of
which SLU is a member, have joined the protest. The college still participates,
Ms. Doyle said.

St. Lawrence, Canton, is ranked at No. 58 in the Top Liberal Arts Colleges list.
But because many schools tie in the rankings, SLU actually has the 31st-highest
overall score, Ms. Doyle said.

"For small liberal arts schools, it's a very personal experience and decision,"
Ms. Doyle said. "So it's very subjective. It depends on a million other
factors."

Clarkson University, Potsdam, was ranked No. 124 in the top tier of national
universities. With only 3,000 students, Clarkson is one of the smallest
universities included in the top tier, and ranks in the top 60 of private
universities.

The college's business supply chain management program was ranked 11th in the
nation. Clarkson's undergraduate engineering program was recognized as one of
the best in the nation, with a rank of 85.

SUNY Potsdam was listed among the top 100 public and private northern
universities for the ninth consecutive year.

"While it is gratifying to be recognized by U.S. News and World Report as an
exceptional regional university, we work hard to be more than the story numbers
alone can tell," college President John F. Schwaller said.

"America's Best Colleges" bases its rankings on surveys of college officials and
data such as student selectivity, faculty, financial resources, graduation rates
and alumni satisfaction.

To see more of the Watertown Daily Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.wdt.net. Copyright (c) 2007, Watertown Daily Times, N.Y.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070818-WE-COLLEGE-RANKING-20070818

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WE


                      Copyright 2007 Watertown Daily Times


                              161 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                     AUGUST 21, 1999 Saturday DCITY EDITION

COLLEGES IN THE REGION DRAW STELLAR GRADES IN ANNUAL REPORT / THE UNIVERSITY OF
PENNSYLVANIA, PRINCETON, SWARTHMORE AND HAVERFORD ARE AMONG SCHOOLS LAUDED IN A
MAGAZINE'S ROUNDUP.

BYLINE: James M. O'Neill, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

SECTION: CITY & REGION; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 654 words


Not only is the Philadelphia region chock-full of colleges, but an impressive
number appear to be top-notch. That's according to an eagerly anticipated,
though controversial, annual ranking produced by U.S. News & World Report
magazine.

Princeton and the University of Pennsylvania retained their top-10 status among
national universities. And Swarthmore College, after a year at No. 2, regained
the top spot among national liberal arts colleges in the latest version of the
survey, due out next week.

Haverford retained the No. 5 spot, and Bryn Mawr stayed in the top 20.

Among schools with a regional draw, Villanova took the top ranking in Northeast.
It was the ninth straight year Villanova placed at or near No. 1. The College of
New Jersey slipped from third to eighth.

"I see the ranking as a public endorsement of our commitment to rigorous
analytic training and the development of a social responsibility that's at the
core of our mission," said Swarthmore president Alfred H. Bloom. "One positive
aspect of these rankings is that they give small liberal arts colleges the same
visibility as large universities."

Administrators grumble that it is virtually impossible for statistical
comparisons to capture what is distinctive about a school. And they say the U.S.
News rankings fail to measure the quality of teaching.

Still, college officials acknowledge that the rankings carry weight with
consumers, and they anxiously anticipate their release each year.

"It's a very important element in the marketplace now, and you have to be
conscious of that whether or not you agree with the rankings," said Mark
Diamond, chief advancement officer at Bryn Mawr College.

The big surprise this year was the relatively small, science-oriented California
Institute of Technology. Cal Tech jumped from ninth to first among national
universities, bumping perennial heavyweights Harvard, Princeton and Yale.

To generate its rankings, U.S. News measures such factors as student-faculty
ratio, class size, admission selectivity, average SAT scores of admitted
students, financial resources, and alumni support.

The magazine tinkered with its formula this year, which helped Cal Tech. But its
rise only highlights the problem in comparing vastly different schools.

"The differences among institutions are what makes American higher education the
finest in the world. But those differences make it very difficult to rank them,"
said Penn president Judith Rodin. "Cal Tech is an extraordinary institution, yet
quite different from comprehensive universities like Harvard, Stanford or Penn."

Some complain that the criteria used to compare schools cannot capture a
school's unique character.

The magazine, for instance, tries to gauge alumni satisfaction by measuring
alumni giving. That puts the College of New Jersey at a disadvantage, because it
is a public school and gets its money not from alumni but from the state.

Bryn Mawr's Diamond said women's colleges also tend to look less selective
because they start with half the applicant pool.

Because students use the rankings to weed out their college choices, they have a
significant effect on the higher-education industry.

Bloom said being ranked first exposes Swarthmore to more prospective students,
which increases the school's applicant pool, which enables it to be still more
selective, which ensures its strong ranking.

Jesse Rosenblum, the College of New Jersey's public relations director, agrees.
"A good ranking gets students to look at us," he said.

Stephen Merritt, Villanova's enrollment dean, said the school's top regional
ranking helped boost applications from 7,000 to 10,000 over the past nine years.

"It brings talented students to campus," he said.

"Of course," he added, "the positive ranking only impacts actual enrollment if
the prospective students get the same positive feeling once they get on campus."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education
                               www.chronicle.com

                           September 8, 2017  Friday

Stop Looking at Rankings. Use Academe's Own Measures Instead.

BYLINE: Richard M. Freeland

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Opinion

LENGTH: 1278  words

ABSTRACT

A former college president explains why U.S. News's version is imperfect and
where families should look to choose a college.

FULL TEXT

[[photo id="83542" crop="square_850x850" align="center" size="full-width"
class=""]]

As the higher-education community begins the new academic year, we also prepare
for the latest round of college rankings from U.S. News & World Report. We can
expect coverage on which colleges have risen and which have fallen, followed by
the usual laments from institutions' presidents about how meaningless these
rankings really are. My own perspective as a former university president
differs, as I believe the rankings play a useful, though imperfect, role in
providing information.

But the larger concern is why, after all these years of criticism from
authoritative voices and significant progress on the part of academe in
responding to external demands for more transparency, the U.S. News rankings
continue to play such a powerful role in shaping public perceptions of
institutional quality.

The best context for thinking about the rankings is the broad movement for more
accountability in higher education, which dates from at least the 1980s and
reached a kind of crescendo with the Spellings Commission report of 2006. The
commercial success of U.S. News's rankings was an early signal of a craving for
information that would help prospective students and families make informed
choices. Indeed, one of the reasons I have defended the rankings is that a
significant percentage of the metrics - most notably graduation rates, faculty
qualifications, and investment in academic programs - are legitimate indicators
of academic quality. But I also welcomed them because I believed they would
foster competition, which would lead to a better system for informing the public
about institutional quality.

That prediction has more than been fulfilled. In recent years, many more
commercial publications have entered the arena with their own ranking systems.
The federal government has also gotten into the act with the College Scorecard
to complement its well-established Ipeds, or Integrated Postsecondary Education
Data System program. More important and potentially promising have been the many
efforts from within higher education to create accountability systems that allow
for comparisons among institutions along academically significant dimensions,
without resorting to the kind of simplistic format needed to produce an overall
ranking. Critics of the rankings are right to argue that assigning colleges and
universities a unique number on a linear scale is a folly.

Among the most impressive of the newer accountability efforts is the Voluntary
System of Accountability, sponsored in the wake of the Spellings Commission by
the Association of Public and Land-Grant Universities and the American
Association of State Colleges and Universities. On the private side, the
National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities developed a
University and College Accountability Network that includes profile data on the
organization's members, and the Council of Independent Colleges was an early and
strong supporter of accountability efforts. Especially notable are a new
generation of reports by state higher-education authorities providing data on
each state's public institutions, and, in the case of Illinois, private
institutions as well.

[[relatedcontent align="right" size="third-width"]] These reports typically
include graduation rates, net costs, scholarship possibilities, programs
offered, and student diversity. Just 11 years after the Spellings report, higher
education has come a long way in providing information about institutional
performance to the public, though the effort remains very much a work in
progress.

Why then, given all this progress, do the rankings, and especially the U.S. News
rankings, continue to have so much influence over public opinion about colleges?

A part of the answer is the sheer marketing power of the magazine. In addition,
the rankings tell readers something about institutional status, which remains an
important, even decisive, consideration for many applicants who may confuse
status with quality. A third factor is simplicity. The reports being produced
from within higher education tend to be complex, overwhelming readers with
information and requiring considerable work to compare institutional results. A
final reason is that there continues to be deep resistance within academe to
publishing data about what students actually learn.

This last point is especially troubling. According to an authoritative summary
of the accountability movement, by the mid-1990s there was general agreement
within higher education that providing information on learning outcomes needed
to be a central component of any accountability system. Moreover, early
iterations of the VSA included the requirement that participating colleges
administer one of three widely available assessments of intellectual
achievement: the College Learning Assessment, the Collegiate Assessment of
Academic Proficiency or the Measure of Academic Proficiency and Performance. In
the end, however, most participants backed away from this requirement or decided
not to publish results. There was too much resistance (especially from faculty
members) to standardized testing, combined with legitimate questions about how
much results on a single test could convey about student learning at particular
institutions.

While many colleges have developed programs to assess student learning (often
because of accreditation requirements), few systematically collect and even
fewer publish quantitative data that allow readers to compare student
intellectual achievement across institutional lines. Until this gap is filled,
higher education's systems of accountability will continue to be data-rich but
information-poor with respect to the quality of actual learning. The public will
be left to rely on commercial rankings as indicators of institutional quality

[[pullquote quote="Higher education has come a long way in providing information
about institutional performance to the public, though the effort remains very
much a work in progress." align="left" size="half-width"]] The most hopeful sign
that academe will find a way to measure and report student learning is a project
sponsored by the Association of American Colleges and Universities and the State
Higher Education Executive Officers Association that seeks to evaluate student
learning based on assessments of student work using trained readers to score
that work from selected courses at participating institutions. This approach is
attractive to faculty members because it eschews standardized tests and provides
information that is helpful in guiding curricular improvements. Twelve states
and 75 two-year and four-year colleges are testing this approach to determine
its validity in evaluating critical thinking, written communication, and
quantitative reasoning. Results are encouraging.

If this assessment method continues to hold up, it will allow both the public
and policy makers to easily understand measures of student achievement at the
state level and ultimately at the institutional level against national and
statewide benchmarks. It will also provide college leaders and faculty members
with information about their own institutions. All who care about the reputation
and quality of higher education, and who would like to replace commercial
rankings with a more valid system of measuring institutional quality, will
benefit from this effort.

Richard M. Freeland is president emeritus of Northeastern University and a
higher-education consultant.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tim Cook for The Chronicle
Stop Looking at Rankings. Use Academe's Own Measures Instead 1

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2017 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                              April 3, 2017 Monday

Top universities, colleges in India: Here are govt's 2017 rankings

LENGTH: 412 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, April 3 -- The Ministry of Human Resource Development on Monday
released the NIRF rankings, as per which the Indian Institute of Science at
Bengaluru in Karnataka is No 1 higher educational institute while the Indian
Institute of Management at Ahmedabad in Gujarat is the top management institute.

The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras has been ranked as the best
engineering college in India.

Deemed university Jamia Hamdard in Delhi is numero uno in pharmacy category,
while Miranda House in the national capital has been ranked the best college in
the country.

Bengaluru's IISc has also been ranked as the top university in India, as per the
second edition of India Rankings under the National Institutional Ranking
Framework (NIRF) released today by Union Human Resource Development Minister
Prakash Javadekar.

The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) secured second spot in the top university
rankings in India.

In the list of best colleges in India, Miranda House in Delhi was followed by
Loyola college in Chennai. This is the first time general colleges have been
ranked in the NIRF.

The rankings were made under five heads -- overall, university, engineering,
management and pharmacy.

Launched in 2015, NIRF is a methodology adopted by the HRD Ministry to rank all
institutions of higher education in India.

Over 3,300 institutes participated in the second edition of the India Rankings.

The rankings are crucial because government funding for institutions are
dependent on them.

Top 10 Universities in India 2017

1)Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru

2)Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi

3)Banaras Hindu University

4)Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, Delhi

5)Jadavpur University, West Bengal

6)Anna University, Chennai

7) University of Hyderabad, Telangana

8)Univesity of Delhi, Delhi

9)Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Coimbatore

10)Savitribai Phule Pune University, Pune

Top 10 Colleges in India 2017

1)Miranda House, Delhi

2)Loyola College, Chennai

3)Shri Ram College of Commerce, Delhi

4)Bishop Heber College, Tiruchirappalli

5)Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College, Delhi

6)St. Xavier's College, Kolkata

7)Lady Shri Ram College for Women, Delhi

8) Dayal Singh College, Delhi

9)Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College, Delhi

10)Women's Christian College, Chennai

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Early Times. For
any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                    Zee News

                              April 3, 2017 Monday

Top universities, colleges in India: Here are govt's 2017 rankings

LENGTH: 383  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, April 3 -- The Ministry of Human Resource Development on Monday
released the NIRF rankings, as per which the Indian Institute of Science at
Bengaluru in Karnataka is No 1 higher educational institute while the Indian
Institute of Management at Ahmedabad in Gujarat is the top management institute.


 The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras has been ranked as the best
engineering college in India.
 Deemed university Jamia Hamdard in Delhi is numero uno in pharmacy category,
while Miranda House in the national capital has been ranked the best college in
the country.
 Bengaluru's IISc has also been ranked as the top university in India, as per
the second edition of India Rankings under the National Institutional Ranking
Framework (NIRF) released today by Union Human Resource Development Minister
Prakash Javadekar.
 The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) secured second spot in the top university
rankings in India.
 In the list of best colleges in India, Miranda House in Delhi was followed by
Loyola college in Chennai. This is the first time general colleges have been
ranked in the NIRF.
 The rankings were made under five heads - overall, university, engineering,
management and pharmacy.
 Launched in 2015, NIRF is a methodology adopted by the HRD Ministry to rank all
institutions of higher education in India.
 Over 3,300 institutes participated in the second edition of the India Rankings.

 The rankings are crucial because government funding for institutions are
dependent on them.
 Top 10 Universities in India 2017
 1)Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru
 2)Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi
 3)Banaras Hindu University
 4)Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, Delhi
 5)Jadavpur University, West Bengal
 6)Anna University, Chennai
 7) University of Hyderabad, Telangana
 8)Univesity of Delhi, Delhi
 9)Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Coimbatore
 10)Savitribai Phule Pune University, Pune
 Top 10 Colleges in India 2017
 1)Miranda House, Delhi
 2)Loyola College, Chennai
 3)Shri Ram College of Commerce, Delhi
 4)Bishop Heber College, Tiruchirappalli
 5)Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College, Delhi
 6)St. Xavier's College, Kolkata
 7)Lady Shri Ram College for Women, Delhi
 8) Dayal Singh College, Delhi
 9)Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College, Delhi
 10)Women's Christian College, Chennai

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2017 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                            October 30, 2016 Sunday
                             Sunday Bulldog Edition

Ranking U.S. colleges all the rage

BYLINE: Nick Anderson

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1010  words



HIGHLIGHT: One university official said college rankings have "public
significance." Their proliferation could shake up higher education.Michael
Nagle/Bloomberg News


When looking for a ranking of the top colleges in America, many parents,
students and alumni have relied mainly on one source for the past three decades:
U.S. News & World Report.

Now, college ranking is all the rage. There are numbered lists for every taste,
each with a unique data-crunching formula.

While U.S. News' rankings measure prestige - long a matter of debate, with
little variation among the top schools from year to year - new ranking schemes
seek to define which schools offer the best outcomes for students, the best
value, the best experience. The proliferation of rankings could shake up higher
education, influencing not just how consumers view the market but also how
colleges position themselves in the competition for students and faculty.

The latest entrant is from the Wall Street Journal and Times Higher Education of
London, which this fall proclaimed Stanford University the No. 1 school in the
U.S. The new twist in this list is its use of results from an online survey of
students that attempts to measure engagement with professors and satisfaction
with the school. It also considers alumni salaries, graduation rates and other
factors.

The effort's leaders say they are offering an alternative to a U.S. News formula
that they believe gives too much weight to reputation and selectivity.

"We just thought there was a very clear gap and an opportunity to do something
better for the U.S. consumers," said Phil Baty, editor of world university
rankings for THE.

Sometimes, variations in formulas make little difference in the rankings they
produce. Eight of the top 10 universities on the U.S. News list were also in the
Journal/THE top 10. The other two were right behind.

Johns Hopkins University placed 10th in the U.S. News rankings and was 11th in
the Journal/THE list. The University of Chicago was third in U.S. News and 13th
under the new ranking. The top 10 in both lists are extraordinarily wealthy,
private and exclusive, enrolling fewer than 75,000 undergraduates in all. No
matter what the metrics, money matters.

Many university leaders denounce rankings as misleading but acknowledge their
influence.

"We all know that students read this, parents of students read this, and so it
has a kind of public significance," said Hunter Rawlings III, interim president
of Cornell University in upstate New York. He said he didn't much care that the
Journal/THE list placed his school at No. 9, higher than its U.S. News rank of
15th.

"You can always feel good about that if you want to," Rawlings said. "But I want
to know, what does that really tell me about Cornell? And my answer is: almost
nothing."

But Purdue University President Mitchell Daniels Jr. said he is proud that his
university ranked 37th on the new list (compared to 60th in U.S. News) and
fourth among public universities, tied with the University of California at
Berkeley. Purdue plans to trumpet the news on billboards in Indiana. Daniels
said he applauds rankings that focus on outcomes for students.

"People are making an effort to measure what really matters, better than
before," he said. "Even so, it's quite right to say you have to look cautiously
and critically at these."

There are other lists.

Forbes, Money and Kiplinger rank schools with an emphasis on value and outcomes.
Washington Monthly ranks them on how much good they do for the public. Niche
ranks on a variety of factors, including online feedback from students. THE has
a separate global ranking that focuses on reputation and research.

The Washington Post averaged the ordinal rankings from several lists to create a
composite ranking, finding that, generally, the rankings tend to reward the
usual: Stanford and Harvard were first and second; UC-Berkeley topped public
universities, with the University of California at Los Angeles and the
University of Michigan tied for second. Amherst and Pomona ranked first and
second, respectively, among liberal arts colleges.

U.S. News, which started ranking colleges in 1983, remains a leading power in
the field. It sorts schools based on selectivity, faculty resources, graduation
rates and surveys of college leaders and high school counselors, among other
factors. Robert Morse, the chief data strategist for U.S. News, said the
internet has made it easier to publish rankings, especially those that rely on
public data.

"We definitely welcome new ranking organizations," Morse said. "We believe the
more information students have, the better."

The Obama administration has spurred the evolution of rankings. Several lists
use data the U.S. Education Department unveiled in 2015 on its College Scorecard
website. The new figures show student loan repayment rates for each college and
the average salaries of former students who received federal financial aid 10
years after they started school. Analysts for Forbes, among others, use the
salary data. U.S. News does not.

In most rankings, major public universities tend to suffer in comparison with
private schools. Educators say that's unfair because the mission of the public
university, which can have 10 or 20 times the enrollment of a private college,
is different. So are the finances.

"We have gotten to the point where we're comparing too many apples and oranges,
and it's counterproductive," said Arizona State University President Michael
Crow. He heads a school with more than 70,000 undergraduates on campuses around
the Phoenix area. ASU in Tempe ranks 131st (Journal/THE) and 129th (U.S. News).
But U.S. News also calls it the most innovative school in the country - a
designation Crow is happy to promote.

UCLA Chancellor Gene Block, whose school ranks 26th (Journal/THE) and 24th (U.S.
News), said rankings often fail to capture the combination of qualities that
make a university great or a great fit for individual students - diversity,
access, excellence in research and teaching. But he's resigned to that.

"The way I look at it, as a university leader, you can't ignore rankings because
prospective students don't ignore them," Block said. "We have to pay some
attention to them."

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved


This document could not be formatted for delivery. If your delivery request
included other documents, they completed successfully.

                              167 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 20, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Some Colleges To Drop Out Of Rankings By Magazine

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 756 words

DATELINE: ANNAPOLIS, Md., June 19


The presidents of dozens of liberal arts colleges have decided to stop
participating in the annual college rankings by U.S. News and World Report.

The decision was announced Tuesday at the end of an annual meeting of the
Annapolis Group, a loose association of liberal arts colleges. After two days of
private meetings here, the organization released a statement that said a
majority of the 80 presidents attending had ''expressed their intent not to
participate in the annual U.S. News survey.''

The commitment, which some college presidents said was made by a large majority
of participants, represents the most significant challenge yet to the rankings,
adding  colleges like Barnard, Sarah Lawrence and Kenyon to a growing rebellion
against the magazine, participants said.

U.S. News says it provides a valuable service to parents and students in its
yearly evaluations, which are based on factors that include graduation and
retention rates, assessments by competitors, selectivity and faculty resources.
Critics say the ranking system lacks rigor and has had a harmful effect on
educational priorities, encouraging colleges to do things like soliciting more
applicants and then rejecting them, to move up the list.

''We really want to reclaim the high ground on this discussion,'' said Katherine
Will, the president of Gettysburg College and the incoming president of the
Annapolis Group. ''We should be defining the conversation, not a magazine that
uses us for its business plan.'' The association did not take a formal vote and
each college will make its own decision, Dr. Will said.

The members of the Annapolis Group also decided to develop their own system of
comparing institutions. The group intends to work with other higher education
organizations to come up with a common format with comparable data.

''They will do what they will do,'' Michele Tolela Myers, president of Sarah
Lawrence College, said of U.S. News and World Report. ''We will do what we will
do. And we want to do it in a principled way.''

Brian Kelly, the editor of U.S. News, said the magazine applauded any effort to
come up with new data. ''If they come up with some new data, fine,'' Mr. Kelly
said. He was also conciliatory toward the presidents who said they would no
longer cooperate with the magazine. ''If a few presidents don't want to
participate, we understand,'' he said.

Mr. Kelly said  more than 50 percent of the presidents, provosts and admission
deans who were  sent the annual survey of colleges' reputations continued to
fill it out. ''We think the vast majority of presidents and academics are still
supporting the survey,'' he said.

He left no doubt that the magazine would continue to produce its annual rankings
. ''We take our critics seriously, but we also think our ranking is valuable,''
he said.

The decision by the Annapolis Group comes on the heels of an effort this spring
by a dozen college presidents, several of whom belong to the association, urging
colleges to pledge not to participate in a critical section of the U.S. News
rankings -- a survey in which its asks presidents and other senior academic
officers to rate the reputations of other colleges and universities. That survey
is weighed more heavily in the magazine's rankings than any other factor.

Many presidents who favor no longer participating in the U.S. News rankings said
they expected the magazine to be able to continue to produce its annual rankings
because much of the data on things like admission and graduation rates are
publicly available. Colleges report most of that data to the federal Department
of Education.

But many presidents said it was time to disengage from the magazine. ''Frankly,
it had bubbled up to the point of, why should we do this work for them?'' said
Judith P. Shapiro, the president of Barnard College. ''It is a way of saying,
this is not our project.''

Other college presidents who attended the meeting were more cautious. Anthony
Marx, the president of Amherst, which is ranked second among liberal arts
colleges, said he was not ready to stop cooperating with U.S. News and wanted to
continue to discuss the issue.

Lloyd Thacker, the executive director of the Education Conservancy, a nonprofit
group that is campaigning to reduce the impact of rankings on college choice,
was invited to talk with the presidents at the meeting. Mr. Thacker said he was
heartened by the decisions, adding, ''I think it gave permission to those
presidents who were sitting on the fence to act in the public interest.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company

                              168 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    The News & Advance (Lynchburg, Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            July 30, 2008 Wednesday

Colleges score big again in review

BYLINE: Christa Desrets, The News & Advance, Lynchburg, Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 551 words


Jul. 30--Sweet Briar College's campus remains beautiful, Randolph College
diverse, and Lynchburg College "tight-knit" this year, according to The
Princeton Review's annual ranking of the top 368 colleges in North America.

All three local schools are on the list, and Randolph and Sweet Briar also took
several top-20 rankings for specific areas of academics and campus life.

"We are a pretty lucky community to have this many good schools," said Randolph
spokeswoman Brenda Edson.

Randolph took rankings for its diverse student population, good race and class
interaction, and students' happiness with financial aid, according to the
official rankings Web site.

The school also ranked for a lack of participation in intramural sports.

The ratings are based on 80-question surveys completed by 120,000 students who
attend the 368 designated top colleges.

"Those are things that make our campus unique," Edson said. "But we also take (
rankings) with a grain of salt. You can't just rely on rankings."

Sweet Briar College also ranked on several of the lists, but dropped this year
from most beautiful campus to second-most beautiful campus, trailing only
Princeton University.

The school also ranked for its good job placement services, encouragement of
class discussions, and accessible professors.

"That's what people pay to go to college for," said Dean Jonathan Green. "They
may pick a college because it's pretty, but ultimately what's truly valuable in
an educational experience is being able to interact with quality professors."

He said he was glad to hear that the student surveys didn't place the school on
any of the less-positive rankings.

"They have as many negative lists," he said.

Although Lynchburg College didn't rank on any of the top-20 lists -- either
positive or negative -- the official Web site provided insight on what LC
students said about their school in the survey.

Students called the college "tight-knit," with a "pretty little campus and a
(pretty) good academic setting," that helps "to prepare them for life."

"It's nice to be listed there," said LC President Kenneth Garren. "I think it's
important information, and (rankings) do mean something."

Garren can use information from the student surveys to improve the college, he
said.

Under a section on campus life, for example, LC students reported "not a whole
lot to do in Lynchburg" other than "go to Walmart, the dollar theater, and eat."

"It really is telling me that we have to do more about letting our students know
all the great things to do in Lynchburg," Garren said, "because it is a good
place to live."

The Princeton Review's annual college guide, "The Best 368 Colleges," went on
sale Tuesday. Ranking lists and school profiles also are posted on the official
Web site, PrincetonReview.com.

The Princeton Review is a New York-based education services company that is not
affiliated with Princeton University.

To see more of The News & Advance, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.newsadvance.com. Copyright (c) 2008, The News & Advance, Lynchburg,
Va. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080730-LY-Colleges-score-big-again-in-review-0730

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LY


                       Copyright 2008 The News & Advance

                              169 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   Morning Star (Wilmington, North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             August 31, 2015 Monday

Local community colleges don't make report's honor roll

BYLINE: Tim Buckland, Star-News, Wilmington, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 381 words


Aug. 31--SOUTHEASTERN, N.C. -- Area community colleges didn't fare well in a
ranking of community colleges released this week by an online financial website.

Cape Fear Community College in Wilmington ranked 205th and Southeastern
Community College in Whiteville ranked 599th among 670 community colleges
included in the ranking by WalletHub, which provides analysis to guide financial
decisions for everything from education and cars to banks and credit cards.

Cape Fear was 15th and Southeastern was last among the 31 community colleges in
North Carolina included in the rankings. North Carolina has 59 community
colleges.

David Hardin, Cape Fear's spokesman, didn't address the ranking when asked for a
response. His statement said the college's "faculty and staff, along with the
community as a whole, deserve the credit for making CFCC a model for
institutions to follow around the country."

Brunswick Community College was not included in the rankings. The survey left
out a significant number of schools, including 28 in North Carolina. It ranked
670 institutions nationally, though there are more than 1,100 nationwide,
according to the American Association of Community Colleges.

The site said it could not include all of the schools because of "data
limitations."

According to its website, WalletHub bills itself as "a one-stop destination for
all the tools and information consumers and small business owners need to make
better financial decisions and save money."

The site used 17 metrics to compile its rankings, including tuition costs,
student-faculty ratio, graduation rates and return on educational investment.

The top-ranked school was North Florida Community College in Madison, Fla. The
highest-ranking school in North Carolina was 7th-ranked Southwestern Community
College in Sylva. Taking the bottom spot in the survey was Terra State Community
College in Fremont, Ohio.

As a whole, North Carolina ranked 11th nationally, with Mississippi getting the
top spot.

To see the WalletHub study, go to www.wallethub.com/edu/best-worst-community-
colleges/15076.

Contact Tim Buckland at 910-343-2217 or Tim.Buckland@StarNewsOnline.com

___ (c)2015 the Star-News (Wilmington, N.C.) Visit the Star-News (Wilmington,
N.C.) at www.starnewsonline.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150831-WG-Local-community-colleges
-don-t-make-report-s-honor-roll-0831-20150831

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WG


                          Copyright 2015 Morning Star

                              170 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 23, 2015 Friday

North Carolina: Meredith College in U.S. News Top Colleges in the South

LENGTH: 314 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Raleigh: Meredith College, The State of North Carolina has issued the following
news release:



 Meredith College is ranked #5 among colleges in the South in the 2016 edition
of U.S. News & World Report's Best Colleges rankings. The College has
consistently been ranked in the top 10 by the publication, whose latest rankings
were released on September 9, 2015.





 Meredith was also named to the &ldquo;Great Schools, Great Prices&rdquo; list,
ranked 6th among regional colleges in the South. In determining this ranking,
U.S. News &ldquo;takes into account a school's academic quality, as indicated by
its 2016 U.S. News Best College ranking, and the 2014-15 net cost of attendance
for a student who received the average level of need-based financial aid.&rdquo;
The publication's &ldquo;Great Schools, Great Prices&rdquo; list considers
quality as well as cost.



 U.S. News also calls Meredith the #4 Best College for Veterans in the South.
This list, which includes institutions certified for the GI Bill and that
participate in the Yellow Ribbon Program, identifies schools that offer benefits
that make college more affordable for veterans and active duty military.



 The U.S. News ranking system places colleges and universities in one of four
categories: national universities, national liberal arts colleges, regional
universities and regional colleges. The rankings also divide colleges and
universities by the following regions: North, South, West and Midwest.



 Schools are ranked using several indicators including peer assessment,
graduation and retention rates, faculty resources (class size, faculty/student
ratio, percentage of full-time faculty), student selectivity (average SAT
scores, acceptance rate) and alumni giving percentage.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 3, 2013 Saturday

SUNYIT ranked 35th Best College for the Money in the nation

LENGTH: 426  words

DATELINE: St Utica


State University of New York Institute of Technology at Utica/Rome has issued
the following news release:

SUNYIT has been named 35th in a nationwide "Best Colleges for the Money" ranking
of more than 1,200 institutions evaluated by College Factual, an online guide to
the college selection process.

SUNYIT's ranking reflects its academic quality and economic value, based on the
cost of obtaining an undergraduate degree. College Factual uses a number of
outcomes-based factors to determine its rankings, such as average student loan
debt per student, loan default rates, how well an institution retains and
graduates students, and graduates' starting salaries and earning potential.

"With a record number of freshmen arriving on campus in just a few weeks, this
ranking is another reminder why more students are choosing SUNYIT," said
Jennifer Ninh, director of admissions. "As New York's public polytechnic, SUNYIT
is becoming a college of choice for an increasing number of students from across
the state and all over the region looking for both quality and affordability."

College Factual's ranking system is based on a series of algorithms that include
information from the Department of Education, nationally mandated data reporting
for institutions and Payscale.
"College rankings lists are a dime a dozen and often rely on data that provides
limited value. We publish rankings to get students and parents thinking about
key factors they need to consider when choosing a college," said Bill Phelan,
CEO of College Factual. "How long will it take you to graduate? How much debt
will you incur? How much money will you make? We highlight important factors
such as these in our rankings to help build personalized lists, which is the
ultimate goal in any college selection process."

SUNYIT, the State University of New York Institute of Technology at Utica/Rome,
is New York's public polytechnic, offering undergraduate and graduate degree
programs in technology and professional studies. Its academic offerings in
technology, including engineering, cybersecurity, computer science, and the
engineering technologies, and its programs in professional studies, including
business, communication, and nursing, are complemented by athletics,
recreational, cultural and campus life programs, events and activities. Founded
in 1966, SUNYIT is a unique high-tech learning environment on hundreds of acres,
offering degree programs online as well as on campus. The SUNYIT family of
alumni now numbers 25,000.

For more information please visit: http://www.sunyit.edu.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education

                             April 27, 2007 Friday

Report Calls for More Analysis as College Rankings Catch On Worldwide

BYLINE: MARTIN VAN DER WERF

SECTION: MONEY & MANAGEMENT; Pg. 45 Vol. 53 No. 34

LENGTH: 445 words


College rankings like those published by U.S. News & World Report are spreading
across the world in response to demand, but they vary widely in what they try to
measure and how they measure it, says a report from the Institute for Higher
Education Policy.

The institute, a Washington-based research group, recommends more global
cooperation among researchers and the publishers of rankings, and more research
into how the rankings affect "quality improvement in higher education."

"Magazine and newspaper ranking systems have clearly emerged as the third
dimension of the higher-education accountability marketplace, complementing what
takes place through private accreditation and government regulation," said Jamie
P. Merisotis, the institute's president, in a written statement. "With more than
20 different nations now engaged in some form of rankings that are regularly
published, it is clear they are popular and here to stay."

The U.S. News rankings, first published in 1983, have attracted a long list of
campus-based detractors, who find them simplistic. The magazine now combines
data in six general areas with the results of a survey of the perceived quality
of institutions to come up with an overall rank.

The report, "College and University Ranking Systems: Global Perspectives and
American Challenges," was released last week. It says most ranking systems in
other nations are similar, giving colleges one overall score.

The report refers to the various listings as "league tables," comparable to the
standings of teams in a sports league.

The report comprises three papers. One is a history of the U.S. News rankings,
written by Alvin P. Sanoff, who was managing editor of the project from 1992 to
1998. He says the rankings began as a marketing device for the magazine but
captured the public's attention in a way unforeseen by the editors, primarily
because of the increasing cost of higher education and the desire by students
and parents to differentiate among colleges.

Another paper, by Alex Usher and Massimo Savino, of the Educational Policy
Institute, summarizes the major rankings in other countries and the growing
trend toward comparing universities across borders to arrive at international
rankings.

The third paper, by Marguerite Clarke, argues that rankings have increased the
stratification of higher education because colleges, in trying to raise their
places, use their limited financial aid to "buy" better students. Poorer, less
prepared students are consequently consigned to less selective institutions, she
says. Ms. Clarke is an international education consultant and an adjunct
lecturer in education at Flinders University, in Australia.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2007 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 17, 2007 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

U.S. News's College Rankings Face Competition and Criticism

BYLINE: Valerie Strauss; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1109 words


It was 1983, and lists -- of books, movies, anything -- were the rage. U.S. News
& World Report, a struggling news magazine, decided to capitalize on the trend
and ask college presidents to rate rival institutions.

Now, the magazine's annual list ranking the nation's four-year colleges and
universities has become the center of a lucrative and controversial market of
guides aimed at helping students determine where to apply.

U.S. News will release the 2008 rankings online today and in the magazine
Monday. But this year's list comes amid a growing backlash. Critics, some of
whom produce their own college guides, have questioned the magazine's
methodology. At least 63 college leaders have signed a letter agreeing not to
fill out the reputation survey, which now accounts for 25 percent of the
rankings. More are expected to join in the boycott.

Over nearly 25 years, U.S. News has seen its rankings gain unprecedented
influence among schools; some have changed policy and awarded bonuses to
presidents and administrators who spearhead a leap in rankings, according to
educators. But as the magazine's influence has grown, so has the competition.

Princeton Review has a guide. So does Fiske. And Kaplan, which is owned by The
Washington Post Co., does, too.

There also are efforts to find new ways to present information on colleges and
universities without ranking them. The National Association of Independent
Colleges and Universities will introduce the University and College
Accountability Network online next month with profiles of hundreds of schools.

It is not, association spokesman Tony Pals said, a direct challenge to the
rankings but a response to a plea by families for better information.

Others are not shy about challenging the magazine.

"The existing rankings fall incredibly short of providing a comprehensive
picture of the quality of a university or college," said Tori Haring-Smith,
president of Washington and Jefferson College, whose Pennsylvania school has
fallen in ranking as it grew in size and became more selective.

Robert Franek, a vice president at Princeton Review and lead author of its
annual survey, "The Best 366 Colleges," released a letter this week asking
schools not to compare it with U.S. News. "There is the danger of lumping them
together," he said in an interview. "I just want to be very clear."

So how different are the various guides?

There are lists, surveys and testimonials that shower families with statistics
on freshman SAT scores, retention rates, average class size and more. U.S. News
Editor Brian Kelly said his magazine presents the only college rankings based on
a scientific formula -- which is proprietary -- and that the magazine shouldn't
be blamed if colleges make too much of the rankings and students misuse them.

He dismissed the Princeton Review's approach, which is based on interviews with
120,000 students: "Princeton Review just calls up bartenders and says, 'How many
people are in your bar?' "

Franek had little nice to say about Kelly's product: "I place no credibility on
hierarchical rankings. There is no way you can say 'This school is 1,and this
school is 401.' It doesn't resonate anymore. It's useless."

Edward B. Fiske of the "Fiske Guide to Colleges" said he believes his approach
has more credibility because it avoids gimmicks and quickly reacts to trends.

Fiske includes student interviews, though not as many as Franek's book, and
other information he collects as he travels the country. He said he decides
which colleges to include based on a variety of information -- some subjective
-- that changes year to year.

The Princeton Review includes 62 lists, not about academics but other elements
of school life, including which schools are most accepting of gays. He said a
survey of 6,000 people showed that only 9 percent said they would choose a
school because it was considered to have the best academics, while 53 percent
said they were looking for "the best fit."

The U.S. News rankings are different in approach and result.

Annually, the magazine ranks more than 1,900 schools based on massive amounts of
data collected from the schools and other sources, placing them in different
categories and tiers by mission and in some cases region. (Many schools complain
that it takes several days to assemble the information to meet the magazine's
format, even though much of the information is available from the Department of
Education.)

The editors say they use quantitative measures said to be reliable indicators of
academic quality, and rely on their own view of what is important to report,
such as student retention, faculty resources and alumni giving.

Kelly said the editors tweak their formula every year, offering improvements and
responding to critics. The 2008 rankings, for example, have reclassified more
than 200 schools in different categories and for the first time included
military service academies.

Critics call the changes a ploy to warrant new sales.

They also say that U.S. News puts large public schools at a disadvantage by
including the amount of endowment per student.

The belief that the higher the dollar number available per student inherently
means a better education is, said George Mason University President Alan Merten,
"just not true."

It is no wonder, critics say, that small elite colleges virtually always come
out on top.

In the rankings released today, Princeton University topped the list of best
national universities, followed by Harvard and Yale universities -- retaining
their positions from 2007.

Not everyone is ready to scrap the rankings. Deborah Balogh, provost and vice
president for academic affairs at the University of Indianapolis, thinks they
are useful to students and to the schools, allowing them to see how they "stack
up on several specific measures." She said that she believes reluctance to
participate "may be construed by the public as defensiveness about being
evaluated and held accountable."

Even those who don't submit information to the guides can see some merit in
them.

St. John's College President Christopher Nelson said he has chosen to ignore
them altogether and provides no data. Still, he said, the guides are valuable
because they provide narratives as well as data about many schools that a
student might never have known.

But he said he believes only a small group of the most competitive students
actually care a lot about the rankings.

"I think parents worry about it," Nelson said. "I haven't seen it with young
people. When you talk to students in high school, the overwhelming thing that
students say matters to them is a question of fit. 'When I go on that campus,
does it look like I belong there?' "

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 21, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Eckerd College Refuses Ranking

BYLINE: ADAM EMERSON, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 732 words


PRESIDENT CALLS REPORT A 'BEAUTY CONTEST'

By ADAM EMERSON

The Tampa Tribune

Likening it to a "beauty contest," the president of Eckerd College in St.
Petersburg decided this week to stop participating in the widely used college
rankings compiled by U.S. News & World Report.

President Donald Eastman joined a growing number of liberal arts college leaders
nationwide in lashing out at the magazine's method of annually ranking schools.

If U.S. News editors want the school's data, including student-faculty ratios
and graduation rates, they'll have to get it from the federal education agencies
that regularly compile statistics from public and private colleges, Eastman said
Wednesday.

"They are comparing apples and oranges and bananas," he said. "I don't want us
to participate in a process that says this is a good way to look at colleges and
universities."

Eastman made the decision this week during a two-day meeting of the Annapolis
Group, a Maryland-based association of liberal arts colleges. Eckerd, with about
2,500 students, is a member.

In a statement, the group wrote that a majority of the 80 presidents attending
had "expressed their intent not to participate in the annual U.S. News survey."

Rollins College in Winter Park, the only other Florida member of the Annapolis
Group, is not among that majority. Its provost, Roger Casey, said Wednesday that
Rollins will continue to send the magazine its data.

If U.S. News editors will seek the information anyway, the 3,700-student college
might as well ensure the data is accurate, Casey said. Doing otherwise would
only compromise the No. 1 ranking the magazine awarded last year to Rollins
among master's universities in the South.

Casey agrees with his colleagues that it "is problematic" to subject schools to
a single ranking. "But there are a lot of people who are interested in this," he
said.

Eastman, for one, knows that his ranking likely will drop. On the latest U.S.
News college ranking, issued last summer, Eckerd was placed in the third of four
"tiers" of the nation's liberal arts colleges.

College and university leaders have been reluctant to ignore the annual
questionnaire the magazine's editors send them. Many families see the ranking as
a one-stop shopping guide for schools. The University of South Florida, in its
recent drive to join the nation's elite public universities, has made improving
its spot in U.S. News and other university rankings a priority.

Eastman, however, says parents of students at Eckerd "are not reacting to U.S.
News."

More and more liberal arts college leaders are expressing the same argument.
Joining the rebellion are Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville, N.Y., Barnard
College in New York City and Kenyon College in Ohio.

"We really want to reclaim the high ground on this discussion," said Katherine
Will, the president of Gettysburg College and the incoming president of the
Annapolis Group. "We should be defining the conversation, not a magazine that
uses us for its business plan."

Several of the group's members urged colleges this spring to at least stop
responding to a key part of the U.S. News survey: soliciting presidents and
other senior college leaders to rate the reputations of other schools.

Eastman has for years refused to fill out that part of the questionnaire. "I
have felt that that beauty contest part of the U.S. News ranking was just
downright silly," he said.

Brian Kelly, the editor of U.S. News, told The New York Times that the magazine
applauded any effort to come up with new data. He added, though, that "if a few
presidents don't want to participate, we understand."

Kelly said more than 50 percent of the presidents, provosts and admission deans
who were sent the annual survey of colleges' reputations continued to fill it
out. "We think the vast majority of presidents and academics are still
supporting the survey," he said.

The results of Eastman's rebellion will have to wait until next year. The next
issue of U.S. News college rankings is due out this summer and will include data
Eckerd provided this year. Eastman's decision came after his college filled out
the magazine's most recent questionnaire.

Information from The New York Times was used in this report. Reporter Adam
Emerson can be reached at (813) 259-8285 or aemerson@tampatrib.com

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  Bar & Bench

                           July 22, 2011 10:09 AM EST

Law School Rankings: Bar & Bench to float new rankings; suggestions invited

LENGTH: 856  words


Back in August 2009, Bar & Bench published a story titled "A three-way shootout"
highlighting the discrepancies in college rankings published by three prominent
magazines. The article highlighted the flaws in ranking methodologies and their
impact on increasing ambiguity in rankings.

Back in August 2009, Bar & Bench published a story titled "A three-way shootout
(http://www.barandbench.com/../brief/1/24/a-three-way-shootout)" highlighting
the discrepancies in college rankings published by three prominent magazines.
The article highlighted the flaws in ranking methodologies and their impact on
increasing ambiguity in rankings.

In August 2010, Professor Shamnad Basheer and the students of the National
University of Juridical Sciences (NUJS), Kolkata wrote to the
(http://www.barandbench.com/../brief/2/933/nujs-takes-on-outlook-for-faulty-
ranking-methodology)Outlook
(http://www.barandbench.com/../brief/2/933/nujs-takes-on-outlook-for-faulty-
ranking-methodology) publication regarding the methodology used by the magazine
to rank colleges, specifically law colleges.

The NUJS letter (http://www.scribd.com/doc/60620642/Letter-Outlook-Final-1g)
listed 8 flaws in the methodology adopted by Outlook and provided details of
disparity in the methodology. As Outlook's reply to this letter was not
satisfactory to NUJS authorities; NUJS abstained from the 2011 Outlook rankings.

Also, recently Bar & Bench reported about the differences between Outlook and
Week rankings
(http://www.barandbench.com/../brief/2/1556/after-week-magazine-outlook-comes-ou
t-with-the-list-of-top-ten-law-colleges-who-should-we-trust-for-college-rankings
-) and concerns with the India Today rankings
(http://www.barandbench.com/../brief/1589/india-today-rankings
-out-statistics-raise-concerns-nalsar-1-nlsiu-2-nliu-bhopal-3-du-law-faculty-4-s
ymbiosis-5-wbnujs-6-updated).

Given the significant differences in ranking of certain law colleges, it appears
that rankings have become mere opinions or comments of news magazines. We are
all aware of the vast differences in the rankings published by India Today,
Outlook and The Week.

NUALS which was ranked 2 by The Week and 18 by India Today did not find a
mention in Outlook rankings. NLIU, Bhopal was ranked 3 by India Today and
Outlook; but The Week ranked them 11. Symbiosis Society's Law College, Pune was
ranked 5 by India Today, 6 by Outlook and 18 by The Week.  ILS, Pune was ranked
7 by India Today, 5 by Outlook and 21 by The Week. Faculty of Law, Banaras Hindu
University was ranked 8 by India Today, 7 by Outlook and 15 by The Week. NLU
Jodhpur was ranked 4 by Outlook, 10 by India Today and 25 by The Week. HNLU,
Raipur which was ranked 11 by India Today was not ranked by Outlook and The
Week. GNLU which was ranked 12 by India Today and 10 by Outlook was not ranked
by The Week. This is to list a few; there are so many other instances.

India Today (http://indiatoday.intoday.in/site/story/best-colleges
-in-india-2011-methodology/1/143628.html) and Outlook
(http://www.outlookindia.com/article.aspx?277253) magazines have used almost
similar methodology to come to different results and The Week has provided no
indication as to the methodology.

Therefore, we have decided to come out with law school rankings, where the
methodology and data collection is transparent. The rankings will be based on
ten broad parameters (in alphabetical order):

1)      Diversity of Courses /Subjects offered

2)      Entry Cut Off (based on CLAT)

3)      Exposure and Diversity of Students

4)      Faculty Quality

5)      Infrastructure (Hostel, Campus, Library)

6)      Journal Publications

7)      Location of the University

8)      Moot Court Performance

9)      Recruitment

10)   Research Initiatives

This being our first ranking exercise, we would like to limit the number of
colleges ranked by Bar & Bench to 30 top law schools in the country. We are also
constituting an expert panel to assess these law schools based on the empirical
data collected. The members of the Panel would consist of jurists, senior
lawyers, eminent academicians, law firm partners and industry representatives.
These top 30 colleges will be chosen by the in-house team at Bar & Bench along
with suggestions from the expert panel. Once these top 30 colleges have been
identified, we would proceed to obtain data about these law schools in order to
rank them under the above 10 parameters.

We, however, would put out the finalized parameters and weightage along with the
list of colleges that are considered to be ranked on September 5, 2011. For each
parameter certain points will be awarded subject to a maximum of 10. The overall
score would be out of 100.

Bar & Bench representatives and journalists will also visit individual
universities to collect data and relevant information. We are working with
expert statisticians in order to obtain error free and accurate data from the
universities.

Bar & Bench invites suggestions, recommendations if any from our readers on the
parameters or thoughts on the ranking process. Readers are welcome to send their
suggestions and views to lawschools@barandbench.com
(mailto:lawschools@barandbench.com).

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


             Copyright 2011 Bar & Bench, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              LNP (Lancaster, PA)

                               May 4, 2015 Monday

Study Rates Schools;
New Report Includes Online Database Of What Their Graduates Are Paid

BYLINE: Tim Stuhldreher

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 722  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


TSTUHLDREHER@LNPNEWS.COM

If your main concern in picking a college is the likely financial return in your
career, you'll want to check out the Brookings Institution's new rankings.

The D.C.-based think tank's model, released last week, focuses specifically on
colleges' economic impact: their effectiveness in preparing students for
high-paying careers.

The new rankings come at a time when tuition costs and student debt continue to
rise. Total student loan debt in the U.S. is $1.16 trillion, according to the
New York Fed.

Brookings has posted a searchable online database of more than 7,000 two-year
and four-year institutions, ranking them on percentile scales, 1 to 100, in
three categories:

- Mid-career earnings of their graduates;

- "occupational earning power," or what majors in the fields a college offers
typically earn;

- student loan repayment rates.

Brookings said its rankings take a "value-added approach."

"Compared to popular college rankings, the value-added method focuses on how
well colleges contribute to student economic success," it said.

'Very gratifying'

Scores for Franklin & Marshall College and Elizabethtown College ranged from the
60s to the 90s. Both achieved mid-career earnings scores of 93.

"The results are very gratifying," said Susan Traverso, E-town's provost.

A standard criticism of traditional rankings, such as US News' is that they
factor in reputation and selectivity. Schools that garner a lot of applications
can boost their rankings, as can those that have a history of being perceived as
elite.

The Brookings study instead tried to isolate and measure "the contributions that
the colleges themselves make to their graduates' eventual economic success."

That worked to E-town's advantage, Traverso said.

E-town has a mix of liberal arts and pre-professional majors, the latter
including fields such as engineering, she said. It has a robust financial aid
program and about 40 percent of its students are the first in their families to
go to college.

"We know we are a value-added school," she said.

Apples v. oranges

Scores for Millersville University were somewhat lower, in the 40s to 60s.

But it's "not a realistic comparison" to pit a State System of Higher Education
school head-to-head against liberal arts colleges, said Robert Kelchen, an
assistant professor of higher education at Seton Hall University who developed
Washington Monthly's university rankings.

Different categories of institution have different missions, attract different
kinds of students and have different financial resources. For those reasons,
comparisons across types have limited value, he said.

Also important: The rankings say nothing about the difference between getting a
degree versus not going to college at all.

"People can definitely take this the wrong way," he said.

Joseph Revelt, Millersville University director of institutional research, said
he hasn't looked specifically into Brookings' rankings.

There are many rankings out there, all with different criteria, he said. A lot
are "biased," he said, favoring elite schools that attract elite, affluent
students.

The flood of information creates a lot of uncertainty for people, he said. On
the other hand, if a college gets solid rankings from multiple sources, that can
increase prospective students' confidence that they reflect its "true
characteristics," he said.

Greater transparency

Kelchen, the Seton Hall professor, called Brookings' ratings "a step forward,"
both in their breadth and in their focus on outcomes rather than inputs or
reputation.

Brookings hopes its information will guide students and their families to make
more informed choices, study co-author Jonathan Rothwell said.

The report points out that choices about higher education are "among the most
important investment decisions individuals and families make."

As tuition costs rise, many people want "greater transparency in connecting the
college experience to economic reward," it said.

Brookings' results can assist policymakers and workforce development
professionals, too, Rothwell said. "We're trying to fill a large information
gap."

He and Kelchen both acknowledged that, as Kelchen put it, economic outcomes are
"just one component" of the value of a higher education.

Rothwell also acknowledged that the study is "provisional." Much more research
and refinement is needed, he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lnp File Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 LNP Media Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                           February 24, 2011 Thursday

OPECA flayed for asking colleges not to opt for in ranking

LENGTH: 396  words

DATELINE: Bhubaneswar


Bhubaneswar, Feb. 24 -- The All Odisha BPUT Students' Association (AOBSA) has
criticised the move of the secretary of Odisha Private Engineering College
Association (OPECA) for issuing an e-mail communication to all self-financed
engineering, MCA colleges asking them not to submit the institution
questionnaire for Odisha Professional College Ranking-2011.

The AOBSA said, "From this, we think that OPECA members are not interested to do
anything apart from making profit from the engineering education in this State
and earlier tried to pressurise the freedom of media by attacking the media
personnel. Even on the same communication, the OPECA Secretary mentioned that
the ranking was not recognised by Biju Patnaik University of Technology( BPUT)."

"Here we want to clarify that as per the BPUT formation Act 2002 passed in the
Odisha Legislative Assembly and BPUT statute of work; BPUT don't have any
authority to work over ranking related issues. The OPECA secretary is misleading
the public and colleges by misinterpreting the things and wants to take the
goodwill of Odisha Professional College Ranking-2011 in a wrong track," AOBSA
alleged.

"As per the decision taken by our general body meeting this year we have
provided fair chances to all affiliated and constituents colleges of BPUT to
represent their data; As earlier some colleges including the OPECA secretary
complained to us that colleges must be provided chance to represent them self.
Due to which we have adopted this mechanism," the student body said. "As per the
provision of Odisha Professional College Ranking-2011 if college will not submit
the data then the joint team of AOBSA and BPUT Students Portal will visit the
college and collect the requisite information from colleges and college do not
have any right to appeal over the issue. So we request all colleges
affiliated/constitutes college to submit the Information sheet by February 28.
After that date we will not accept any communication about the issues associated
to information sheet submission for Odisha Professional College Ranking. We hope
that you will co-operate us over the issue to uplift the technical education in
the State," the AOBSA said. Published by HT Syndication with permission from
Pioneer. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Erie Times-News (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 12, 2012 Wednesday

BRIEF: Erie area colleges improve in U.S. News rankings

BYLINE: Erie Times-News, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 161 words


Sept. 12--Several local colleges and universities were among the new U.S. News
and World Report Best College rankings released today.

Mercyhurst and Gannon universities were ranked as the 47th and 61st best among
regional universities in the north.

Edinboro University, which is slotted in the same region, did not receive a
ranking. Several of that university's graduate school and online programs were
recognized in the rankings, however.

Mercyhurst moved up two spots this year, from 49th in 2011.

Gannon fell nine spots in the region, from 52nd in 2011, but placed 12th in the
category "Best Value Schools."

Allegheny College in Meadville was ranked 82nd among national liberal arts
colleges. The college was one of only six in its category called an "Up and
Coming School."

Allegheny climbed four spots from ranking 86th in 2011.

___ (c)2012 the Erie Times-News (Erie, Pa.) Visit the Erie Times-News (Erie,
Pa.) at www.GoErie.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120912-EI-BRF-Erie-area-colleges-improve-in-U-S-News-rankings
-0912-20120912

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EI


                         Copyright 2012 Erie Times-News

                              179 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday

U.S. News college rankings: Amid predictability, some major shifts

LENGTH: 944  words

DATELINE: Long Beach


California State University has issued the following news release:

St. John's College in Annapolis has long disdained the rankings game. The
liberal arts school, which focuses on the great works of Western civilization,
was known for not responding to requests from U.S. News & World Report for
information that the magazine uses to sort the nation's colleges.

U.S. News ranked the college anyway, listing it at 123rd among national liberal
arts colleges a year ago. This year, St. John's sent in some data. Lo and
behold, its ranking rose -- soaring 67 places, to 56th -- as U.S. News published
the 30th edition of its rankings Tuesday. It was the largest ranking spike among
liberal arts colleges that placed in the top 150 in both years.

Christopher B. Nelson, president of the 500-student school in Annapolis, said
St. John's decided to send U.S. News a statistical profile in response to
parents who wanted assurance that information they were finding in the magazine
about the school's finances, class size and other aspects was accurate. Nelson
said Monday he still opposes the rankings, noting that his school's sudden rise
on the list ought to raise questions.

"It should suggest something about the unreliability of the rankings, frankly,"
Nelson said.

The annual release of the U.S. News lists is a ritual that leaves many college
presidents ambivalent. The rankings provide valuable publicity for many schools
seeking attention in a highly competitive market. But they also define a
school's place in higher education through a single ordinal number derived from
a subjective formula.

Top among national universities in 2014-2015, says U.S. News: Princeton. First
among national liberal arts colleges: Williams.

Both schools held the title the previous year, and the year before that, and the
year before that. The last time Princeton was not No. 1 was 2010-2011, when it
was No. 2.

For those who track ups and downs in the top 10, Wellesley rose from seventh to
fourth among national liberal arts colleges and Middlebury College fell from
fourth to seventh. Dartmouth College in New Hampshire slipped out of the top 10
among national universities, moving from 10th to 11th.

Do these types of oscillations matter?

"Not really," said Brian Kelly, editor of U.S. News. "But some people go crazy
over very minute changes."

A Washington Post analysis of U.S. News rankings from the past five years found,
though, that some schools have showed significant movement in the rankings.

Among this year's top-100 national liberal arts colleges, the two largest
gainers since 2010-2011, aside from St. John's branches in Annapolis and New
Mexico, were Bennington College (from 122nd to 89th) and College of the Atlantic
(131st to 99th).

During the same time, these national universities listed in the top 100 rose
more than 20 steps: Texas Christian University (from 99th to 76th); University
of Massachusetts-Amherst (also 99th to 76th); and Northeastern University (69th
to 42nd).

"Northeastern is worthy of study," said Ralph Kuncl, president of University of
Redlands in California, who has written about variations in the U.S. News
rankings. Not long ago, Kuncl said, "Northeastern was a pretty sleepy Boston
wannabe." No longer.

The private university has gained prestige steadily during the past two decades,
first under a president who explicitly sought to raise the school's ranking,
Richard Freeland, and now under his successor, Joseph E. Aoun, who says that is
not his goal.

Stephen Director, Northeastern's provost, said Monday that the university has
improved graduation rates, expanded faculty and strengthened its curriculum.
"Our goal here has been to improve Northeastern along multiple dimensions,"
Director said.

Among the factors in the ranking formula are admission-test scores for incoming
freshmen, admission rates, graduation rates, student-faculty ratios, alumni
giving and perceptions of the school among its peers and high school counselors.

Admission policies play a key role in whether a school gets ranked. Sarah
Lawrence College, which had been unranked for several years, was listed as 59th
among national liberal arts colleges after it decided to consider
­admission-test scores if students submit them. Hampshire College, which had
been ranked 110th in 2013-2014, was dropped from the liberal arts ranking after
it decided it would not consider SAT or ACT scores in admissions.

"We're not going to get into a big fight with U.S. News," said Hampshire's dean
of admissions, Meredith Twombly. "Obviously I question their logic and their
rationale."

Several schools in recent years, including George Washington University, have
acknowledged giving U.S. News erroneous data. Critics say these episodes show
the rankings are susceptible to ma­nipu­la­tion. The magazine says the
inaccuracies have been isolated.

Among national universities in the District, Maryland and Virginia, three were
unchanged from the previous year's rankings: Johns Hopkins University (12th),
the University of Virginia (23rd) and the University of Maryland at College Park
(62nd).

Georgetown University moved from 20th to 21st, College of William and Mary from
32nd to 33rd, George Washington from 52nd to 54th, American University from 75th
to 71st and Virginia Tech from 69th to 71st.

Others listed were Catholic University (which moved from 121st to 116th), George
Mason University (from 141st to 138th), Howard University (from 142nd to 145th),
University of Maryland Baltimore County (from 158th to 149th) and Virginia
Commonwealth University (from 167th to 156th).

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Kentucky)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Local colleges won't pull out of rankings

BYLINE: Joy Campbell, Messenger-Inquirer, Owensboro, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 622 words


Jul. 2--Owensboro's two liberal arts colleges will likely continue to
participate in the annual rankings report by U.S. News & World Report, officials
said last week, despite recent criticism of the news magazine's evaluations.

Last month, about 50 presidents at liberal arts colleges around the country
announced they planned to stop answering the U.S. News & World Report surveys
used to compile the rankings.

Katherine Will, president of Gettysburg College, told The New York Times: "We
really want to reclaim the high ground on this discussion. We should be defining
the conversation, not a magazine that uses us for its business plan."

The magazine has been providing information on U.S. colleges and universities,
including private and public liberal arts institutions, since 1983. The pool of
information includes such listings as graduation and retention rates, campus
ethnic diversity, "Best Value," assessments by competitors and how much
need-based aid is given.

The assessments by competitors category has garnered the most negative feedback.

Brescia University probably will continue to participate in the rankings, said
the Rev. Larry Hostetter, Brescia's president.

"I see no compelling reason not to participate," he said. "Inasmuch as it helps
people, it's probably a useful process."

Hostetter cautioned, however, that it's "not the end-all and be-all tool for
selecting a college or university."

U.S. News officials have reported they think the rankings provide a valuable
service to students and parents.

"We've been talking about that, and we know it's controversial around the
country," said Anne Cairns Federlein, president of Kentucky Wesleyan College.
"Some presidents are still supporting it."

Both Federlein and Academic Dean Mike Fagan said they want to gather more
information before they pull back from answering the survey.

The way information is collected can be imperfect, Federlein said.

Fagan said deans and presidents get the surveys every year and are asked to rank
institutions. That part of the survey is a "very biased operation," he said.

"The ones I'm familiar with, I provide a ranking," Fagan said. "I've heard
through the grapevine that some institutions are biased in the way they fill out
the survey, and that's a problem."

While there are imperfections in the system, the survey also does some good
things, he said.

"I think the solution is not to throw it out or not participate but to go to the
magazine and suggest better ways; it does more good than harm," Fagan said.

The latest assessment of the magazine's rankings came after the Annapolis Group,
a network of liberal arts colleges, announced that a majority of the 80 or so
presidents who attended two days of meetings had decided to stop answering the
survey.

The Annapolis Group didn't take a formal vote on the issue. Members decided to
develop their own system of comparing colleges and universities, according to a
story June 20 in The New York Times.

U.S. News Editor Brian Kelly said the magazine would welcome efforts from the
college presidents to develop a new process and indicated the magazine would
continue to produce its rankings.

Both Brescia and KWC have fared well in the U.S. News rankings in years past.

On its Web site, KWC plugs its ranking, "Top 10 Best Educational Values in the
South."

To see more of the Messenger-Inquirer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.messenger-inquirer.com. Copyright (c) 2007, Messenger-Inquirer,
Owensboro, Ky. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070702-OW-COLLEGE-RANKINGS-20070702

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OW


                       Copyright 2007 Messenger-Inquirer

                              181 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                           September 2, 2000 Saturday
                                  City Edition

UNL drops notch in annual rankings

BYLINE: MARTHA STODDARD Lincoln Journal Star

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 689 words


Down. Up. Down. Up.

This year the University of Nebraska-Lincoln slipped down again in the annual
U.S. News and World Report college rankings.

The university dropped into the third tier of national universities in the
magazine's 2001 list, after ping-ponging between the second and third tiers for
most of the past decade. Last year, UNL was in the second group.

But Interim Chancellor Harvey Perlman said he wasn't especially concerned about
the latest drop.

"We can't be worried in the sense of worrying about the quality of the
institution. These rankings have no relation to that question," he said.
"Universities are complex institutions that have strengths and weaknesses. The
fact of the matter is UNL does very well on some things and not so well on
others."

Perlman noted that UNL had better scores than many of the second tier
institutions -- and even a few of the top 50 -- on individual measures.

For example, 38 percent of classes at UNL have fewer than 20 students. That's
more small classes than 23 of the 54 second-tier schools and more than six of
the top-ranked schools -- a plus for students looking for a place where they can
get to know professors.

The university's reputation score, which counts for one-quarter of the overall
ranking, was better than 33 of the second-tier schools and two of the top-ranked
ones.

The problem arises when those scores are put together to create an overall
ranking, Perlman said. He noted that the magazine's own consultant, the National
Opinion Research Center, was quoted in the Chronicle of Higher Education as
saying that combining measures "lacks any defensible, empirical or theoretical
basis."

But U.S. News and World Report said on its Web site (http://www.usnews.com) that
the rankings are done to help students "make one of the most important decisions
of your life."

Investing in a college education can make a huge difference in a person's career
opportunities, earning potential and quality of life -- and picking the right
college is the first step toward that education.

However, the magazine cautions against choosing a college or university solely
on the basis of their rankings.

The U.S. News and World Report list followed on the heels of another study that
put UNL among the ranks of the "top American research universities."

The study by the Lombardi Program on Measuring University Performance put
Nebraska's flagship campus on a list of 47 public universities that placed in
the top 25 in one or more performance measures. The program is based at The
Center at the University of Florida at Gainesville,

UNL achieved that top ranking for both endowment assets, on which it was 25th,
and annual giving, on which it was seventh.

Other measures considered and the university's rankings were: federal research
dollars (66th), faculty members in national academies (68th), faculty awards
(51st), doctoral degrees (36th), postdoctoral appointees (64th) and entering
freshmen's SAT scores (54th).

Although not naming U.S. News and World Report, both UNL officials and the
authors of the report contrasted this study with other efforts to rank
universities.

"There are areas, of course, where improvement is needed and we will identify
those, but it is good to see a comparison study that uses quality data and in
which we excel," said David Brinkerhoff, acting senior UNL vice chancellor for
academic affairs.

Reach Martha Stoddard at 473-7251 or mstoddard@journalstar.com.

NEBRASKA RANKINGS  How Nebraska colleges and universities fare in the rankings
by U.S. News and World Report:

National universities: Tier 3, University of Nebraska-Lincoln.

National liberal arts colleges: Tier 4, Hastings College; Nebraska Wesleyan
University, Lincoln.

Regional universities: Tier 1, No. 1, Creighton University, Omaha. Tier 3,
Chadron State College; University of Nebraska at Kearney; University of Nebraska
at Omaha. Tier 4, Bellevue University.

Regional liberal arts colleges: Tier 1, No. 24, Doane College, Crete. Tier 2,
Concordia University, Seward; Dana College, Blair. Tier 3, College of St. Mary,
Omaha; Midland Lutheran College, Fremont; Union College, Lincoln. Tier 4, Peru
State College.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2000 Lincoln Journal Star,
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Brattleboro Reformer (Vermont)

                          September 20, 2012 Thursday

National poll: Bennington College most accepting of LGBT

BYLINE: DAWSON RASPUZZI / Bennington Banner

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 684 words


Thursday September 20, 2012

BENNINGTON -- A national poll has named Bennington College the most accepting
campus for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender students, although the ranking
is disputed by some.

The college ranking conducted by Unigo and featured recently in the Huffington
Post was based on responses from more than 30,000 college students grading their
own colleges on a list of topics, including, for the first time, "Best LGBT
Scenes," characterized as schools "where there's pride and no prejudice."

The Unigo ranking describes the student body at Bennington College as "open and
accepting."

"The attitude of its student body seems to be an almost unconscious belief in
the diversity and equality of sexual orientation and gender identity," the
ranking says about the school.

The ranking may not necessarily paint the entire picture of acceptance at the
private liberal arts college, though, according to Brooke O'Donnell, who
identified herself as a queer student and a leader of the college's LGBT student
group called "Queer*"

"To be completely honest, I do not agree with the ranking," O'Donnell responded
through e-mail. "There is a definite 'live and let live' outlook when it comes
to sexuality with most students. Perhaps if it were 'top LG-friendly schools'
the ranking might be more accurate, but definitely not LGBT."

In her four years at Bennington College O'Donnell has found students to be
apathetic and uninformed regarding issues of gender variance or sexual
orientations such as bisexual and transgender students.

"I've even seen people outright mocked for such identities, especially with
trans students. On top of that, administration and even teachers can be
hellishly unpleasant if you aren't gender-normative, especially with names and
the respect of preferred pronouns," she wrote.

The accompanying article with the Unigo rank states that Queer* (which recently
changed its name from Queer@Bennington) has not been around for as long as LGBT
groups on other campuses because there is little need for such a group at
Bennington College.

"Different sexualities and gender identities are already so accepted by the
community at large, so goes the logic, that the whole campus functions as a safe
space for LGBT students."

O'Donnell said the student body is generally accepting of gay students but there
is also a sense of apathy for them, which in her mind makes the group very
important.

"We actually do need a way to gather the people that are actually passionate
about doing something," she wrote. Queer* aims to build a community and safe
space for students to express themselves and be supported. "We want to educate
the student body as a whole by bringing in speakers, publishing zines, and other
things of the like, as well as connect with the student population as a whole
through hosting parties and musical performances," she wrote.

While O'Donnell refuted aspects of the ranking, she did acknowledge Bennington
College is more receptive of LGBT students than many.

Dean of Students Eva Sutton said the poll is reflective of what she observes
daily.

"Overall, we have a really open environment where students from lots of
different backgrounds feel comfortable and supported," Sutton said. "I think it
is an environment where students who are out feel comfortable."

In recent years, Bennington College has also appeared among the top 10
LGBT-friendly colleges numerous times in The Princeton Review's annual rankings
-- most recently ranking seventh.

Sutton said such publicity is beneficial and likely helps prospective students
get a better understanding of Bennington College as they consider different
schools.

"I think for students who are looking at climate issues it probably does help
them," she said. "My hope is they see Bennington as a tolerant place and that
makes it appealing."

Just behind Bennington College in the ranking is New York University and Amherst
College rounding out the top three. University of Vermont also cracked the top
10, coming in at number eight.

Contact Dawson Raspuzzi atdraspuzzi@benningtonbanner.com or follow on Twitter
@DawsonRaspuzzi.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2012 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                             April 4, 2017 Tuesday

IISc best varsity in India, JNU ranks 2nd

BYLINE: Kritika Sharma

LENGTH: 549  words


With the govt giving emphasis to rankings, HRD Minister Prakash Javadekar
announced that more grants would be given to institutions which fare better

New Delhi: According to the educational institute rankings released by the
Ministry of Human Resource Development, Miranda House has been declared as the
best college in the country, and the Indian Institute of Science, (IISc)
Bangalore named as the best university.

Jawaharlal Nehru University and Jadavpur University, the two universities from
where students have been at loggerheads with the government over the past one
year, have been declared as the second and fifth best universities of India.

While releasing these rankings, HRD Minister Prakash Javadekar said, "JNU and
Jadavpur have been ranked among the top for their good work, and not for the
objectionable sloganeering in the campus."

The Ministry of Human Resource Development on Monday released educational
rankings called the National Institutional Rankings Framework (NIRF) for the
best institutions in the country. There were a total of 525 colleges competing
for the ranking.

Six Delhi University colleges including Miranda House, Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma
College, Lady Shri Ram College for Women, Dyal Singh College, and Deen Dayal
Upadhyay College have been ranked among top 10 colleges in the country. Delhi
University, under the university category, has slipped two spots from last
year's rankings to stand at eight.

The Indian Institute of Science (IISc) Bangalore, which was ranked the best
institution last year as well, has been ranked as the best in two categories
this year - the best institute (overall), and the best university. The Indian
Institute of Technology, Madras and Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad
have been ranked as the best engineering and management institutes respectively,
for the second year in a row.

This is the second edition of India Rankings, an initiative started by the BJP
government in 2016. The first edition was released by HRD Minister Prakash
Javadekar's predecessor Smriti Irani. In this edition, a total of 2,995
institutions participated, which includes 232 universities, 1,024 engineering
institutions, 546 management, 318 pharmacy and 637 general degree colleges.

"India Rankings have ranked institutions on various categories including
university, colleges, management, engineering, pharmacy and management. An
overall rank across disciplines has also been provided to institutions that have
either 1,000 enrolled students, or which are centrally funded,"the HRD Ministry
said in a statement.

The institutions have been ranked based on various categories including
'teaching, learning and resource', 'research', 'graduation outcomes', 'outreach'
and 'perception'. While most of the categories are the same as the previous
year, some improvisations were made this year in sub-categories, which included
employers' perspective for the perception category, and giving weightage to the
number of citations of research papers to calculate rankings under the research
category.

The current government has been giving a lot of emphasis to rankings. While
announcing the rankings on Monday, HRD Minister also announced that more grants
would be given to institutes that have better rankings.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2017 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 30, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

How to judge a college? Not by arbitrary rankings

BYLINE: Kenneth P. Ruscio

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 612 words


The stream of college rankings turns into a flood this time of year. Magazines
and websites say their judgments hold institutions accountable and help
consumers make intelligent choices.   Noble virtues aside, it's also not a bad
business plan.

In the case of one magazine that otherwise can boast of no particular expertise
reporting on education, its rankings enterprise might be the only thing keeping
it in the public eye. It is aided and abetted by the schools themselves, who
tout the rankings when they provide some reed, no matter how thin, to hang on.
One college this year announced how one guide had named it the 13th "easiest
campus  to get around."  A strategic plan to make the top 10 is surely in the
offing.

Three years ago, I joined a group of college presidents who pledged never to
publicize our national rankings because to do so was to give them our
imprimatur. If we didn't take the rankings seriously, why give them prominence?
We could claim to be operating from a position of strength because we were,
after all, the presidents of the top 20 national liberal arts colleges.  The
irony was not lost on us. We didn't quite say, "Those of us in the top 20 wish
to call attention to our ranking by saying you shouldn't pay attention to our
ranking," but in this cynical era some thought we were doing just that.

So here at Washington and Lee, we watch rankings with bemusement and
self-discipline. What do we say when a prominent website ranks us the sixth
"strictest college in the country" the week before I meet with local residents
irate about our students' off-campus escapades? A local reporter, noting our
presence on this list and the absence of the neighboring military institute and
the Mormon-affiliated college down the road, came to the only conclusion: "Go
figure."

What do we do when Forbes.com ranks us 37th nationally,  and our excellent state
flagship university promotes its No. 44 Forbes.com ranking by proclaiming itself
the country's "top non-military-academy public university"?  Or how about a
school announcing that it ranks among the top 3% of the nation's colleges
because it is among the top 28% in Forbes.com, and Forbes.com reviewed only 9%
of all colleges?  They really did "go figure."

As an institution that takes some of its lead from our namesakes by trying to
act with some dignity, Washington and Lee cannot trumpet one publication's
labeling of us as one of the "hottest colleges of the decade."  We thought that
was a good thing, but one can never be too sure of the criteria.

Rankings are not evil. Students and families need information. Four years of
undergraduate education is not a trivial commitment. But the rankings game is on
the verge of parodying itself. Worse, it threatens to drive strategic decisions
on campuses in ways that have little to do with what should be important.

The most worrisome feature is that the frenzy feeds the bumper-sticker,
attention-deficit syndrome in our society, a trend that higher education should
forcefully resist. Not everything that matters can be measured; the most
important things in life are the least susceptible to quantification.

Bits of data do not define the best college, no matter how much they are
manipulated into the appearance, but only the appearance, of order and symmetry.
Complex judgments about quality should be, well, qualitative. And they should be
personal, informed by data but backed by intuition and self-awareness.

The false precision of the rankings is appealing, but a delusion. Thoughtful
amassing of data is not bad, but it is a terrible substitute for wisdom.

Kenneth P. Ruscio is president of Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va.


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                     PR.com

                      November 18, 2016 Friday 6:30 AM EST

The Top Seven Remain the Same in the 1USN/NCAA Football Rankings Despite Upsets
Galore

BYLINE: Ultimate Sports Network

LENGTH: 229  words


Mansfield, OH,  November 18, 2016 --(PR.com)-- #1/Alabama Crimson Tide (Last
Week #1)

#2/Ohio State Buckeyes (Last Week #2)

#3/Michigan Wolverines (Last Week #3)

#4/Clemson Tigers (Last Week #4)

#5/Louisville Cardinals (Last Week #5)

#6/Wisconsin Badgers (Last Week #6)

#7/Penn State Nittany Lions (Last Week #7)

#8/ Florida State Seminoles (Last Week #12)

#9/Arkansas Razorbacks (Last Week #8)

#10/Houston Cougars (Last Week #11)

The College Football Playoffs Rankings

#1/Alabama

#2/Ohio State

#3/Michigan

#4/Clemson

#5/Louisville

#6/Washington

#7/Wisconsin

#8/Penn State

#9/Oklahoma

#10/Colorado

This week's rankings were delayed so a comparison could be made between the
Ultimate Sports Network's Rankings and the College Football Playoffs Rankings.
The USN Rankings stayed the same from the previous week 1-7. Those rankings are
an exact match with the College Football Rankings 1-5. The USN Rankings dropped
the CFP's #6, Washington out of the Top Ten.

As stated last week, week #5 of the Ultimate Sports Network's NCAA Football
Rankings foreshadows a frantic rush to #1 in the upcoming weeks. Not to say that
the USN's rankings predicted the rash of upsets, but as the dust settles the
rankings of last week and this week closely resemble the College Football
Playoffs Rankings.

For more information and the complete rankings for all schools 1-128, please go
to www.ultimatesportsnetwork.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2016 PR.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Christian Science Monitor

                            July 19, 2007, Thursday

A better way to rank America's colleges

BYLINE: Catharine Bond Hill

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 844 words

DATELINE: Poughkeepsie, N.Y.


Many of us in higher education dislike popular college rankings such as the
annual academic beauty pageant from US News & World Report. But expecting them
to go away is naive, and attempting to undermine them is unwise since students
and families could perceive that as petulant and paternalistic. Worse, it could
seem as if we have something to hide.

What should higher education do instead? We should do what we do really well -
educate and contribute new ideas. We dislike the rankings because they imply an
objective ranking of a complex set of institutions, which we then worry has an
undue impact on students' choices. Our claim that useful data are already
available through our reporting to the government and elsewhere is a little
disingenuous, because those data are hard to access and not easily used to
evaluate and compare institutions.

Instead, we in higher ed should work to make available a better mousetrap, which
would decrease the importance of the existing rankings to students and families.
No rankings are perfect, but given families' interest in the judgments that
rankings offer, supplying a better alternative to the flawed commercial rankings
seems a better strategy for moderating their influence.

One way for higher ed to start would be to agree to send to a third-party
non-profit or foundation the same data that we already submit to US News and
other rating organizations, as well as sending other important data that we
regularly report. The third party would then make the data readily available
online, perhaps on a website.

Fortunately, efforts like this are under way at both the National Association of
Independent Colleges and Universities (NAICU), and the Annapolis Group, a
consortium of America's leading liberal arts colleges. The best possible result
of these initiatives would include an easy-to-use program to allow prospective
students and their parents to essentially build their own rankings. They could
decide which variables they value and how much, by assigning their own weights
to the criteria they care about. If you don't care about SATs, give them a zero
weight! If you care about small classes and the diversity of the student body,
weigh them heavily.

This do-it-yourself capacity would serve several functions. The decisions about
variables and weights would demonstrate to students and families that the
rankings are sensitive to these choices.

A one-size ranking does not fit all, because students and families care about
different things. It would also allow families to tailor the rankings to their
own particular concerns. US News has talked about making variable weights an
option. But choosing variables and weights has to be central, not optional, to a
useful ranking system for students and families.

Here is another way that one ranking system doesn't fit all colleges. What if a
school doesn't use the SAT in making admissions decisions and therefore doesn't
collect or report these data? In a new system, that school couldn't be ranked if
a student chose a positive weight for the SATs. Students would know that the
school doesn't value that piece of information. They could then run the rankings
with other information (maybe class rank and other indicators of academic
achievement), excluding the SAT, and see what those rankings look like.
Alternatively, they could decide they actually do care about the average SATs of
the student body and decide to look at other schools. Fair enough.

US News has some data that colleges don't. In particular, the magazine conducts
a reputation survey of college presidents and deans, which many people in higher
education find extremely problematic. One option would be for higher ed leaders
collectively to stop filling the survey out, so that US News didn't have the
data either. I suspect that US News would then turn to others, such as CEOs of
profit and nonprofit organizations, leaders in the public sector, and other
employers to fill out the survey. They could argue, after all, that they were
surveying the "users" of our final product - college graduates.

Another option for higher ed leaders would be to continue to do the reputation
survey in exchange for receiving the results. With these data also included in
the new rankings software, users could then decide for themselves whether they
think the reputation variable should play any role in their decision on a
college. Reducing access to information seems counter to what we do.
Demonstrating how to make good use of information seems a better strategy.

Rankings will always be limited in what they can tell consumers. Part of higher
education's role about the rankings should be to remind students and their
families that these are only one piece of information that they should take into
account in deciding where to go to college. Intangibles will and should play a
role in these decisions, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't also look at the
tangibles.

* Catharine Bond Hill is a higher education economist, and the president of
Vassar College.

(c) Copyright 2007. The Christian Science Monitor

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 The Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Chronicle of Philanthropy

                              June 29, 2007 Friday

Annapolis Group Challenges 'U.S. News' Rankings

BYLINE: ERIC HOOVER

SECTION: STUDENTS; Pg. 30 Vol. 53 No. 43

LENGTH: 755 words


Christopher B. Nelson, president of St. John's College, in Annapolis, Md., says
there is "real evil" in U.S. News & World Report's annual ranking of colleges.
So he was pleased last week when he and his colleagues at other private colleges
resolved to do something about it.

At the annual meeting of the Annapolis Group, which represents 124 liberal-arts
colleges, members agreed to develop a Web-based information system that would
provide families with "easily accessible, comprehensive, and quantifiable data"
on participating colleges. The organization said it planned to work closely with
the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities and other
education groups that have begun creating such a tool to provide prospective
students with better information about colleges.

Following its two-day meeting, in Annapolis, the group also announced that a
majority of about 80 presidents who attended the event said they would not
participate in U.S. News & World Report's annual rankings. (The group does not
set binding policies for member institutions, which will continue to decide
what, if any, information they share with the magazine.)

As announcements go, the Annapolis Group's written statement describing its
plans was not dramatic. It did not call U.S. News evil, or anything else. But it
did signal a "convergence" of strong opinions among presidents, according to
Katherine Haley Will, the Annapolis Group's chairwoman and president of
Gettysburg College.

"It was really palpable, the dissatisfaction not with U.S. News as a magazine
but with how they're claiming the conversation about who's better," said Ms.
Will. "We're the ones who ought to reclaim that. This isn't a system we feel
comfortable with anymore."

The meeting heartened presidents who have long criticized U.S. News, and
compelled others to see the rankings in a new light. Frances Lucas, president of
Millsaps College, in Mississippi, said she previously had paid little attention
to the rankings debate because her own institution was rated highly in U.S.
News. But after learning more about the magazine's methodology and discussing
the issue with colleagues at last week's meeting, she concluded that the
rankings were based too heavily on measurements determined by institutional
wealth.

"The worst tragedy is that leaders like me have been persuaded, oftentimes by
external constituencies, predominantly trustees, to manage toward winning in the
rankings," Ms. Lucas said. "I don't know of a college president that has managed
to win who doesn't regret it in this way: that we have taken valuable dollars
and focused way too much on attracting academically meritorious students instead
of the poor ones, and that's just wrong."

Ms. Lucas said she planned to stop completing the magazine's reputational
survey, which asks academic leaders to rate hundreds of colleges, and that she
would talk to Millsaps trustees about the possibility of removing all mentions
of U.S. News rankings from the college's promotional materials.

The heated discussions of rankings in Annapolis echoed the tone of a recent
letter by 12 college presidents that excoriated U.S. News for providing
misleading data that "degrade the educational worth ... of the college search
process." The letter -- which has circulated among hundreds of college
presidents and now has 36 signatures -- urges officials to boycott the
reputational survey and stop touting their rankings.

Lloyd Thacker, the man behind the letter and founder of the Education
Conservancy, hailed the Annapolis Group's actions as a victory for students.
"It's an encouraging sign that college presidents are willing to do the right
thing," Mr. Thacker said, "that they're going to step up and help this country
think its way out from under the influence of the rankings ... and exercise some
educational authority."

In a June 8 letter to Annapolis Group presidents obtained by The Chronicle,
Brian Kelly, editor of U.S. News, warned them that bowing out of the
reputational survey could have "unintended effects."

"The rankings have brought attention to some smaller and lesser-known schools,
some real hidden gems," Mr. Kelly wrote. "However, if fewer peer surveys are
completed and returned, the number of respondents rating such small,
lesser-known schools could drop below a statistically significant threshold,
placing these schools into an unranked category."

Many liberal-arts-college presidents have concluded that there are worse places
to be.

Elizabeth F. Farrell contributed to this article.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Chronicle of Philanthropy
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 27, 2007 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

A College Course in Cynicism

BYLINE: Robert J. Samuelson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 802 words


You might think that the last group to embrace censorship would be college
presidents. After all, they're interested in expanding knowledge, right? Well,
no. The incipient revolt against the college rankings by U.S. News & World
Report says otherwise.

At last count, presidents of 46 liberal arts colleges have said they will refuse
to participate in part of the U.S. News annual survey. The list includes such
well-known schools as Barnard and Kenyon. The presidents say the rankings are
"misleading" and "do not serve well the interests of prospective students."

Superficially, this seems a sensible blow against the increasingly frenzied,
stress-ridden college admissions process. It isn't.

For starters, remember that the hyper-competition applies mainly to the most
selective schools. On average, colleges and universities accept about 70 percent
of their applicants, says David Hawkins of the National Association of College
Admission Counseling. Roughly two-thirds of college freshmen are at their
first-choice schools, reports the Higher Education Research Institute at UCLA.

Moreover, the crush at prestigious schools isn't the result of U.S. News
rankings. America is a hugely competitive, status-conscious society. Admission
to an elite school is a trophy. The number of qualified students has increased
far faster than the number of openings. Eliminate rankings, and none of this
will change.

Any effects the rankings have on colleges' behavior (for instance: trying to
increase the number of applicants to become even more "selective") are trivial
by comparison. Over the years, I've done much reporting on college admissions.
As a jittery parent, I've also watched two children go through the process.
(Note: They ignored my advice.) From all this, I have reached three conclusions.

First,  how well people do in life depends mainly on their talents and
temperaments, not their college pedigree. This is not just my view; it's the
conclusion of much academic research. A dummy who goes to Amherst won't become a
genius; a genius who goes to Podunk remains a genius. Good opportunities exist
at most schools.

Second, the cutthroat competition to get into elite schools is as much among
parents as students. Parents want bragging rights: "Howard and Mary got into
Harvard. Look at the great job we did raising them."

Third, the U.S. News rankings actually relieve the stress slightly by enlarging
the pool of "elite" schools. Everyone knows that Williams (rank: 1) and
Swarthmore (3) are top liberal arts colleges. But the first 10 also include
Carleton College (6) in Minnesota, Pomona College (7) in California and Davidson
College (10) in North Carolina. The use of semi-objective standards dilutes raw
snobbery. (The same leveling applies to U.S. News's separate ranking of national
universities.)

It's hard to see how students and parents would benefit if the rankings
vanished. (Full disclosure: Brian Kelly, U.S. News's editor, is a friend; I
write for a competitor, Newsweek.) No one claims the ratings are perfect.
Differences of 10 or even 20 places probably don't mean much. Still, the ranking
tables also expose users to masses of objective, comparative information: SAT
scores; acceptance rates; graduation rates; student-faculty ratios.

The people who would really benefit from an end to the ratings are college
presidents and deans. They get pestered by alumni, donors, parents: Why isn't
our school higher? If you're 87th and a traditional rival is 56th, it's
embarrassing.

Unsurprisingly, many complaining schools don't rank high. Some seem further down
the list of colleges than their old-line reputations imply. Barnard is at 26;
Kenyon at 32. Others are lower: Dickinson, 41; Sarah Lawrence, 45; Earlham, 65.

It's not that colleges don't compete ferociously for students or, when it suits
their purposes, tout rankings in their marketing. Kenyon's Web site brags that
it's one of Newsweek's 25 designated "New Ivies." Barnard notes a survey by Time
and the Princeton Review that "40 percent of the 10 nicest dorms in the country"
are at women's colleges.

What's so shameful about this campaign against the rankings is its
anti-intellectualism. Much information is in some way incomplete or imperfect.
The proper response to evidence that you dislike or dispute is to supplement or
discredit it with better evidence. The wrong response is to suppress it. And
yet, that's the agenda of these college presidents. By not cooperating with  the
U.S. News survey, they hope to sabotage the rankings. They say they'll provide
superior information. But they want to control what parents and students see.
This is soft censorship.

What their students will learn, if they're paying attention, is a life lesson in
cynicism: how eminent authorities cloak their self-interest in high-sounding,
deceptive rhetoric.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         Erie Times-News (Pennsylvania)

                           August 20, 2005, Saturday

Rankings rate Northwest Pennsylvania colleges

BYLINE: By Erica Erwin

LENGTH: 760 words



The region's colleges and universities are making the grade as some of the
nation's best.

All five area schools are ranked in the latest edition of U.S. News & World
Report's "Best Colleges," which hits newsstands Monday.

U.S. News bases the rankings on 15 factors, including student retention,
graduation rates and selectivity.

Here's where local colleges and universities stand:

ALLEGHENY COLLEGE: Allegheny slid a few notches from its previous ranking into a
five-way tie for No. 88 out of 110 schools labeled the nation's "Best Liberal
Arts Colleges." That's a drop from its No. 83 standing in 2004.

"Being in the top 100 schools of the national liberal-arts category is a real
honor," said Scott Friedhoff, vice president for enrollment who serves on the
advisory board of the magazine for the rankings issue. "The company we keep are
very, very fine schools. ... In any one year, drop or gain in any position is to
be expected."

The college also posted another drop in another category: Liberal-arts colleges
with 2004 graduates with the heaviest debt loads.

Allegheny stood at No. 3 on the list in 2004, when the magazine reported that 75
percent of students graduated with an average debt of $ 23,735 upon graduation.
Allegheny ranks No. 13 this year despite an increase in the percentage of
students with debt (78) and the average debt ($ 23,846).

The school's tuition this year is $ 26,650.

The magazine again recognized Allegheny's senior project as one of 15 senior
"Programs to Look For" in the nation. The college's service learning program and
undergraduate research projects also were highlighted.

EDINBORO UNIVERSITY: For at least the third year in a row, Edinboro University
of Pennsylvania was included in the fourth tier of "Northern
Universities-Master's," schools which offer undergraduate and master's programs.
The report defines northern universities and colleges as schools in the New
England and Middle Atlantic states, plus Maryland, Delaware and the District of
Columbia.

The schools in the fourth tier are ranked between Nos. 130 and 167; schools in
that tier do not get an individual ranking.

GANNON UNIVERSITY: Gannon University jumped to No. 37 out of 165 schools in the
"Northern Universities-Master's" list of best colleges. That's another move up
the rankings ladder for the university that snagged the No. 45 spot in 2004.

Gannon's ranking has consistently improved since 2002, when it was listed at No.
55.

The school also ranked ninth in the magazine's "Great Schools, Great Prices"
category.

The list takes into account academic quality, tuition and financial aid awarded.
Gannon's average cost to students after grants, $ 16,046, placed it second-best
among the other 15 schools in the northern region.

Gannon University President Antoine M. Garibaldi called the rankings
"exceptional," crediting the university's student body, fund-raising efforts,
investment in technology and a commitment to keep tuition low.

MERCYHURST COLLEGE: Mercyhurst dropped one spot from 2004 to No. 10 among best
"comprehensive colleges" in the North and 10th among "best buys" in that
category.

Since first appearing in the rankings nine years ago, Mercyhurst has steadily
moved from its position at No. 19.

Thomas Gamble, the college's vice president of academic affairs, said in a
written statement that the improvement in the college rankings is indicative of
the college's reputation and faculty.

"While there are many legitimate criticisms of the U.S. News collegiate
rankings, it is always gratifying to see that our sense of the value and quality
of a Mercyhurst education is widely shared," he said."

PENN STATE BEHREND: Behrend is No. 1 when it comes to low faculty-to-student
ratio among public colleges in Pennsylvania, a move up from the No. 2 spot in
2004.

Behrend is ranked 15th among the 66 public universities in the northern region
and 62nd among all northern schools offering master's programs.

Among other Pennsylvania colleges in Behrend's category, it tied for first in
SAT scores among the freshman class, second for graduation rate and second in
first-year retention rate.



-----

To see more of the Erie Times-News, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.GoErie.com.

Copyright (c) 2005, Erie Times-News, Pa.

Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News.

For information on republishing this content, contact us at (800) 661-2511
(U.S.), (213) 237-4914 (worldwide), fax (213) 237-6515, or e-mail
reprints@krtinfo.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

KR-ACC-NO: EI-COLLEGE-RANKINGS-20050820

JOURNAL-CODE: EI

               Copyright 2005 Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News
                 Copyright 2005 Erie Times-News (Pennsylvania)

                              190 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                             January 9, 2009 Friday

Pomona College gets top honors

BYLINE: By Wes Woods II, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 376 words


CLAREMONT - Pomona College has been ranked the best value among American liberal
arts colleges on one list and ninth best on another.

"You never know whether the outside world recognizes this, and that's the
question," Pomona College President David Oxtoby said of the rankings. "I'm
pleased, but not surprised."

Pomona College was ranked first among liberal arts colleges by Kiplinger's
Personal Finance Magazine in its February edition.

Princeton Review's 100 "Best Value Private Colleges" for 2009, ranked Pomona
College ninth.

The Princeton Review used surveys of students and administrators at more than
650 private and public universities and colleges.

The review also took into account the three areas of financial aid, academics
and costs of attendance using more than 30 factors from the 2007-08 academic
year.

"It takes almost a year to put together the entire survey and collection
process," Robert Franek, Princeton Review vice president-publisher, said Friday.

In general, the schools on the list "do an exceptional job" of keeping the
indebtedness for students very low when they graduate.

"Students are graduating with very little debt upon completion of their
degrees," Franek said.

Franek said Pomona College has received high marks in the last five years of the
Princeton Review's rankings.

Also on Kiplinger's list for best value of liberal arts colleges were Claremont
Mc- Kenna College, which ranked 12th, and Scripps College, which ranked 35th.

For Princeton's Review's best value private colleges, Harvey Mudd College was
ranked in the top 50, though not in the top 10. The review did not issue
rankings below the top 10 and instead listed those colleges alphabetically.

"It never hurts to be named to anyone's top 50 list," said Harvey Mudd spokesman
Don Davidson.

Davidson called the validity of lists and rankings "questionable."

"But I think the Princeton Review ranking is unique because it's derived in a
large part based on the opinions of students. A lot of rankings aren't based on
student surveys," Davidson said.

Oxtoby said for him the message of the rankings was simple.

"I think the main purpose is to get the message out that a top, outstanding
education can be affordable," Oxtoby said.

wes.woods@

inlandnewspapers.com

(909) 483-8549

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: With a drinkin hand three people walk through the gates of Pomona
College inClaremont January 8, 2009. Pomona College was ranked the best
valueamong liberal arts colleges by Kiplinger's Personal Finance Magazinein its
February 2009 edition. (Thomas R. Cordova/Staff Photographer)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 5, 2013 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

College rankings

BYLINE: ;Jenna Johnson

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 471 words


If college rankings are to be believed, Warren Wilson College in North Carolina
has the most liberal students, the College of Wooster in Ohio has the smartest
professors, and Rice University has the happiest undergrads. And the very best
college in the country is Princeton. Or Harvard and Princeton in a tie.

It doesn't take a bachelor's degree to figure out that most college rankings are
at best highly flawed and at worst completely bogus. Rankings formally started
back in the early 1980s, when U.S. News & World Report came up with measurements
to judge the nation's top universities so consumers could vet a school before
enrolling. The list weighs many factors, including academic reputation,
retention and graduation rates, faculty pay and credentials, incoming student
test scores and alumni donations.

Over the years, this methodology has become complicated and controversial - and
sometimes the results are inaccurate. In the past year, U.S. News publicly
shamed a number of schools for fudging their numbers or outright cheating.
George Washington University lost its No. 51 ranking after school officials
disclosed that they had accidentally miscalculated the academic credentials of
incoming freshmen.

U.S. News likes to describe its rankings as a public service to consumers - but
sales of magazines, books and Web advertising driven by clicks have been highly
profitable for the company. And that success and exposure prompted others to get
into the game. Even the Obama administration recently unveiled a college
scorecard Web site. It has data on nearly every college in the country and
focuses on graduation rates and affordability, which some have criticized as an
overly simple way to compare schools.

The worst rankings are those that attempt to evaluate such things as party
scenes, dorm food and even professors' looks - based on online surveys,
questionable statistics and unfair stereotypes. There is no way such lists help
students properly pick a college.

While rankings are often the starting place for many college searches, most
families tend to make their final decisions based on information provided
directly by the school. Other factors, such as cost, distance from home and a
campus's atmosphere during a whirlwind tour - and, frankly, gut instinct - can
be far more influential than rankings. While a sliver of the population enrolls
at the nation's most selective, top-ranked colleges and universities, many more
attend institutions you've probably never heard of, schools that are not always
forthcoming about their abysmal graduation rates, sky-high student debt loads,
teetering accreditation and serious financial problems.

How about we stop obsessing about rankings and start caring about that?

jenna.johnson@washpost.com

Read more from Outlook, friend us on Facebook, and follow us on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2013 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 14, 2017 Thursday

Mount Union Ranked a Top College by U.S. News and World Report for 27th
Consecutive Year

LENGTH: 332  words



Columbus: Mount Union College has issued the following news release:
For the 27th consecutive year, the University of Mount Union has been cited as a
top college by U.S. News and World Report.


Mount Union was ranked 11th among Midwest Regional Colleges in the U.S. News and
World Report's 2018 Best Colleges rankings.  The Midwest Regional category
includes institutions from Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota,
Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota and Wisconsin.
"We are pleased to be recognized, yet again, as an outstanding Midwestern
institution," said Mount Union President Dick Merriman. "We believe our
commitment to limiting tuition increases while providing outstanding academic
programs has helped make us an outstanding value in our region."
In addition to its Best Colleges ranking, Mount Union was also recognized among
"A+ Schools for B Students" in the Regional Colleges category. U.S. News and
World Report released this ranking to identify colleges and universities where
"non-superstars have a shot at being accepted and thriving - where spirit and
hard work could make all the difference to the admissions office."
Along with being named in U.S. News and World Report's 2018 listing, the
University of Mount Union holds numerous national rankings. The University has
been included in Forbes' 2017 America's Best Colleges ranking, Washington
Monthly's "Best Bang for the Buck" listing and The Wall Street Journal/Times
Higher Education College Rankings. Mount Union has also been featured in the
Princeton Review's Guide to 361 Green Colleges for five consecutive years. Other
citations have been garnered by College Factual, Niche, Tuition Hero, Educate to
Career, STARS, Arbor Day Foundation and Sierra Club. For more information on
Mount Union's national rankings, visit mountunion.edu/mount-union-national-
rankings.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     May 20, 2004, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

College rankings get failing grade in measuring quality

BYLINE: Karen Symms Gallagher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 730 words

Americans' love affair with "Top 10" lists is well known. They're an engrained
part of our culture of competition. University rankings are no exception.

U.S. News & World Report's release last month of its annual "America's Best
Graduate Schools," which will be followed by its "America's Best Colleges"
edition, crowns the most outstanding academic programs and institutions. Then
there are the business-school rankings by The Wall Street Journal, BusinessWeek
and other publications. Even ignominious rankings of best party schools are
printed.


For selective universities competing for high-quality freshmen or top-tier
graduate students, much is on the line. A drop in ranking can translate into
fewer applicants for next year's freshmen class or a lower average starting
salary for graduates leaving with their MBAs. In other words, a great deal of
money is at stake.

Most college officials and faculty argue that no one number can measure the
quality of their institutions. Early on, U.S. News ignored much of the
criticism. Yet, as the publication's influence grew, U.S. News has tried to
placate college presidents by appointing advisory boards. Each attempt to be
more "scientifically objective" has increased the public's belief in the
rankings' reliability. However, any claim to measure the impact a college or
university has on its students is just not accurate.

Disconnect on ratings

When it comes to these rankings and the quality of a school's academic programs,
a clear disconnect exists. Three examples:

 * Studies have shown that schools ranking consistently in the top 50 get there
and stay there because they have the competitive advantage to recruit better
students and prominent faculty members. But if potential students use rankings
to determine the best place to get a good education, such as the quality of life
on a college campus or their satisfaction with post-graduation job placement,
they will be disappointed. These facets are not measured.

 * Rankings are often determined by a survey completed by college presidents or
graduate-school deans, who are asked to rank a list of peer institutions. As
with the Academy Awards, in which actresses nominate fellow actresses,
engineering deans are asked to rank other graduate programs of engineering.
Business and law-school deans do the same, and research-university presidents
are asked to measure other research universities. These surveys measure only a
university official's perceptions of a school's prestige rather than the
experiences of enrolled students. Thus, slick publications sent to presidents
and deans are often a better investment than, say, hiring more faculty members.

 * Much of the information used to measure overall academic quality can be
labeled simple "inputs" -- such as the number of classes with fewer than 20
students -- which can be inexpensively compiled. Conversely, "outputs" -- such
as students' experiences in the classroom or value-added learning -- are
expensive to evaluate and cannot be tallied to include all 2,300 four-year
institutions.

Why not survey students?

A more comprehensive measure of academic quality might be found in asking
graduates, not deans, about education programs, as BusinessWeek did last fall to
determine its 20 best executive-education programs. Academic quality then is
paired with a student's experience and thus is based clearly on a program's
performance.

Why do school rankings seem to vary from year to year?

There is a major difference between the rankings, say, of college football or
basketball teams and those measuring academics. Players graduate or are lured by
professional teams to depart school early. Good coaches sometimes leave. In
sports, you can point to an obvious change to explain the shift in performance.
Such is not the case for academics. Switches in rankings of colleges usually
occur because of the changes publications make in the weight of a category or
the addition of a new one.

Let's face it, rankings are a commercial enterprise, and annual issues of the
best colleges and graduate schools are best sellers.

But if the rankings of the top schools did not vary from year to year, why would
you buy those new editions?

***

Karen Symms Gallagher is dean of the University of Southern California's Rossier
School of Education.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              194 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Greeley Tribune (Colorado)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 21, 2007 Tuesday

Monfort school maintains ranking

BYLINE: Greeley Tribune, Colo.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 355 words


Aug. 21--The Monfort College of Business at the University of Northern Colorado
has maintained its standing among the top business schools in the country as
ranked by U.S. News and World Report.

The college's ranking at 126 comes from the magazine's 2008 online version of
"America's Best Colleges," said Tim Jares, interim dean.

"It is significant that a 1,200 student undergraduate-only business college is
ranked among the elite business schools in the U.S.. Placing among the top
schools is yet another validation of the unusual decision made by deans and
faculty more than 20 years ago to drop all graduate programs and concentrate on
excellence in undergraduate business education," Jares said in a press release.

The last five years have seen the Monfort College of Business rise in the U.S.
News and World Report ranking of undergraduate business programs. The college
has gone from being unranked in 2004 to the top 126 in 2008. Last year's ranking
was similar to this year's ranking.

The college becoming the first and only business school in the nation to receive
the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award in 2004 and consistent top 10
percent student performance on nationally-administered exit exams, have led to
its rise in visibility, Jares said.

"Our program's quality is also evidenced by student, employer, and parent
satisfaction, student performance, hiring of students by reputable employers,
and financial gifts to the college," he said.

According to U.S. News and World Report, the magazine arrived at the rankings by
surveying deans and senior faculty at undergraduate business programs accredited
by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business.

The rankings were released Aug. 17.

To see more of the Greeley Tribune, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.greeleytribune.com. Copyright (c) 2007, Greeley Tribune, Colo.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070821-GY-Monfort-school-maintains-ranking-0821

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GY


                         Copyright 2007 Greeley Tribune

                              195 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    Times-News (Burlington, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 17, 2010 Tuesday

Elon still second in college rankings

BYLINE: Mike Wilder, Times-News, Burlington, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 445 words


Aug. 17--Elon University kept its secondplace ranking among Southern regional
universities in U.S. News & World Report's annual college guide.

Schools are ranked on factors such as graduation and freshmen retention (the
number of students who continue at the school) rates, the assessment of leaders
at other schools, faculty resources, how selective they are in admitting
students, financial resources and alumni giving.

Elon's second-place standing on the list was behind Rollins College in Florida.
James Madison University in Virginia was third.

Appalachian State University in Boone ranked ninth on the list.

The rankings are part of the magazine's 2011 Best Colleges edition.

Elon'sfirstappearanceintheguide was in 1995, when it was ranked 39th in its
category.

Besides its overall ranking, the Alamance County school was recognized in
several categories:

"Schools that are focused on their undergrads": Elon is one of 86 colleges and
universities throughout the United States "where the faculty has an unusual
commitment to undergraduate teaching." That ranking is based on the opinions of
college presidents, provosts and admissions deans.

2011 up-and-comers: Elon is one of 68 colleges and universities in the United
States "that have recently made the most promising and innovative changes in the
areas of academics, faculty, student life, campus, or facilities" as determined
by a survey of college administrators. Elon ranked first among Southern regional
universities in that category.

"A strong focus on student success": Elon is listed in six of eight categories,
including study abroad, service learning, first-year experiences, internships,
learning communities and senior capstone, defined as an experience near the end
of college that allows students to make use of what they've learned. Stanford is
the only other university listed in six categories. Purdue and Michigan are
listed in five.

"Greatschools,greatprices": Elon is listed seventh among Southern universities
based on combining high academic quality with an affordable net cost of
attendance.

"A-plus schools for B students": Elon is listed among the top 17 Southern
universities "where nonsuperstars have a decent shot at being accepted and
thriving."

To see more of the Times-News, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.thetimesnews.com. Copyright (c) 2010, Times-News, Burlington, N.C.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail services@mctinfoservices.com, or
call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States, call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100817-BT-Elon-still-second-in-college-rankings-20100817

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                           Copyright 2010 Times-News

                              196 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Jamestown Sun (North Dakota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          September 13, 2017 Wednesday

BRIEF: UJ receives highest ranking in 'Best Colleges'

BYLINE: The Jamestown Sun, N.D.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 179 words


Sept. 13--The University of Jamestown has again received the highest ranking of
all North Dakota institutions in any category of U.S. News and World Report's
"Best Colleges 2018" edition, released Sept. 12. For the 11th consecutive year,
the university is ranked in the top tier of Best Regional Colleges.

"The University of Jamestown is happy to be recognized as an educational leader
in North Dakota," said UJ President Robert Badal. "The top North Dakota ranking
reflects our focus on student success."

U.S. News and World Report's "Best Colleges" is the most recognized and popular
of all college rankings. The report evaluates colleges and universities annually
by assessing criteria such as peer assessment, graduation rate, student/faculty
ratios, class size, alumni giving, and student testing scores. Categories are
Regional Colleges, Regional Universities, National Universities and National
Liberal Arts Colleges.

___ (c)2017 The Jamestown Sun (Jamestown, N.D.) Visit The Jamestown Sun
(Jamestown, N.D.) at www.jamestownsun.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170913-QJ-BRF-UJ-receives-highest-ranking-in-Best-Colleges
-0913-20170913

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QJ


                        Copyright 2017 The Jamestown Sun

                              197 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                             August 17, 2007 Friday

Academy ranks among top liberal arts colleges

BYLINE: EARL KELLY; Staff Writer

SECTION: ARUNDEL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 658  words


The latest college rankings place the Naval Academy among the top liberal arts
colleges in the country, but again prompted St. John's College to protest the
very notion of rating colleges.

According to U.S. News & World Report magazine's 2008 edition of "America's Best
Colleges," the Naval Academy, with a score of 80, ranked 20th among liberal arts
colleges in the United States, tied with Oberlin College in Ohio.

The U.S. Military Academy, which also scored 80, ranked 22nd. Williams College
in Massachusetts scored 100 and was listed as No. 1 among liberal arts colleges.

"We are pleased to receive this kind of feedback on the Naval Academy's
demanding academic program and that U.S. News and World Report has confirmed the
Naval Academy's reputation as an excellent engineering school," said USNA
Academic Dean William C. Miller.

"However, the U.S. Naval Academy is first and foremost a leadership school,
preparing young men and women for positions of responsibility in the Navy and
Marine Corps," he said.

The rankings were based on several factors, including peer assessment,
graduation and retention rates, faculty resources, student selectivity,
financial resources, alumni giving and graduation rate performance, Mr. Miller
said.

This year, for the first time the magazine ranked service academies - Army,
Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard and Merchant Marine

- along with traditional colleges.

While the Naval Academy and West Point ranked among the top liberal arts
colleges, the Air Force Academy ranked No. 1 among public baccalaureate colleges
in the West, while the Coast Guard and Merchant Marine academies were in the Top
10 public colleges in the North.

Traditionally, the magazine ranked service academies among bachelor degree-only
engineering colleges.

Last year, the Naval Academy tied with The Cooper Union for the Advancement of
Science and Art, and West Point for third place nationally among such
engineering schools, both in New York.

This year, the top national university was Princeton University, with Harvard
and Yale universities ranking 2nd and 3rd, respectively.

The Johns Hopkins University tied with Brown and Northwestern universities in
the 14th slot, and the University of Maryland, College Park, ranked 54th, one
notch ahead of Boston University.

St. John's College, both the Annapolis and Santa Fe, N.M., campuses, did not
receive rankings, but were included as "third tier" colleges.

St. John's offers an unusual curriculum dedicated entirely to the great writings
of Western civilization. Many works are taught in the original Greek and Latin.

"St. John's hasn't participated in one (of these surveys) in a decade now," the
college's president, Chris Nelson, said late yesterday. "I haven't looked at the
rankings in years, but they always put us in."

Mr. Nelson laughed about the hype surrounding U.S. News & World Report's
announcement yesterday - an embargoed announcement that gave media outlets
permission to announce today that the results will be available on newsstands on
Monday.

"It's like a Harry Potter book," he said.

Mr. Nelson and other members of a consortium of small liberal arts colleges,
called The Annapolis Group, have long opposed U.S. News & World Report's college
rankings.

"They aren't counting anything that goes on in the classroom, they aren't
counting anything that goes into one's learning," Mr. Nelson said.

In May, St. John's was one of 12 colleges to sign a letter to the presidents of
1,500 institutions, asking them to boycott U.S. News & World Report's system of
ranking colleges.

Since then, The Annapolis Group, a consortium of about 125 small colleges, took
a straw poll opposing the ranking system.

U.S. News & World Report defended its ranking system in a prepared statement
yesterday: "The U.S. News rankings system rests on two pillars: quantitative
measures that education experts agree on as reliable indicators of academic
quality and our nonpartisan view of what matters in education."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2007 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 19, 2017 Thursday

Baruch College Ranks Among Best Schools in the North in Latest U.S. News & World
Report Rankings

LENGTH: 444  words



 New York: City University of New York (CUNY) System has issued the following
news release:

 Baruch College placed #5 among top public schools and #20 overall, both for the
"Regional Universities in the North category," in the newly released U.S. News &
World Report rankings of the nation's best colleges and universities.


The annual survey assesses more than 1,800 colleges and universities throughout
the United States. Among those institutions, 1,388 receive rankings.
These 2018 rankings mark the second consecutive year that Baruch College
received its highest rankings to date in the regional category, maintaining its
12 point increase from the 2016 list.
13 Point Jump in National Ranking for "Best Undergraduate Business Programs"
The U.S. News & World Report also ranks Baruch College #64 among the nation's
"Best Undergraduate Business Programs," and #42 among the nation's public
schools.
The national ranking represents a 13 point jump from the #77 spot on the 2017
list for Baruch College's undergraduate business programs at the Zicklin School
of Business.
 At a Glance:
U.S. News & World Report also gave high rankings to Baruch College in several
additional categories, which are included in the below summary of the College's
rankings:
Among Regional Universities in the North, Baruch ranks:
    #1 "Most Selective School" among public schools; #2 among all institutions
     #1 "Freshmen in Top 25% of High School Class"
     #2 "Economic Diversity among the Top 25"
     #2 "Average First-Year Student Retention Rate" among public schools; #5
among all institutions
     #3 "Most International Students" among public schools; #7 among all
institutions
     #5 "Top Public Schools"
     #5 Campus Ethnic Diversity
     #20 among all institutions for "Best Regional Universities"
Among all colleges and universities nationally, Baruch ranks:
    #64 "Best Business Programs"
 Excellence in Urban Education
According to U.S. News & World Report, "...Baruch's vision is excellence in
urban public education. The student body reflects the strength and diversity of
New York City, a world-class metropolis, and the College embraces the city
through its curriculum, programs and student life."
Methodology:
U.S. News & World Report focuses its rankings methodology on "academic
excellence, with schools evaluated on hundreds of data points and up to 15
measures of academic quality. Overall, the rankings emphasize student outcomes -
such as graduation and freshman retention rates - which carry the most weight at
30 percent."
In case of any query aregarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         La Crosse Tribune (Wisconsin)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 14, 2014 Sunday

Local, regional schools fare well in annual college survey

BYLINE: Allison Geyer, La Crosse Tribune, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 608 words


Sept. 14--For the 14th consecutive year, UW-La Crosse is rated among of the best
public universities in the Midwest.

The U.S. World and News Report's 2015 America's Best Colleges list ranks UW-L
the top regional school in the UW System and the No. 4 public university in the
Midwest, tied with Eastern Illinois University. With the ranking expanded to
include private colleges, UW-L tied for 31st in the same category.

"We're delighted to once again be the top-ranked campus of our kind in the UW
System," UW-L Chancellor Joe Gow said. "It's beneficial to have this external
validation of the great work our faculty and staff do to ensure our students
receive a high quality education."

UW-Madison was not included in the rankings, as U.S. News and World Report
considers it a national institution. The UW System's flagship school ranked 13th
on the Top 30 Public National Universities list.

UW-L fell one spot from last year's No. 3 ranking, which Gow attributes
partially to the university's faculty compensation falling to
less-than-competitive rates in recent years. The problem is pervasive throughout
the entire UW System, with pay lagging 13 to 20 percent below its peers.

"We need to address salary issues to keep the university moving forward," Gow
said.

Several other UW schools made a strong showing in the Midwestern public
universities category of the annual Best Colleges list, with UW-Eau Claire
ranking 6th, UW-Whitewater ranking 12th, UW-Stevens point ranking 13th, UW-Stout
ranking 17th and UW-Oshkosh and UW-River Falls tied for 19th.

Local and regional schools also fared well in the regional ranking. In the
ranking expanded to include public and private universities, Winona State ranks
61st, Viterbo tied for 109th and Saint Mary's tied for 181st.

Viterbo has adopted a policy of not publicly commenting on college polls and
rankings, spokesman Pat Kerrigan said in an email.

"Many of these surveys are subjective and do not accurately reflect the true
value of the educational experience at many colleges and universities," he
wrote.

Barbara Oertel, associate vice president for enrollment services at Winona
State, said the rankings are a useful tool and an important indicator that help
hold universities accountable.

"It affirms that we're going in the right direction and that we're doing the
right thing by our students," she said. "We want to know how we're doing, and we
want other people to know how we're doing."

The U.S. News and World Report rankings are based on a number of quality
indicators, including peer assessment, graduation and retention rates, faculty
resources, student selectivity, financial resources and alumni giving.

Among local and regional schools evaluated, UW-L has the highest average
freshman retention rate, with 86 percent of students returning to campus for
fall semester after their first year. The university also boasts the highest
graduation rate, with 69 percent of students receiving a diploma within six
years, and the highest percentage of faculty who work full time, 93 percent.

UW-L is also by far the most selective of the nearby schools, and it attracts
greater numbers of high-achieving students, with 24 percent of freshmen coming
from the top 10 percent of their high school class and 69 percent in the top 25
percent of their high school class.

Winona State has the highest alumni giving rank in the region, and Saint. Mary's
has the highest alumni giving rate, with 13.2 percent of graduates donating to
their alma mater.

___ (c)2014 the La Crosse Tribune (La Crosse, Wis.) Visit the La Crosse Tribune
(La Crosse, Wis.) at www.lacrossetribune.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140914-LQ-Local-regional-schools-fare-well-in-annual-college
-survey-0914-20140914

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LQ


                        Copyright 2014 La Crosse Tribune

                              200 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The York Dispatch (Pennsylvania)

                           September 16, 2011 Friday

No more 'best value' ranking for York College

BYLINE: ANDREW SHAW The York Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 623 words


York College, which long has touted its regular mention as a "Best Value" in
U.S. News & World Report rankings, was not ranked among the top values for
colleges in the region in the past year.

But that's because the school got bumped into a larger category because of its
growing number of master's degree candidates. The national publication ranked
York College in the top 100 Regional Universities in the North section, which
includes much of the Northeast portion of the country.

The Regional Universities category pits York College against much larger
schools. For comparison of size, Villanova University was No. 1 in the category
and has an enrollment of 7,146 students and tuition of $41,260 per year; York
College came in at No. 94 and has an enrollment of 5,346 and tuition of $15,880
per year.

"Those are universities that have financial resources that are very imposing,"
said York College's Frank Mussano, dean of administrative services.

How it works: The college rankings are based on a variety of statistics such as
acceptance rate and graduation rate, while the "Best Value" is determined by
academic quality compared to cost.

In past years, York College was listed as a best value in the Regional College
category, but it did not get listed among the best values for Regional
Universities this year.

Mussano said some of the top-ranked institutions in that category heavily
discount tuition, which can improve their rankings, rather than start with a
lower price and stick to it as York does.

York College's tuition, plus

$8,920 for room and board, is offset by an average financial aid package of
about $15,000 for undergraduate students.

"We have very practical students, very practical parents," Mussano said of the
emphasis on value.

The college has updated campus buildings and added new programs added every
semester, but Mussano said tuition dollars aren't going to cover debt as they do
at some schools -- endowment and community donations help cover much of that.

Issues: Mussano said the new ranking in the magazine might cause a slight issue
if parents no longer see York College in its traditional place among the best
value schools and aren't aware of the category switch.

Or it might cause families to think the college has aims of becoming a huge
university, considering its growing master's program and new doctoral program in
nursing.

"We don't consider ourselves a large university," he said, adding there are no
plans to rename the school York University. "We are specifically not trying to
do that."

York College's graduate nursing program was also lauded, with its anesthesia
program among the top 50 in the country in the magazine's ranking.

Several top schools: York College was one of several area schools to make the
annual rankings. HACC and other community colleges, as well as Penn State York,
weren't considered.

All of the rankings are for the North section unless otherwise noted.

---Elizabethtown College was ranked as the second-best value among Regional
Colleges and fourth among Regional Colleges overall. Regional College was York
College's former category.

---Messiah College was ranked sixth-best value and fifth overall in the Regional
College.

---Millersville University was ranked 21st overall for public universities, tied
with Shippensburg University. Millersville was also ranked No. 82 overall among
Regional Universities.

---Franklin & Marshall University was ranked No. 42 for National Liberal Arts
Colleges.

---Gettysburg College was just above that, listed No. 37 for National Liberal
Arts Colleges.

---Penn State University was ranked No. 35 for National Universities.

The complete rankings are available at http://usnews.com/education.

-- Reach Andrew Shaw at 505-5431 or ashaw@yorkdispatch.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 York Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            October 8, 2009 Thursday

College rankings place UCD in top 100 for first time

BYLINE: SEÁN FLYNN

SECTION: IRELAND; Other Stories; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 587 words


THE WORLD ranking of Irish universities has improved dramatically in the past
year, according to a highly regarded international league table.

With UCD entering the top 100 for the first time, the Republic now has two
colleges in this elite group. Trinity has climbed six places to 43, while UCD is
up 19, to 89.

Trinity is also ranked as the 13th best university in Europe.

The Times Higher Education/QS World University Rankings, published today, has
other good news for Ireland: UCC is up 19 places, to 207.

NUI Galway is up no less than 125 places, to 243. DCU is ranked at 279, up from
302 last year. Dublin Institute of Technology is up marginally to 326.

Making its first appearance in the rankings, NUI Maynooth is ranked between 400
and 500. University of Limerick is also in the same ranking.

The rankings represent a boost for UCD president Dr Hugh Brady, whose
"pro-business" and modernisation agenda has had a huge influence across the
sector. UCD's world rankings have been transformed: four years ago it languished
in 221st place in the world.

The success of both TCD and UCD in securing places in the top 100 is also a
boost for the UCD/TCD Innovation Alliance, unveiled earlier this year. The new
rankings will also help both universities attract international academic staff
and students.

With more than 2,000 colleges surveyed, the QS World University Rankings are
regarded as the most reliable guide to university performance. Colleges are
ranked by academics and employers on the basis of data gathered on peer academic
review; employer review; international faculty ratio; international student
ratio; student faculty ratio; and citations per faculty.

Dr Brady said the ranking puts UCD in the top 5 per cent of universities
worldwide.

"While one could find fault with any university ranking system, the reality is
that rankings matter: they matter when top-quality international students and
staff are choosing a university, they matter increasingly to Irish students when
deciding whether to study in Ireland or abroad, and they are cited as one of the
top 10 reasons why multinational companies choose a particular region in which
to invest."

TCD provost Dr John Hegarty said: "Our stated ambition was to be at the front
rank of world universities and among the top 50 globally. We have achieved that
in a relatively short period of time and this year's ranking of 43rd place has
surpassed that original goal."

UCC president Dr Michael Murphy warned that the Irish university sector
continued to face a severe financial crisis. "In the face of continued cuts, the
danger is that the Irish university sector will be forced into a non-competitive
position, thereby affecting our ability to compete internationally at the
highest level and drive forward the Government's own agenda for a
knowledge-based economy."

Britain and the US continue to dominate the list of top 10 universities. Harvard
retains its ranking as the top university in the world, with Cambridge moving
ahead of Yale for the second spot.

World rankings

1:Harvard, US

2:University of Cambridge, UK

3:Yale University, US

4:UCL (University College London)

5:Oxford, UK

5:Imperial College London, UK

7:University of Chicago, US

8:Princeton University (US)

9:Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), US

10:California Institute of Technology (US)

43:Trinity College Dublin

89:University College Dublin

207:UCC

243:NUI Galway

279:DCU

326:Dublin Institute of Technology

400-500:NUI Maynooth and UL

Source: Times Higher Education - QS World University Rankings 2009

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2009 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            October 8, 2009 Thursday

College rankings place UCD in top 100 for first time

BYLINE: SEÁN FLYNN, Education Editor

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 587 words


THE WORLD ranking of Irish universities has improved dramatically in the past
year, according to a highly regarded international league table.

With UCD entering the top 100 for the first time, the Republic now has two
colleges in this elite group. Trinity has climbed six places to 43, while UCD is
up 19, to 89.

Trinity is also ranked as the 13th best university in Europe.

The Times Higher Education/QS World University Rankings, published today, has
other good news for Ireland: UCC is up 19 places, to 207.

NUI Galway is up no less than 125 places, to 243. DCU is ranked at 279, up from
302 last year. Dublin Institute of Technology is up marginally to 326.

Making its first appearance in the rankings, NUI Maynooth is ranked between 400
and 500. University of Limerick is also in the same ranking.

The rankings represent a boost for UCD president Dr Hugh Brady, whose
"pro-business" and modernisation agenda has had a huge influence across the
sector. UCD's world rankings have been transformed: four years ago it languished
in 221st place in the world.

The success of both TCD and UCD in securing places in the top 100 is also a
boost for the UCD/TCD Innovation Alliance, unveiled earlier this year. The new
rankings will also help both universities attract international academic staff
and students.

With more than 2,000 colleges surveyed, the QS World University Rankings are
regarded as the most reliable guide to university performance. Colleges are
ranked by academics and employers on the basis of data gathered on peer academic
review; employer review; international faculty ratio; international student
ratio; student faculty ratio; and citations per faculty.

Dr Brady said the ranking puts UCD in the top 5 per cent of universities
worldwide.

"While one could find fault with any university ranking system, the reality is
that rankings matter: they matter when top-quality international students and
staff are choosing a university, they matter increasingly to Irish students when
deciding whether to study in Ireland or abroad, and they are cited as one of the
top 10 reasons why multinational companies choose a particular region in which
to invest."

TCD provost Dr John Hegarty said: "Our stated ambition was to be at the front
rank of world universities and among the top 50 globally. We have achieved that
in a relatively short period of time and this year's ranking of 43rd place has
surpassed that original goal."

UCC president Dr Michael Murphy warned that the Irish university sector
continued to face a severe financial crisis. "In the face of continued cuts, the
danger is that the Irish university sector will be forced into a non-competitive
position, thereby affecting our ability to compete internationally at the
highest level and drive forward the Government's own agenda for a
knowledge-based economy."

Britain and the US continue to dominate the list of top 10 universities. Harvard
retains its ranking as the top university in the world, with Cambridge moving
ahead of Yale for the second spot.

World rankings

1:Harvard, US

2:University of Cambridge, UK

3:Yale University, US

4:UCL (University College London)

5:Oxford, UK

5:Imperial College London, UK

7:University of Chicago, US

8:Princeton University (US)

9:Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), US

10:California Institute of Technology (US)

43:Trinity College Dublin

89:University College Dublin

207:UCC

243:NUI Galway

279:DCU

326:Dublin Institute of Technology

400-500:NUI Maynooth and UL

Source: Times Higher Education - QS World University Rankings 2009

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2009 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             July 9, 2016 Saturday

Centre remains among nation&#226;&#128;&#153;s best in new Forbes
&#226;&#128;&#156;Top Colleges&#226;&#128;&#157; ranking

LENGTH: 455  words

DATELINE: New York



 Danville: Centre College has issued the following news release:







 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com
 In its 9th annual  "America's Top Colleges" ranking, Forbes has once again
included Centre College among the best of the 660 colleges and universities
nationwide it identifies as distinctive for emphasis on outputs over inputs.





 Ranked #5 in the South among liberal arts colleges, Centre enjoys good company
with peer institutions Davidson College, Washington & Lee University, Sewanee
and Rhodes College.



 On that same "Top 25 Southern Schools" list, Centre is ranked #18 overall when
compared with much different and larger institutions like state universities in
Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, Texas and Virginia; private universities Duke,
Emory, Rice, SMU and Vanderbilt; and engineering-focused schools Georgia Tech
and Virginia Tech.



 Believing that ROI, or return on investment, matters most, Forbes focuses its
methodology on what students are getting out of college, sensitive to the fact
that "college has become one of the biggest financial decisions students and
their families make."



 Five main categories are used to calculate the rankings: post-graduate success,
student debt, student satisfaction, graduation rates and academic success.



 The post-graduate success category includes earning data from PayScale.com ,
where Centre was recently ranked #1 in Kentucky, among all colleges and
universities, and #41 in the nation among liberal arts colleges.



 In a complementary ranking released along with the "Top Colleges" list, Centre
is #40 in the nation in the "Grateful Grads" ranking that looks at private
donations and gifts per student over a decade-long period. Among these "Top 200
Show-Me-the-Money Schools," only two Southern liberal arts
institutions--Davidson and Washington & Lee--are ranked higher, earning Centre a
ranking of #3 in the South.



 This matches the #3 in the South ranking received this past April in Forbes'
first-ever "Best Value Colleges" list, where Centre was also ranked #27 in the
nation among liberal arts colleges.



 As part of the "Top Colleges" ranking, Forbes also assigns each institution a
financial grade, for which Centre received an A.



 Unlike other rankings, Forbes does not use the Carnegie Classification of
Institutions of Higher Education that parse out institutions of differing sizes
or focus, or those dedicated strictly to an undergraduate, liberal arts degree
as opposed to institutions with graduate or professional degree programs. As
such, Centre comes in at #100 in the nation among all institutions of higher
education considered for the "America's Top Colleges" list.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 25, 2014 Thursday

Pennsylvania: Kiplinger's Magazine Ranks Juniata 79th in Best Value Poll

LENGTH: 598 words

DATELINE: Harrisburg


Juniata College, The State of Pennsylvania has issued the following News
release:

Juniata College rose two slots in the final major higher education poll by
placing 79th in Kiplinger's Personal Finance ranking for "Best Values in Private
Liberal Arts Colleges." The 2015 rankings mark the fourth time Juniata has been
included in the annual rankings by the renowned business publication.

The personal finance magazine poll ranks 100 liberal arts colleges and 100
private universities that "deliver a high quality education at an affordable
price." The colleges exemplify the attributes students and parents look for,
including small class sizes, good freshman retention rates and a high four-year
graduation rate.

"Don't assume in-state public schools are always the least expensive option. A
private school could be even more affordable."
Janet Bodnar, editor, Kiplinger's Personal Finance
The liberal arts college rankings will appear in the February 2015 issue of the
magazine, on sale Jan. 6.

Juniata, which was ranked 81st last year, is ranked just above Furman
University, in Birmingham, Ala., at 80th, and Luther College, in Decorah, Iowa,
at 81st. Ranked just above Juniata is College of St. Benedict, in St. Joseph,
Minn., at 78th, and Millsaps College, in Jackson, Miss., at 77th.

Juniata is one of 13 Pennsylvania colleges to be included on the liberal arts
college rankings. Swarthmore College, in Swarthmore, Pa., was rated first in the
poll. Other college rankings are: Haverford College, in Haverford, Pa., at
fourth; Bucknell University, in Lewisburg, Pa., at 31st; Bryn Mawr College, in
Bryn Mawr, Pa., at 37th; Lafayette College, in Easton, Pa., at 46th; Dickinson
College, in Carlisle, Pa., at 47th; Gettysburg College, in Gettysburg, Pa., at
49th; Franklin & Marshall College, in Lancaster, Pa., at 53rd; Muhlenburg
College, in Allentown, Pa., at 62nd; Juniata College at 79th; and Ursinus
College, in Collegeville, Pa., at 87th.

Kiplinger's Personal Finance editors rank the institutions by measuring academic
quality and affordability. The magazine lists the top 100 universities and
liberal arts colleges in separate tables, using the Carnegie classification
system, which organizes institutions based on the highest level and number of
degrees offered.

Some of the factors measured by the magazine include: admission rate; percentage
of students who return for sophomore year; student-faculty ratio; and four-year
graduation rate. Criteria for cost includes: sticker prices; financial aid; and
average student indebtedness at graduation.

"We salute this year's top schools," says Janet Bodnar, editor of Kiplinger's
Personal Finance magazine. "Balancing top-quality education with affordable cost
is a challenge in today's economy, which is why Kiplinger's ratings are such a
valuable resource."

Kiplinger's also for the first time collated a combined ranking of public and
private institutions. Juniata ranked 178th in the combined poll, out of the 300
public and private colleges and universities ranked.

The combined rankings are dominated by private institutions because, "the
average financial aid award is a little higher at private schools and so is the
four-year graduation rate," says Kaitlin Pitsker, a Kiplinger's reporter who
collated the data for the combined poll.

"Don't assume in-state public schools are always the least expensive option,"
wrote Bodnar in her explanation of the combined poll. "A private school could be
even more affordable."


In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             October 3, 2014 Friday

Ranking and Networking

LENGTH: 922  words

DATELINE: Long Beach


California State University, Long Beach has issued the following news release:

LinkedIn has officially joined the jam-packed college rankings party. And with
313 million users, the job networking site has a big data sample both for
creating the rankings and for marketing them.
The new ranking system tracks the success of college graduates in eight broad
career paths, adding weight for jobs deemed "desirable." It lists the top 25
institutions in each career category.

Last July LinkedIn released a "field of study explorer" that allowed people to
link college majors with jobs. The rankings are aimed more overtly at
prospective college students, both high school students and returning adults.
To create them, the company tracked employment patterns of its users to figure
out what the most in-demand careers are, as well which graduates get jobs in
those fields. The categories of jobs it used are accounting professionals,
designers, finance professionals, investment bankers, marketers, media
professionals, software developers, and software developers at startups.
"We define a desirable job to be a job at a desirable company for the relevant
profession," LinkedIn said in a written statement.
Defining a desirable employer comes first. The rankings assign points for both
attracting and retaining talent. For example, an investment bank looks better if
it lures LinkedIn users away from another bank.
Only "relevant" graduates are considered in the rankings, the company said. So
colleges are rated based solely on graduates who work within the eight tracked
career fields. And the rankings seek to reflect recent employment trends by
looking only at users who earned their undergraduate degrees within the previous
eight years.
When a user clicks on a ranked college, LinkedIn reveals more details, such as
where alumni work and live. And it features individual alumni profiles.
The top 25 lists include filters for the United States, Canada and the United
Kingdom.
Two experts on measuring career outcomes said LinkedIn's rankings are a welcome
addition.
"I am no fan of rankings, let alone ranking institutions, but as a way of
differentiating programs based on outcomes, I find this terribly interesting,"
Tod Massa, director of policy research and data warehousing at State Council of
Higher Education for Virginia, said in an email. "In many ways, this might be a
more valuable approach than just wages, in that it does appear to represent what
individuals feel about their jobs and education."
Mark Schneider agreed that the rankings are intriguing. Schneider, a vice
president at the American Institutes for Research and a visiting scholar at the
American Enterprise Institute, said LinkedIn could show a big audience the
various pathways to career success.
"It's going to have a lot of eyeballs," he said.
'Big Data'
Both Massa and Schneider noted that LinkedIn is ranking only a tiny swath of the
academy. Listing 25 institutions in each category is remaining in to rarefied
air, they said.
"It does seem to miss a few thousand colleges and universities," said Massa. He
said he would rather see LinkedIn move away from rankings to listings of the
best academic programs and career outcomes for all colleges.
The company said in the future it would consider creating college rankings for a
broader spectrum of career paths.
Given the relatively small lists of colleges, the usual suspects tend to
dominate.
For example, all eight Ivy League institutions landed in the top 12 spots for
investment bankers (but Georgetown University beat out the University of
Pennsylvania and Yale University for first place). Likewise, Carnegie Mellon
University and the California Institute of Technology were the top two
institutions for software developers.
There are some surprises in the rankings, however, with lesser-known
institutions placing well.
For example, Fairfield University and Bentley University were among the top 25
in accounting. And while it's certainly a big name, the University of Phoenix
might be a surprising choice for ranking 11th in marketing.
Each ranking list includes a link to another tool LinkedIn released on
Wednesday.
The University Finder is a search engine for colleges based on a student's
interest in a possible career. Users type in what they'd like to study, which
employer they might want to work for and where they might want to live. The site
then spits out "popular schools for this career goal."
A hypothetical student might say she wants to study game and interactive design,
with a preference for living in greater Chicago. The top three institutions for
that path are DePaul University, Columbia College Chicago and the Illinois
Institute of Art, according to LinkedIn.
That search can be refined further. For example, if the student wants to work
for WMS Gaming and High Voltage Software, two more institutions -- Full Sail
University and Sacred Heart University -- pop up on the top of the list. And all
those listings are based on actual users who work for specific employers.
LinkedIn also released a social networking application for prospective students
to chat with each other about colleges, and to talk with current students.
Huge samples and granular details make the new rankings interesting, Schneider
said, whether or not they really take off as a consumer guide to college.
"They're getting smart about how to tap into this big database," he said of
LinkedIn. "This is big data."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 4, 2011 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Love it or hate it, colleges learn to live with U.S. News guide

BYLINE: Daniel de Vise

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1298 words


Bob Morse is a wonk, a number-cruncher who works in a messy office at a
struggling publishing company in Georgetown.

He's also one of the most powerful wonks in the country, wielding the kind of
power that elicits enmity and causes angst.

Morse runs U.S. News & World Report's annual Best Collegesguide, the oldest and
best-known publication to rank America's premier colleges.

The annual release of the rankings, set for Sept. 13 this year, is a marquee
event in higher education. Some call it the academic equivalent of the Sports
Illustrated swimsuit issue.

Colleges broadcast U.S. News rankings on Web sites and in news releases, tout
them in recruiting pamphlets, alumni magazines and "Dear Colleague" letters, and
emblazon them on T-shirts and billboards. Institutions build strategic plans
around the rankings and reward presidents when a school ascends.

"U.S. News doesn't advertise the rankings," Morse said in a recent interview at
the publication's headquarters. "The schools advertise for us."

Morse, 63, has endured for two decades as chief arbiter of higher education's
elite.

No one can stake a credible claim to academic aristocracy without a berth on the
first page of a U.S. News list. He is to colleges what Robert Parker is to wine.

College presidents dismiss the rankings. They line up behind conference
microphones to denounce Morse and his methods.

Privately, college administrators fret about rankings and ponder how to move up.
Presidents and deans telephone U.S. News several times a week to ask "why they
rank the way they do," Morse said. He usually takes the calls himself.

At industry meetings, Morse answers his critics in a halting monotone. He speaks
with a mild stutter.

"His manner is disarming and, in its own way, very effective," said Ted Fiske, a
fellow traveler in the college-guide business, who rates colleges but does not
rank them. "It just sort of takes the air out of the room."

The rankings have changed the way colleges do business. Critics see their
influence  every time an institution presses alumni for nominal donations,
coaxes noncommittal students to apply or raises the SAT score required for
admission.

Twenty-eight years after the release of the first U.S. News lists, Morse and his
publication dominate the college-ranking business they spawned. Last year's
publication drew more than 10 million Internet hits on launch day.

In a conference room one recent afternoon, Morse heard reports from a group of
overworked editors and producers, many in their 20s and wearing comfortable
shoes.

"We have a lot to get through. We're two weeks away from launch," said Anita
Narayan,  deputy education editor. Conversation drifted from the "countdown
clock" on the U.S. News Web site to potential media coverage to a shift in
categories that will place the U.S. Air Force Academy among liberal arts schools
for the first time.

The rankings typically make up more than half of the Web traffic at U.S. News, a
onetime news magazine that retreated from weekly to biweekly to monthly and
finally ceased print publication altogether this year. Morse presides over a
staff of six.

Many of the nation's college presidents, deans and professors say the rankings
are  worthless. They contend that ranking colleges is as senseless as ranking
zoo animals: Every college is unique. So, too, are their applicants.

"The question is not, 'What's the best college?' " Fiske said. "The question is,
'What's the best college for me?' "

U.S. News declared Harvard the best university in the nation last year, awarding
it a perfect score of 100 based on a formula that considered such factors as
acceptance rate  (7 percent), graduation rate (98 percent) and
student-to-faculty ratio (7 to 1).

The ranking did not measure how much Harvard students learn, how much they read
and write, or how many go on to graduate school or high-paying jobs. Much of
that data, to be fair, is not publicly available. To Morse's critics, it is a
fatal flaw.

"This is the prime fallacy of U.S. News: They think they're measuring
excellence, but they don't have measures of excellence," said Paul Glastris,
editor of Washington Monthly, one of several publications that offer alternative
rankings. "They don't deliver the thing they say they deliver."

To its credit, U.S. News created a means for the public to compare institutions
on matters of admission and completion - and did it two decades ahead of a
surging national movement toward greater accountability in higher education.

U.S. News first ranked colleges in 1983. The editors were trying to break out of
third place among newsmagazines (after Time and Newsweek) with a campaign of
consumer-friendly "news you can use." The idea was to list the best colleges in
order of quality, the  way Consumer Reports ranked automobiles and dishwashers.

Morse is neither a journalist nor a stereotypical East Coast snob. He has an
economics degree from the University of Cincinnati, which his publication ranked
156th among national universities last year, with an overall score of 29. He has
an MBA from Michigan State, which was ranked 79th.

He joined U.S. News in 1976 as part of its economics unit, a team of
non-journalists who wrote studies to which journalists would append quotes. He
moved to the rankings team in 1987 and has overseen the annual project since
1989.

The first rankings judged colleges on a single factor, academic reputation, as
measured by presidents in a survey. Morse designed a more sophisticated survey
that is still in use, with some tweaks, today.

Graduation and freshmen retention rates count for the largest share of the
100-point ranking, 27.5 percent, with extra points for schools whose graduation
rates exceed statistical expectations based on socioeconomic mix and other
factors. Academic reputation counts for 22.5 percent, based on surveys completed
by presidents, provosts, admission deans and high school guidance counselors.
Faculty resources (including student-faculty ratio) count for 20 percent.
Selectivity (including admission rate) counts for 15 percent, financial
resources for 10 percent, and alumni giving for 5 percent.

The rankings have always mirrored the established order: Harvard, Princeton and
Yale top the list of national universities; Amherst and Williams generally head
the list of liberal arts schools.

Some former U.S. News employees say Morse and others have engineered the
rankings to guarantee that the same schools come out on top, allegations laid
out in a 2000 Washington Monthly article. Morse denies ever putting his thumb on
the scales.

College presidents complain that schools near the top of the list never change.
That's not entirely true.

Since 1991, Columbia has risen from 10th to fourth among national universities;
the University of Pennsylvania, another private institution, climbed from 13th
to fifth; and Northwestern from 23rd to 12th. The University of California at
Berkeley has dropped from 13th to 22nd and the University of Virginia from 18th
to 25th.

Critics say the ranking undervalues public universities because it measures
wealth and they are not wealthy. Since 1991, each of the five public
institutions ranked highest on the U.S. News list has slipped at least seven
places.

"Chancellors and presidents only quote rankings when their schools are doing
well, and so I never quote U.S. News at all, ever," said Robert J. Birgeneau,
Berkeley's chancellor.

Other publishing firms have followed U.S. News into the rankings business,
including big names such as Kiplinger and Forbes. None has seriously challenged
U.S. News, which has the advantage of being first and, critics say, of affirming
the status quo.

Asked whether he remembers when U.S. News had its first competitors, Morse
replied, "I'm not sure that we have competitors now."

devised@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      The Free Press (Mankato, Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday

Update: Gustavus, MSU move up U.S. News & World Report rankings

BYLINE: Jessica Bies, The Free Press, Mankato, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 583 words


Sept. 10--Both Gustavus Adolphus College and Minnesota State University moved up
in the 2015 U.S. News and World Report's Best College rankings, released online
early Tuesday.

Gustavus Adolphus College of St. Peter is ranked No. 64 among Best National
Liberal Arts Colleges. This is the highest Gustavus has appeared on the list in
recent history and represents a jump of 12 spots -- in the 2014 rankings, the
college was ranked No. 76.

The ranking is the highest the college has gotten in almost a decade.

"It's affirmation of our approach to education, the quality of our education and
really an affirmation of liberal arts education in the way that Gustavus does
it," Gustavus President Rebecca M. Bergman said.

Minnesota State University ranked 69th among four-year institutions in the
12-state Midwest region, tying with colleges such as University of Wisconsin,
Oshkosh and University of Wisconsin, River Falls. Last year it ranked 75th.

Dan Benson, director of media relations at MSU, said the university is pleased
with the results and that the rankings are commonly used by students and parents
looking at colleges.

U.S. News & World Report has been publishing college rankings since 1985 and is
widely considered to be the most respected resource for parents and prospective
students when it comes to such rankings. Its methodology is based on several key
measures of quality including graduation and retention rates, assessment of
excellence, faculty resources, student selectivity, financial resources,
graduation rate performance and alumni giving.

MSU improved in several of those areas this year, Benson said. Not only did its
first-year student's one-year retention rate increase from 70 percent to 74
percent, class sizes decreased.

The percentage of classes with fewer than 20 students went from 31.6 percent to
35.3 percent, while the percentage of classes with more than 50 students went
from 8.1 percent to 7.9 percent.

"More of our classes are smaller, less of our classes are larger," Benson said.

But the rankings are just one way for recent high school graduates to get an
idea of what MSU is like, Benson said. Though they can be an important part of a
prospective student's decision-making process, soon-to-be freshmen are
encouraged to consider multiple factors when picking a college.

"We also encourage prospective students to make individual contact with the
schools they're interested in and hopefully make personal visits to campus,"
Benson said.

Bergman agreed. Because Gustavus is a residential college, a visit to its campus
is incredibly important, she said. Not only can the students then get a good
feel for St. Peter, but they can experience the school's culture firsthand.

The rankings are important in that they draw attention to Gustavus and help the
college get noticed by students, but in the end they are only one piece of data.

It's one thing to know that the faculty to student ratio at Gustavus is 1 to 11;
it's another to see the tight knit relationship the college's tenure track
professors have with their pupils.

"I guess I would say that I would aspire to be in the top 50, but this is one of
those areas where there can be, in any given year, a lot of variability,"
Bergman said. "... We really don't focus on trying to improve the score. We
focus on trying to provide a good education to our young students."

___ (c)2014 The Free Press (Mankato, Minn.) Visit The Free Press (Mankato,
Minn.) at www.mankatofreepress.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140910-FP-Update-Gustavus-MSU-move-up-U-S-News-World-Report-rankings
-0910-20140910

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FP


                         Copyright 2014 The Free Press

                              208 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Pennsylvania: Kiplinger's Magazine Ranks Juniata 79th in Best Value Poll

LENGTH: 598  words

DATELINE: Harrisburg


Juniata College, The State of Pennsylvania has issued the following News
release:

Juniata College rose two slots in the final major higher education poll by
placing 79th in Kiplinger's Personal Finance ranking for "Best Values in Private
Liberal Arts Colleges." The 2015 rankings mark the fourth time Juniata has been
included in the annual rankings by the renowned business publication.

The personal finance magazine poll ranks 100 liberal arts colleges and 100
private universities that "deliver a high quality education at an affordable
price." The colleges exemplify the attributes students and parents look for,
including small class sizes, good freshman retention rates and a high four-year
graduation rate.

"Don't assume in-state public schools are always the least expensive option. A
private school could be even more affordable."
Janet Bodnar, editor, Kiplinger's Personal Finance
The liberal arts college rankings will appear in the February 2015 issue of the
magazine, on sale Jan. 6.

Juniata, which was ranked 81st last year, is ranked just above Furman
University, in Birmingham, Ala., at 80th, and Luther College, in Decorah, Iowa,
at 81st. Ranked just above Juniata is College of St. Benedict, in St. Joseph,
Minn., at 78th, and Millsaps College, in Jackson, Miss., at 77th.

Juniata is one of 13 Pennsylvania colleges to be included on the liberal arts
college rankings. Swarthmore College, in Swarthmore, Pa., was rated first in the
poll. Other college rankings are: Haverford College, in Haverford, Pa., at
fourth; Bucknell University, in Lewisburg, Pa., at 31st; Bryn Mawr College, in
Bryn Mawr, Pa., at 37th; Lafayette College, in Easton, Pa., at 46th; Dickinson
College, in Carlisle, Pa., at 47th; Gettysburg College, in Gettysburg, Pa., at
49th; Franklin & Marshall College, in Lancaster, Pa., at 53rd; Muhlenburg
College, in Allentown, Pa., at 62nd; Juniata College at 79th; and Ursinus
College, in Collegeville, Pa., at 87th.

Kiplinger's Personal Finance editors rank the institutions by measuring academic
quality and affordability. The magazine lists the top 100 universities and
liberal arts colleges in separate tables, using the Carnegie classification
system, which organizes institutions based on the highest level and number of
degrees offered.

Some of the factors measured by the magazine include: admission rate; percentage
of students who return for sophomore year; student-faculty ratio; and four-year
graduation rate. Criteria for cost includes: sticker prices; financial aid; and
average student indebtedness at graduation.

"We salute this year's top schools," says Janet Bodnar, editor of Kiplinger's
Personal Finance magazine. "Balancing top-quality education with affordable cost
is a challenge in today's economy, which is why Kiplinger's ratings are such a
valuable resource."

Kiplinger's also for the first time collated a combined ranking of public and
private institutions. Juniata ranked 178th in the combined poll, out of the 300
public and private colleges and universities ranked.

The combined rankings are dominated by private institutions because, "the
average financial aid award is a little higher at private schools and so is the
four-year graduation rate," says Kaitlin Pitsker, a Kiplinger's reporter who
collated the data for the combined poll.

"Don't assume in-state public schools are always the least expensive option,"
wrote Bodnar in her explanation of the combined poll. "A private school could be
even more affordable."


In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 30, 2014 Tuesday

Pennsylvania: Kiplinger's Magazine Ranks Juniata 79th in Best Value Poll

LENGTH: 598  words

DATELINE: Harrisburg


Juniata College, The State of Pennsylvania has issued the following News
release:

Juniata College rose two slots in the final major higher education poll by
placing 79th in Kiplinger's Personal Finance ranking for "Best Values in Private
Liberal Arts Colleges." The 2015 rankings mark the fourth time Juniata has been
included in the annual rankings by the renowned business publication.

The personal finance magazine poll ranks 100 liberal arts colleges and 100
private universities that "deliver a high quality education at an affordable
price." The colleges exemplify the attributes students and parents look for,
including small class sizes, good freshman retention rates and a high four-year
graduation rate.

"Don't assume in-state public schools are always the least expensive option. A
private school could be even more affordable."
Janet Bodnar, editor, Kiplinger's Personal Finance
The liberal arts college rankings will appear in the February 2015 issue of the
magazine, on sale Jan. 6.

Juniata, which was ranked 81st last year, is ranked just above Furman
University, in Birmingham, Ala., at 80th, and Luther College, in Decorah, Iowa,
at 81st. Ranked just above Juniata is College of St. Benedict, in St. Joseph,
Minn., at 78th, and Millsaps College, in Jackson, Miss., at 77th.

Juniata is one of 13 Pennsylvania colleges to be included on the liberal arts
college rankings. Swarthmore College, in Swarthmore, Pa., was rated first in the
poll. Other college rankings are: Haverford College, in Haverford, Pa., at
fourth; Bucknell University, in Lewisburg, Pa., at 31st; Bryn Mawr College, in
Bryn Mawr, Pa., at 37th; Lafayette College, in Easton, Pa., at 46th; Dickinson
College, in Carlisle, Pa., at 47th; Gettysburg College, in Gettysburg, Pa., at
49th; Franklin & Marshall College, in Lancaster, Pa., at 53rd; Muhlenburg
College, in Allentown, Pa., at 62nd; Juniata College at 79th; and Ursinus
College, in Collegeville, Pa., at 87th.

Kiplinger's Personal Finance editors rank the institutions by measuring academic
quality and affordability. The magazine lists the top 100 universities and
liberal arts colleges in separate tables, using the Carnegie classification
system, which organizes institutions based on the highest level and number of
degrees offered.

Some of the factors measured by the magazine include: admission rate; percentage
of students who return for sophomore year; student-faculty ratio; and four-year
graduation rate. Criteria for cost includes: sticker prices; financial aid; and
average student indebtedness at graduation.

"We salute this year's top schools," says Janet Bodnar, editor of Kiplinger's
Personal Finance magazine. "Balancing top-quality education with affordable cost
is a challenge in today's economy, which is why Kiplinger's ratings are such a
valuable resource."

Kiplinger's also for the first time collated a combined ranking of public and
private institutions. Juniata ranked 178th in the combined poll, out of the 300
public and private colleges and universities ranked.

The combined rankings are dominated by private institutions because, "the
average financial aid award is a little higher at private schools and so is the
four-year graduation rate," says Kaitlin Pitsker, a Kiplinger's reporter who
collated the data for the combined poll.

"Don't assume in-state public schools are always the least expensive option,"
wrote Bodnar in her explanation of the combined poll. "A private school could be
even more affordable."


In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 27, 2014 Saturday

Pennsylvania: Kiplinger's Magazine Ranks Juniata 79th in Best Value Poll

LENGTH: 598  words

DATELINE: Harrisburg


Juniata College, The State of Pennsylvania has issued the following News
release:

Juniata College rose two slots in the final major higher education poll by
placing 79th in Kiplinger's Personal Finance ranking for "Best Values in Private
Liberal Arts Colleges." The 2015 rankings mark the fourth time Juniata has been
included in the annual rankings by the renowned business publication.

The personal finance magazine poll ranks 100 liberal arts colleges and 100
private universities that "deliver a high quality education at an affordable
price." The colleges exemplify the attributes students and parents look for,
including small class sizes, good freshman retention rates and a high four-year
graduation rate.

"Don't assume in-state public schools are always the least expensive option. A
private school could be even more affordable."
Janet Bodnar, editor, Kiplinger's Personal Finance
The liberal arts college rankings will appear in the February 2015 issue of the
magazine, on sale Jan. 6.

Juniata, which was ranked 81st last year, is ranked just above Furman
University, in Birmingham, Ala., at 80th, and Luther College, in Decorah, Iowa,
at 81st. Ranked just above Juniata is College of St. Benedict, in St. Joseph,
Minn., at 78th, and Millsaps College, in Jackson, Miss., at 77th.

Juniata is one of 13 Pennsylvania colleges to be included on the liberal arts
college rankings. Swarthmore College, in Swarthmore, Pa., was rated first in the
poll. Other college rankings are: Haverford College, in Haverford, Pa., at
fourth; Bucknell University, in Lewisburg, Pa., at 31st; Bryn Mawr College, in
Bryn Mawr, Pa., at 37th; Lafayette College, in Easton, Pa., at 46th; Dickinson
College, in Carlisle, Pa., at 47th; Gettysburg College, in Gettysburg, Pa., at
49th; Franklin & Marshall College, in Lancaster, Pa., at 53rd; Muhlenburg
College, in Allentown, Pa., at 62nd; Juniata College at 79th; and Ursinus
College, in Collegeville, Pa., at 87th.

Kiplinger's Personal Finance editors rank the institutions by measuring academic
quality and affordability. The magazine lists the top 100 universities and
liberal arts colleges in separate tables, using the Carnegie classification
system, which organizes institutions based on the highest level and number of
degrees offered.

Some of the factors measured by the magazine include: admission rate; percentage
of students who return for sophomore year; student-faculty ratio; and four-year
graduation rate. Criteria for cost includes: sticker prices; financial aid; and
average student indebtedness at graduation.

"We salute this year's top schools," says Janet Bodnar, editor of Kiplinger's
Personal Finance magazine. "Balancing top-quality education with affordable cost
is a challenge in today's economy, which is why Kiplinger's ratings are such a
valuable resource."

Kiplinger's also for the first time collated a combined ranking of public and
private institutions. Juniata ranked 178th in the combined poll, out of the 300
public and private colleges and universities ranked.

The combined rankings are dominated by private institutions because, "the
average financial aid award is a little higher at private schools and so is the
four-year graduation rate," says Kaitlin Pitsker, a Kiplinger's reporter who
collated the data for the combined poll.

"Don't assume in-state public schools are always the least expensive option,"
wrote Bodnar in her explanation of the combined poll. "A private school could be
even more affordable."


In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          December 24, 2014 Wednesday

Pennsylvania: Kiplinger's Magazine Ranks Juniata 79th in Best Value Poll

LENGTH: 598  words

DATELINE: Harrisburg


Juniata College, The State of Pennsylvania has issued the following News
release:

Juniata College rose two slots in the final major higher education poll by
placing 79th in Kiplinger's Personal Finance ranking for "Best Values in Private
Liberal Arts Colleges." The 2015 rankings mark the fourth time Juniata has been
included in the annual rankings by the renowned business publication.

The personal finance magazine poll ranks 100 liberal arts colleges and 100
private universities that "deliver a high quality education at an affordable
price." The colleges exemplify the attributes students and parents look for,
including small class sizes, good freshman retention rates and a high four-year
graduation rate.

"Don't assume in-state public schools are always the least expensive option. A
private school could be even more affordable."
Janet Bodnar, editor, Kiplinger's Personal Finance
The liberal arts college rankings will appear in the February 2015 issue of the
magazine, on sale Jan. 6.

Juniata, which was ranked 81st last year, is ranked just above Furman
University, in Birmingham, Ala., at 80th, and Luther College, in Decorah, Iowa,
at 81st. Ranked just above Juniata is College of St. Benedict, in St. Joseph,
Minn., at 78th, and Millsaps College, in Jackson, Miss., at 77th.

Juniata is one of 13 Pennsylvania colleges to be included on the liberal arts
college rankings. Swarthmore College, in Swarthmore, Pa., was rated first in the
poll. Other college rankings are: Haverford College, in Haverford, Pa., at
fourth; Bucknell University, in Lewisburg, Pa., at 31st; Bryn Mawr College, in
Bryn Mawr, Pa., at 37th; Lafayette College, in Easton, Pa., at 46th; Dickinson
College, in Carlisle, Pa., at 47th; Gettysburg College, in Gettysburg, Pa., at
49th; Franklin & Marshall College, in Lancaster, Pa., at 53rd; Muhlenburg
College, in Allentown, Pa., at 62nd; Juniata College at 79th; and Ursinus
College, in Collegeville, Pa., at 87th.

Kiplinger's Personal Finance editors rank the institutions by measuring academic
quality and affordability. The magazine lists the top 100 universities and
liberal arts colleges in separate tables, using the Carnegie classification
system, which organizes institutions based on the highest level and number of
degrees offered.

Some of the factors measured by the magazine include: admission rate; percentage
of students who return for sophomore year; student-faculty ratio; and four-year
graduation rate. Criteria for cost includes: sticker prices; financial aid; and
average student indebtedness at graduation.

"We salute this year's top schools," says Janet Bodnar, editor of Kiplinger's
Personal Finance magazine. "Balancing top-quality education with affordable cost
is a challenge in today's economy, which is why Kiplinger's ratings are such a
valuable resource."

Kiplinger's also for the first time collated a combined ranking of public and
private institutions. Juniata ranked 178th in the combined poll, out of the 300
public and private colleges and universities ranked.

The combined rankings are dominated by private institutions because, "the
average financial aid award is a little higher at private schools and so is the
four-year graduation rate," says Kaitlin Pitsker, a Kiplinger's reporter who
collated the data for the combined poll.

"Don't assume in-state public schools are always the least expensive option,"
wrote Bodnar in her explanation of the combined poll. "A private school could be
even more affordable."


In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                 The Times Leader (Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           September 12, 2017 Tuesday

Area colleges and universities nab spots on popular national ranking lists

BYLINE: Mark Guydish, The Times Leader, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 451 words


Sept. 12--All area four-year institutions of higher education found a home
somewhere in the annual U.S. News and World Report college rankings released
Tuesday, though the University of Scranton may have earned local bragging
rights.

College rankings border on the ubiquitous these days, but the U.S. News ratings
remain among the most popular, likely because they were among the earliest in
what became a rapidly growing trend of releasing such lists.

Wading through the rankings can be daunting. The website boasts "nearly 50
different types of numerical rankings and lists to help students narrow their
college search."

The big list is "National Universities" that offer a full range of undergraduate
and graduate degrees while doing extensive research. The top schools on that
list are names that nearly everyone knows: Princeton first and Harvard second.
Yale came in fourth behind the University of Chicago, preventing an Ivy League
trifecta.

For local schools, the "Regional Universities North" was the list most likely to
appear on. Among 196 institutions, the University of Scranton hit sixth,
Misericordia University landed at 41st, Marywood University at 56th, King's
College at 62nd, Wilkes University at 78th, and Bloomsburg University at 102nd.

U.S. News deemed 50 institutions as "Best Colleges for Veterans," with
Misericordia getting highest local honors at 23rd. Marywood was 34th and Wilkes
was 42nd.

The University of Scranton also grabbed top local ranking on the "Best Value
Schools" list, which included 84 institutions. "The U" came in at 18th, with
Misericordia at 24th, Marywood at 31st, King's at 35th and Wilkes at 43rd.

The University of Scranton and Wilkes University both made it onto a list of 200
school with the best engineering programs, no doctorate. Scranton was 134th,
Wilkes was 169th.

Local schools routinely boast a bit about these and other rankings, but also
point out weaknesses in the methodology used by U.S. News. In a media release
touting it's steady climb in the regional rankings over the years, Misericordia
renewed past criticism of one aspect of the ranking system: It can reward larger
schools simply for being better known.

"For smaller regional institutions like Misericordia University, name
recognition plays a negative factor in the rankings," the release noted. "Of the
overall score, 22.5 percent is from peer reviews -- surveys of other college
presidents, academic deans and admissions counselors. Many are located far
outside the region and might not know Misericordia as well as they should."

___ (c)2017 The Times Leader (Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) Visit The Times Leader
(Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) at www.timesleader.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170912-WB-Area-colleges
-and-universities-nab-spots-on-popular-national-ranking-lists-0912-20170912

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WB


                        Copyright 2017 The Times Leader

                              213 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                             August 30, 2013 Friday

Tahanto changes its student ranking system

BYLINE: Ken Cleveland

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 758 words

DATELINE: BOYLSTON


BOYLSTON - Students won't be formally ranked quite as they have in the past
after the Berlin Boylston Regional School Committee voted last week to change
the ranking process.

The new system will include a weighted GPA that factors in the level of course,
an unweighted GPA and a histogram that shows relative standing in their class.

The student ranking is particularly problematic at Tahanto Regional Middle/High
School because of the small class size.

A student ranked number six, for example, is actually outside the top 10 percent
of the class because there are less than 60 students in a graduating class.

That detail has led to some students missing out on college admission
opportunities or scholarships, or at least contributing to complications as
colleges determine who will get into some of the more competitive schools.

Tahanto Principal Diane Tucceri said the competition for the top spots can be
extreme.

Some of the information will still be available to colleges in the form of a
histogram, which will show what percentile a student is in, but not their actual
rank.

Tucceri noted the difference between some of the top spots is "miniscule."

In the past, some students, she said, have chosen courses based on the impact on
rankings rather than course content.

Berlin member Tom Fleming suggested eliminating ranking entirely by not
including the histogram as well.

"We need to be educating parents about the rationale behind these changes,"
Superintendent of Schools Nadine Ekstrom said.

Tucceri said many parents are not aware of the pressure associated with ranking
until they get into the college selection process, but students are asking about
ranking in freshmen year.

Chairman Ruth Blandin suggested making the rankings discussion part of the
college admission night the school holds.

Although Fleming suggested the histogram still provides the data, Ekstrom said
the school must provide the information if a college requests it.

Boylston member Lorie Martiska suggested educating parents before voting on the
ranking issue.

Ekstrom said the idea was to do it before the start of the school year since
college admissions start as early as September. The topic was originally
discussed for possible vote in May.

"This year is the same dilemma," Blandin said. "I've been there and I'm going to
be doing it again," she said in regard to her children and the college admission
process.

Fleming said the change doesn't go far enough since it still provides ranking.
He noted students could opt out of ranking, but Tucceri said students would
still want to know their rank, especially as others get theirs.

Choice transportation

The concerns of School Choice students, who will not get bus service to Berlin
and Boylston schools, were noted, but the cost of adding buses last year led to
the decision not to provide the transportation.

Most school districts no longer offer that service to choice students, but
Tucceri has been working to coordinate carpooling among choice students, and she
told the School Committee that, once school starts, many of the students will
form their own informal network for carpooling.

In past years, students from outside the districts could be picked up from spots
within the communities. But, there are few or no extra seats on the buses, so
adding pickup would cost money. And there are too few seats even to take
Boylston member Brad Wyatt's suggestion of a fee for School Choice students who
want to ride the bus.

In other business:

The School Committee voted to support the proposed intermunicpal agreement that
would affect a teacher who would work in both Berlin and Boylston school
districts. The administration is trying the mechanism, which allows sharing
between the separate districts, and was approved by boards of selectmen from
both towns. Shared staff is complicated by differing teacher contacts, for
example, and the fact that the schools are, technically, separate districts.

The Regional School Committee is planning to meet twice each month on a regular
basis. The elementary school boards will meet prior to the region, with Berlin
and Boylston alternating. The elementary boards will also have dedicated
meetings three times a year, under the new meeting plan.

Ekstrom reviewed draft goals for the coming years, including developing and
implementing a literacy proficiency program; increasing communication among
students, community, faculty, School Committee and parents regarding quality of
education; and increasing technology capacity throughout the schools, including
developing a technology plan.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BOYLSTON - Students won't be formally ranked quite as they have in the
past after the Berlin Boylston Regional School Committee voted last week to
change the ranking process. The new system will include a weighted GPA that
factors in the level of course, an unweighted GPA and a histogram that shows
relative standing in their class. The student ranking is particularly
problematic at Tahanto Regional Middle/High School because of the small class
size.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                           September 1, 2015 Tuesday
                             NC Wilmington Edition

Local community colleges rank low in study

BYLINE: NC Buckland Tim; StarNews Staff

SECTION: 1,A; GateHouse Media GM9; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 413 words

ABSTRACT

Cape Fear Community College was ranked 205th among 670 community colleges in the
country by Wallet Hub, an online financial decision-guiding website. 3 p.m./10
inches

FULL TEXT

SOUTHEASTERN, N.C.   Area community colleges didn t fare well in a ranking of
community colleges released this week by an online financial website.

Cape Fear Community College in Wilmington ranked 205th and Southeastern
Community College in Whiteville ranked 599th among 670 community colleges
included in the ranking by WalletHub, which provides analysis to guide financial
decisions for everything from education and cars to banks and credit cards.

Cape Fear was 15th and Southeastern was last among the 31 community colleges in
North Carolina included in the rankings. North Carolina has 59 community
colleges.

David Hardin, Cape Fear s spokesman, didn t address the ranking when asked for a
response. His statement said the college s  faculty and staff, along with the
community as a whole, deserve the credit for making CFCC a model for
institutions to follow around the country.

Brunswick Community College was not included in the rankings. The survey left
out a significant number of schools, including 28 in North Carolina. It ranked
670 institutions nationally, though there are more than 1,100 nationwide,
according to the American Association of Community Colleges.

The site said it could not include all of the schools because of  data
limitations.

According to its website, WalletHub bills itself as  a one-stop destination for
all the tools and information consumers and small business owners need to make
better financial decisions and save money.

The site used 17 metrics to compile its rankings, including tuition costs,
student-faculty ratio, graduation rates and return on educational investment.

The top-ranked school was North Florida Community College in Madison, Fla. The
highest-ranking school in North Carolina was 7th-ranked Southwestern Community
College in Sylva. Taking the bottom spot in the survey was Terra State Community
College in Fremont, Ohio.

As a whole, North Carolina ranked 11th nationally, with Mississippi getting the
top spot.

To see the WalletHub study, go to wallethub.com/edu/best-worst-community-
colleges/15076.

Contact Tim Buckland at 910-343-2217 or Tim.Buckland@StarNewsOnline.com



Aerial photo of Cape Fear Community College s downtown Wilmington campus.
WalletHub ranked the school 205th in a look at the country s community colleges.
STARNEWS FILE PHOTO

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                          September 13, 2017 Wednesday

UMPI receives three top rankings from U.S. News and World Report

LENGTH: 390 words


PRESQUE ISLE, Maine -- Officials at the University of Maine at Presque Isle are
pleased to announce that the institution earned three top rankings on U.S. News
and World Report's 2018 Best Colleges list. In this year's annual rankings, UMPI
was named among the 30 Best Regional Colleges in the north, the 15 Top Public
Schools in the north, and the Top Three Regional Colleges in the north for
graduates with least debt.


"We are always honored to be recognized on U.S. News and World Report's Best
Colleges List and are very pleased to receive three rankings that showcase the
hard work our faculty and staff do every day to provide a high quality and low
cost education for our students," UMPI President Ray Rice said. "We are
especially delighted to have been named the third best Regional College in the
north for graduates with least debt -- last year, we were ranked seventh and I
think this move up is a wonderful tribute to the efforts underway here to ensure
that our students get an affordable education, great financial aid packages, and
good advice on ways to stay debt-free."


In its Best Regional Colleges in the North ranking, UMPI tied for the #29th
slot, earning first tier status. The ranking defines regional colleges as
schools that focus on undergraduate education but grant fewer than half their
degrees in liberal arts disciplines. The north region includes Maine, New
Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland.


UMPI was listed as #13 in the Top Public Schools ranking list for Regional
Colleges in the North. The ranking defines public colleges and universities as
those that are typically operated under the supervision of state governments and
funded, in part, by tax dollars and subsidies from the state. Such universities
often offer free or discounted tuition to students considered residents of the
state.


In its third ranking, the University was short-listed among Regional Colleges in
the North for graduates with the least debt. U.S. News compiled a list of
schools whose Class of 2016 graduated with the lightest debt load. The data
included loans taken out by students from their colleges, from private financial
institutions, and from federal, state, and local governments. UMPI came in at
#3, its highest showing on this list to date.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Bangor Daily News

                              216 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                           September 11, 2011 Sunday

When ranking serves public interest

BYLINE: James Campbell

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 920 words


RANKING season is upon us yet again. The ups and downs of university rankings
continue to fixate the public and many policy makers alike.

For the most part, I am sure readers are aware of the arguments for, against and
ambiguous in regard to ranking, its validity, methodology and consequences.

I have written on several occasions in this column on the issue. What then are
some of the problems involved?

A report by the European Universities Association (EUA) points to cases of
statistical manipulation to raise ranking tables.

According to the report, there have been cases in some universities where,
rather than improving actual performance which is nominally the aim of ranking,
data have been manipulated.

The report outlines specific cases of manipulation which are referenced so that
scholars and the public alike can follow up on them and study aspects of this
matter for themselves. See Andrejs Rauhvargers Global University Rankings and
their Impact, EUA Report on Rankings, 2011, pages 66-67. According to the
report, changes have included:

merging universities just to get onto league tables;

number of applications to university;

standardised test scores of applicants;

number of academic staff;

student/staff ratio (it has been demonstrated that using different definitions
of staff and students, the ratio could be anything between 6:1 and 39:1);

faculty salary;

reputation survey by students (telling them to lie); and

even bibliometric indicators may be flawed due to the manipulation of data.

See Andrejs Rauhvargers Global University Rankings and their Impact, EUA Report
on Rankings, 2011, page 15.

The report is not one to be dismissed lightly and provides sobering reading on
the strengths and weaknesses of the current ranking tables.

Given the obvious problems which many scholars have pointed to in regard to
ranking, is there any good news when it comes to its impact?

I would like to draw readers' attention to the national ranking table of
American colleges and universities in Washington Monthly.

The magazine's ranking is an interesting intervention into our current debate.
Its table is based on three basic indicators: social mobility, research and
service.

According to the editors of the magazine: "One-third of each college's score on
our ranking is based on social mobility: how committed are they to enrolling
low-income students and helping them earn degrees? Our second category looks at
research production and success at sending undergraduates on to PhDs. Finally,
we give great weight to service. It's not enough to help students look out for
themselves. The best colleges encourage students to give something back." See
Editors, Introduction: A Different Kind of College Ranking, Washington Monthly
(www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/septemberoctober_2011/features/introduction_
a_different_kind031630.php)

According to the magazine editors, their ranking tables aim to "create new terms
of prestige that will make colleges want to focus their resources and interests
on serving the public interest".

The editors go on to point out in reference to US ranking that "everyone knows
that colleges change their policies to climb the US News ladder by rejecting
more student applications, hounding alumni for donations and spending lavish
sums on attention-getting buildings and star faculty hires".

"Imagine if they applied similar ingenuity to the task of improving community
service, preparing undergraduates for careers in the sciences and helping
low-income students earn degrees. Colleges that have no chance of climbing the
US News status ladder would receive long overdue recognition, while institutions
that have selfishly hoarded their resources would face new pressure to give
back". See Editors, Introduction: A Different Kind of College Ranking,
Washington Monthly
(www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/septemberoctober_2011/features/introduction_
a_different_kind031630.php?page>2)

There is significant and eye-opening research on ranking and its flaws and how
to make them serve the public interest.

The EUA report provides significant and well-researched analysis of ranking.
Although I would refrain from arguing the ranking is "shallow and useless" as
their more caustic critics assert, the report provides important information to
those of us who do not accept many of the current ranking tables on face value.
See Martin Banks, University Rankings Branded Shallow and Useless, The
Parliament.Com, 20 June
(www.theparliament.com/latest-news/article/newsarticle/university-rankings
-branded-shallow-and-useless/)

Finally, the idea put forward by the magazine seems something worth reflecting
on.

It attempts to steer ranking more forcefully towards addressing the issues of
public service and social justice, provides another way of understanding the
issue of ranking and what role ranking could play in the higher education
sector.

As always engaging with this issue requires research, reflection and serious
policy development. The key aim in this column has not been to utterly reject
ranking per se.

Rather I intend to draw my readers' attention to material which can open up the
public debate on ranking and provide a broader perspective.

Insofar as readers follow the references provided and hopefully delve even
deeper into this matter, I think I have done my task.

The writer is a Lecturer in Education in Australia and author of Universiti
Sains Malaysia (USM), Sustainability and the Struggle for A Vital Centre in
Education, Penerbit USM 2011. Email him at jamesca@deakin.edu.au

( END )

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Janesville Gazette (Wisconsin)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          September 9, 2015 Wednesday

Beloit College, UW-Whitewater recognized in national rankings

BYLINE: Nick Crow, The Janesville Gazette, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 341 words


Sept. 09--BELOIT -- Beloit College once again has made it into U.S. News and
World Report's best colleges rankings, which were released Wednesday.

The college tied for 61st in the publication's list of the top 240 liberal arts
colleges nationwide.

UW-Whitewater also made the rankings, tying for 50th among best Midwestern
universities.

Beloit College also was cited for:

--Undergraduate teaching: Out of 34 national liberal arts colleges recognized
for a strong commitment to teaching, Beloit College ranked 12th on that list.

--A-Plus Schools for B Students: The college was included on a nonranked list of
liberal arts colleges where "B" students could succeed. The category recognizes
colleges "where spirit and hard work could make all the difference to the
admissions office."

--Innovation: Beloit College tied for sixth on a list of 12 liberal arts
colleges that are leading the way in the digital age.

--Best colleges for veterans: The college was ranked 46th on a list of 56
liberal arts colleges for "support and attention to veterans, particularly of
Afghanistan and Iraq." Beloit College participates in the Post 9/11 G.I. Bill
and the Yellow Ribbon Program, which make additional funds available to students
who are veterans.

"Beloit's commitment to excellence in teaching and its willingness to innovate
are interrelated," Provost Ann Davies said in a written statement. "Our faculty
constantly challenge themselves to question and change what they do to deepen
student learning and development.

"Our Liberal Arts in Practice curriculum invites that kind of experimentation.
Whether working on sustainability projects here or in other countries, curating
museum exhibits, acting as a consultant for a local nonprofit or the government
of Belize, our students, and Beloit's mission that they lead lives of purpose
and consequence, are at the center of what our faculty do."

___ (c)2015 The Janesville Gazette (Janesville, Wis.) Visit The Janesville
Gazette (Janesville, Wis.) at www.gazetteextra.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150909-JG-Beloit-College-UW-Whitewater-recognized-in-national-rankings
-0909-20150909

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JG


                     Copyright 2015 The Janesville Gazette

                              218 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 15, 2017 Friday

U.S. News & World Report ranks SUNY New Paltz among Northeast's best
universities

LENGTH: 703  words



New York: State University of New York at New Paltz has issued the following
news release
SUNY New Paltz continued its run of strong performance in college rankings,
appearing at No. 7 on the U.S. News & World Report's list of the Top Public
Regional Universities in the North region, and No. 28 among all universities in
the region, for 2018.


The College appears on multiple lists in the 2018 U.S. News & World Report's
college rankings, including Best Colleges for Veterans, Best Undergraduate
Engineering Programs among schools that do not offer doctorates, Best Value
Schools in the North region, and A+ Schools for B Students.
"We're pleased to again earn recognition from the U.S. News & World Report,
which evaluates colleges on metrics like graduation and retention rates and the
academic excellence of incoming students" said Vice President for Enrollment
Management L. David Eaton. "This third party validation underscores that our
academic standards remain as high as ever, even as we welcome to campus one of
the largest incoming classes in the College's history."
The Best Colleges for Veterans list is a unique distinction reserved for schools
that go the extra mile to make higher education attainable for veterans, active
service members and their dependents.
Veteran, military and dependent enrollment at New Paltz has increased from 76
students in 2014 to more than 350 for the fall 2017 semester.
"This is a testament to all the great work being done by faculty, staff and
students across campus to come together and create a culture of support and
success for our military student population, from application to graduation,"
said Veteran & Military Services Coordinator Jason Gilliland.
New Paltz's first-ever appearance on the Best Undergraduate Engineering Programs
list is evidence of the rising reputation of the College's Division of
Engineering Programs. These rankings are based on the judgment of deans and
senior faculty at peer institutions, and only ABET-accredited engineering
programs are eligible for inclusion.
U.S. News develops its Best Value Schools rankings by weighing academic quality
against net cost of attendance, and creates its A+ Schools for B Students list
by searching out schools that perform highly in overall rankings while accepting
a significant number of students who were not at the very top of their high
school classes.
"Each of SUNY's 64 colleges and universities help our students find their
purpose and their passion," said SUNY Chancellor Kristina M. Johnson. "Whether
it's in research, education, outreach or engagement, our colleges and
universities strive to achieve excellence in everything they do. We are thrilled
that so many of our SUNY campuses have again received favorable rankings by U.S.
News & World Report. While we appreciate that rankings are one indication of
quality, it does help demonstrate that SUNY is one of the best national
education systems. Congratulations to each of the SUNY campuses recognized by
the 2018 U.S. News and World Report rankings."
The U.S. News rankings guidebook is among the most widely used resources for
prospective students weighing options in higher education, enabling easy
comparison of colleges and universities on indicators of excellence including
quality of the incoming class, acceptance rate, SAT/ACT scores, retention rates,
graduation rates and student/faculty ratios.
For a full run-down of U.S. News & World Report's evaluation of SUNY New Patz,
see the College's rankings profile. For more information on methodology and to
see the full rankings, visit the U.S. News & World Report.
Rankings
 SUNY New Paltz is nationally ranked among the nation's top public colleges by a
variety of highly regarded publications. Most recently, Forbes ranked New Paltz
in the top 100 public colleges in the nation; Kiplinger's recognized New Paltz
on its list of "Best College Values"; Princeton Review named New Paltz among its
best colleges and universities in the northeast; and the Business Journals
placed New Paltz among America's top 75 public colleges and universities.

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 2, 2013 Wednesday

Mercer County universities rank among the best in the nation, U.S. News & World
Report finds

LENGTH: 641  words

DATELINE: Carson City


The College of New Jersey has issued the following news release:

Princeton University stands alone atop this year's U.S. News & World Report
ranking of the nation's best colleges.

Princeton beat out Harvard after the two Ivy League schools tied for the No. 1
spot on the list last year. Yale, Columbia and Stanford universities rounded out
the top five schools, according to the list released yesterday.

"We are pleased with the recognition the University consistently receives for
its high quality of education, distinctive academic offerings, unique student
experience and our groundbreaking financial aid program," Princeton University
said in a press release. "However, we do feel that no single ranking is capable
of providing a complete picture of an institution, nor can it be used to solely
determine whether it is the right match for a potential student."

The College of New Jersey in Ewing was again ranked the No. 1 public institution
among regional universities in the northern region, and the fifth overall in the
category, up six spots from last year, the college said.

TCNJ is the only public institution ranked among the top 10 in the region in the
2014 edition of the magazine's rankings.

"These rankings validate who we are as an institution and as a dynamic community
of people who learn together," TCNJ president R. Barbara Gitenstein said in a
news release. "Our exceptional students and our world-class faculty consistently
set standards and continue to foster innovation."

TCNJ has ranked as the top public school in the northern region since 1993, the
college said.

Rider University in Lawrence was ranked 18th in the region, its highest rank to
date among northern regional schools and eight spots up from last year's ranking
, the university said.

U.S. News and World Report's regional universities category ranks schools within
north, south, midwest and west regions. The ranking is regional, not national,
because universities tend to attract most of their students from surrounding
states, Rider said.

Rutgers University's New Brunswick campus ranked No. 69 on the national list,
tying with Texas A&M University. Other state campuses on the list of top
national universities included: Stevens Institute of Technology (82nd); Seton
Hall University (128th); Rutgers-Newark (142nd) and New Jersey Institute of
Technology (150th).

The U.S. News rankings, which are released annually, were closely watched this
year by some in the higher education community because the magazine adjusted its
methodology to place less importance on high school class rank.

The magazine's statisticians said that where applicants ranked in their high
school classes is less of a factor in college admissions, so the data is being
given less weight in the U.S. News formula that determines the nation's top
colleges. The magazine also gave more weight to each college's retention and
graduation rates.

But the changes resulted in only a minor reshuffling among the top universities.

College officials have long decried the rankings, saying using statistics to
rank colleges from best to worst is unhelpful to students and says little about
the quality of education at each school. Critics also say the metrics can be
easily manipulated by colleges trying to rise on the list.

Despite the protests, many colleges cite their rankings in their marketing
material and issue press releases touting their spots on the list.

Other colleges and universities on the regional list included Rutgers-Camden
(24th); Monmouth (30th); Ramapo (33rd) and Montclair State (54th).

At Richard Stockton College, a public college in Galloway Township, Atlantic
County, campus officials were celebrating ranking 60th among regional
universities in the north after landing near the bottom of U.S. News' rankings a
decade ago.

For more information please visit: http://tcnj.pages.tcnj.edu.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 3, 2013 Thursday

Bloomfield College ranked in U.S. News & World Report's 2014 Best Colleges

LENGTH: 409  words

DATELINE: BLOOMFIELD


BLOOMFIELD COLLEGE has issued the following news release:

For the third time in 2013, one of the most diverse liberal arts institutions in
the country has been recognized by a national organization in its annual
rankings.

U.S. News & World Report has named Bloomfield College as the ninth most diverse
National Liberal Arts College in the United States, in results released by the
organization Tuesday, Sept. 10. The school was also ranked as one of the top 240
National Liberal Arts Colleges in the country in the organization's annual "Best
Colleges" rankings.

Bloomfield is one of two New Jersey liberal arts colleges to be placed in the
rankings, joining Drew University as representatives of the Garden State. The
school was one of only 11 second tier schools to exceed the rankings' predicted
graduation rate for the institution.

The recognition comes on the heels of the institution being named as one of
"America's Top Colleges" by Forbes Magazine in July, 2013, and one of 12 New
Jersey institutions giving students the highest return on investment by
Affordable Colleges Online during the same month.

Diversity rankings were calculated to identify institutions where a student
would most likely encounter classmates of a different ethnic group from their
own. U.S. News calculated the proportion of the institution's minority students
(international students excluded) in relation to the overall student body,
giving each school a score on an index ranging from zero to 1.0. Among National
Liberal Arts Colleges, Bloomfield's score of 0.63 placed the institution ninth
in the nationwide rankings.

The ranking system used to evaluate National Liberal Arts Colleges uses
quantitative measures that have been deemed reliable indicators of academic
quality by education experts, such as graduation rates, peer assessment scores
and student selectivity.

"It is an honor to once again be recognized as one of the most diverse Colleges
in the country by U.S. News & World Report," Bloomfield vice president of
enrollment management Adam Castro said of the institution's rankings. "Our
student body continues to be a great representation of the multicultural and
global movements of the 21st century. The exposure our students get to different
cultures, ways of life and philosophies on a daily basis will not only prepare
them to become better professionals, but impactful citizens of the world."

For more information please visit: http://www.bloomfield.edu.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                             August 23, 2013 Friday

Tahanto changing rankings

BYLINE: Ken Cleveland

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 818 words

DATELINE: BOYLSTON


BOYLSTON - Students won't be formally ranked quite as they have in the past
after the Berlin Boylston Regional School Committee voted to change the ranking
process.

The new system will include a weighted GPA that factors in the level of course,
an unweighted GPA and a histogram that shows relative standing in their class.

The student ranking is particularly problematic at Tahanto Regional Middle/High
School because of the small class size.

A student ranked number six, for example, is actually outside the top 10 percent
of the class because there are less than 60 students in a graduating class.

That detail has led to some students missing out on college admission
opportunities or scholarships, or at least contributing to complications as
colleges determine who will get into some of the more competitive schools.

Tahanto Principal Diane Tucceri said the competition for the top spots can be
extreme.

Some of the information will still be available to colleges in the form of a
histogram, which will show what percentile a student is in, but not their actual
rank.

Tucceri noted the difference between some of the top spots is "miniscule."

In the past, some students, she said, have chosen courses based on the impact on
rankings rather than course content.

Berlin member Tom Fleming suggested eliminating ranking entirely by not
including the histogram as well.

"We need to be educating parents about the rationale behind these changes,"
Superintendent of Schools Nadine Ekstrom said.

Tucceri said many parents are not aware of the pressure associated with ranking
until they get into the college selection process, but students are asking about
ranking in freshmen year.

Chairman Ruth Blandin suggested making the rankings discussion part of the
college admission night the school holds.

Although Fleming suggested the histogram still provides the data, Ekstrom said
the school must provide the information if a college requests it.

Boylston member Lorie Martiska suggested educating parents before voting on the
ranking issue.

Ekstrom said the idea was to do it before the start of the school year since
college admissions start as early as September. The topic was originally
discussed for possible vote in May.

"This year is the same dilemma," Blandin said. "I've been there and I'm going to
be doing it again," she said in regard to her children and the college admission
process.

Fleming said the change doesn't go far enough since it still provides ranking.
He noted students could opt out of ranking, but Tucceri said students would
still want to know their rank, especially as others get theirs.

Drop-off pattern

All students being driven to school will also notice a change in the drop-off
pattern. It was reversed, Tucceri said, after a suggestion by a student.

The new route will help keep traffic from backing onto Route 70, with a
dedicated drop-off lane in the main parking lot.

Lines were being painted this week to make clear where the drop-off lane is.

Choice transportation

The concerns of School Choice students, who will not get bus service to Berlin
and Boylston schools, were noted, but the cost of adding buses last year led to
the decision not to provide the transportation.

Most school districts no longer offer that service to choice students, but
Tucceri has been working to coordinate carpooling among choice students, and she
told the School Committee that, once school starts, many of the students will
form their own informal network for carpooling.

In past years, students from outside the districts could be picked up from spots
within the communities. But, there are few or no extra seats on the buses, so
adding pickup would cost money. And there are too few seats even to take
Boylston member Brad Wyatt's suggestion of a fee for School Choice students who
want to ride the bus.

In other business

The School Committee voted to support the proposed intermunicpal agreement that
would affect a teacher who would work in both Berlin and Boylston school
districts. The administration is trying the mechanism, which allows sharing
between the separate districts, but will also require approval from boards of
selectmen from both towns. Shared staff is complicated by differing teacher
contacts, for example, and the fact that they are technically separate
districts.

The Regional School Committee is planning to meet twice each month on a regular
basis. The elementary school boards will meet prior to the region, with Berlin
and Boylston alternating. The elementary boards will also have dedicated
meetings three times a year, under the new meeting plan.

Ekstrom reviewed draft goals for the coming years, including developing and
implementing a literacy proficiency program; increasing communication among
students, community, faculty school committee and parents regarding quality of
education; and increasing technology capacity throughout the schools, including
developing a technology plan.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BOYLSTON - Students won't be formally ranked quite as they have in the
past after the Berlin Boylston Regional School Committee voted to change the
ranking process. The new system will include a weighted GPA that factors in the
level of course, an unweighted GPA and a histogram that shows relative standing
in their class.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           September 13, 2013 Friday

US News and World Report ranks Maine schools among top colleges

BYLINE: Jen Lynds BDN Staff

LENGTH: 642 words


PRESQUE ISLE, Maine -- Several schools across Maine are celebrating after
receiving top rankings on U.S. News & World Report's 2014 Best Colleges list.


This year's installment offers data on nearly 1,800 colleges and universities,
including tuition, acceptance rates, class sizes, graduation rates, and average
debt of graduates, according to the publication. Eligible schools are ranked on
up to 16 different factors, each weighted for importance.


Bowdoin College was ranked fourth on the list of National Liberal Arts Colleges,
which includes schools that emphasize undergraduate education and award at least
half of their degrees in the liberal arts fields of study. The Brunswick college
was singled out for its small class sizes and high student retention and
satisfaction rates. Bates College in Lewiston and Colby College in Waterville
both were ranked No. 22, and College of the Atlantic in Bar Harbor was ranked at
No. 93.


The University of Maine at Presque Isle was named among the 50 Best Regional
Colleges in the North, the 15 Top Public Schools in the North and the Top 5
Regional Colleges in the North for graduates with the least debt.


Linda Schott, president of UMPI, said Thursday that when she took over at the
helm last July, she decided that she would resume filling out the survey that
the publication requires in order to be ranked.


"I looked at the ranking as a way to see what we could work on," she said. "I
didn't see it as a criticism. I saw it as a way for us to be ranked fairly in
certain areas and then take that and see if we could improve on it."


Maine Maritime Academy in Castine was listed at No. 7 on the list of the Best
Regional Colleges in the North. The ranking defines regional colleges as schools
that focus on undergraduate education but grant fewer than half their degrees in
liberal arts disciplines. The University of Maine at Fort Kent was listed at No.
39, while UMPI and Unity College both were listed at No. 41.


Officials at UMFK said that they were pleased to receive the news.


"Our small campus has excellent teaching, actively engaged students, excels at
student success, and is part of a dynamic community," said Wilson G. Hess, UMFK
president. "It is deeply rewarding to have that affirmed by an organization as
distinguished as U.S. News & World Report."


UMPI was listed at No. 13 in the top public schools ranking list for Regional
Colleges in the North. The ranking defines public colleges and universities as
those that typically are operated under the supervision of state governments and
funded in part by tax dollars and subsidies from the state. Such universities
often offer free or discounted tuition to students considered residents of the
state.


In its third ranking, the university was short-listed among Regional Colleges in
the North for graduates with the least debt.


Schott said that UMPI always has prided itself on its small class sizes and
reasonable tuition, which she felt was reflected in the rankings. She felt that
the rankings were a major source of recognition coming on the heels of a report
released in May that university officials believe listed UMPI unfairly among
five colleges with the lowest return on investment.


The University of Maine System's flagship campus in Orono was ranked No. 167
among institutions in the National University category. Schools in this category
offer a full range of undergraduate majors, plus master's and doctoral programs.


U.S. News & World Report has published its Best Colleges rankings since 1983.
According to its website, the rankings provide an excellent starting point for
families searching for the best academic value for their money and allow them to
compare at a glance the relative quality of institutions based on such widely
accepted indicators of excellence as freshman retention and graduation rates and
the strength of the faculty.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Bangor Daily News

                              223 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             July 21, 2011 Thursday

Make public rankings of pvt engg colleges: High court

SECTION: CHENNAI

LENGTH: 378 words


CHENNAI: The Madras high court has directed different branches of the Anna
University of Technology (AUT) to make public the academic rankings of all
affiliated self-financing engineering colleges in their region. The AUT has
branches in Chennai , Coimbatore ,Trichy andTirunelveli .

Justice N Paul Vasanthakumar passed the order on a petition filed by N
Ramprasanth . The petitioner said he was a first-generation learner who
completed his secondary education in May 2011 and wanted to join an engineering
course . He was called for counselling on July 17 but the date was postponed .
His grievance was that the rankings of self-financing colleges had not been
disclosed till date . Due to this, candidates were unable to find out which
college had a good track record in academics and so, could not choose where to
enroll depending on the ranking and availability of seats .

While counsel for the university submitted that there was no statutory
obligation to announcethe academic rankings of colleges , the advocate appearing
for the petitioner said that though the exact rankings in termsof allthe
activities ,including infrastructure , hostel, transport facilities , couldn't
be assessed , the universities would definitely have the academic performance of
each college and so, could disclose their academic rankings on their website.
Terming the demand reasonable , Justice Paul Vasanthakumar said the university
was bound to disclose the academic ranking of affiliated colleges to promote
students' interests , particularly when therewere morethan 500 engineering
colleges in the state . Since the universities conducted examinations and would
have all the records relating to academic performance ,thejudgesaidthatifthese
records were not disclosed, the students would not know which colleges continued
to maintain excellence .

The petitioner wasdirected to make a representation before the controller of
examinations and registrar of the respective universities within two days . The
appropriate authorities were directed to publish the academic rankings of
affiliated colleges in their region , inform the same to the petitioner and make
it public within a week of receiving a copy of the representation from the
petitioner .

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                           September 10, 2013 Tuesday

New college rankings are out. Are they part of the problem?;
The annual US News & World Report college rankings were released Tuesday, and
critics charge they're contributing to a national college affordability problem
that has seen student debt soar.

BYLINE: Amanda Paulson Staff writer

SECTION: USA

LENGTH: 1061 words


The latest college rankings from US News & World Report came out Tuesday, ending
any speculation about whether Harvard, Princeton, or Yale will emerge on top
this year. (It's Princeton; last year was a tie between Princeton and Harvard.)

But, while jockeying for the top spot can be a friendly battle among elite
institutions, whose positions in the top tier are largely assured and rarely
shift more than a place or two, critics charge that the rankings - along with
not delivering much useful information - are contributing to the college
affordability problem.

This year, the rankings come out against the backdrop of a national discussion
on soaring student debt and skyrocketing tuition, and a proposal from President
Obama to create a new national college ranking system - one that would emphasize
things like graduation rates and sticker price.

"We're going to start rating colleges not just by which college is the most
selective, not just by which college is the most expensive, not just by which
college has the nicest facilities - you can get all of that on the existing
rating systems. What we want to do is rate them on who's offering the best value
so students and taxpayers get a bigger bang for their buck," Obama said in a
speech last month at the University of Buffalo.

Not so the US News rankings, in which sticker price doesn't really play a
factor, and there's little effort to capture value or measure real outputs.

"They're not asking the right questions. They're not asking questions about
value and real value. They're focused much more on inputs like wealth and
prestige and who they exclude," says Amy Laitinen, deputy director for higher
education at the New America Foundation.

Most students, she notes, aren't going to Harvard, Yale, or Princeton; 80
percent go to nonselective institutions.

"What they should be asking is: Am I going to graduate? How much debt will I
graduate with, and how much money will I make to help me pay off my debt?"

There are a few tweaks to this year's rankings, including a deemphasis on the
class rank of admitted students (which many high schools are doing away with),
and on student selectivity overall, and more emphasis on graduation rates (not
just the overall rate, but the difference between a school's predicted
graduation rate, based on the student body makeup, and actual graduation rate).

The shifts reflect a broader decision to reduce the weight of "input factors,"
such as how strong a school's freshman class is, and increase the weight of
output measures.

But ultimately, a school's standing still has a lot to do with selectivity,
student SAT and ACT scores, and nebulous factors like academic reputation -
computed based on a survey completed by university and college administration
officials.

In a well-known New Yorker essay, What College Rankings Really Tell Us, Malcolm
Gladwell criticized the circular logic of basing so much on subjective
reputation - especially of such a huge pool of institutions, few of which are
likely to be known well by the survey respondents.

"When US News asks a university president to perform the impossible task of
assessing the relative merits of dozens of institutions he knows nothing about,
he relies on the only source of detailed information at his disposal that
assesses the relative merits of dozens of institutions he knows nothing about:
US News," wrote Mr. Gladwell. "The US News ratings are a self-fulfilling
prophecy."

But beyond merely telling readers little that's really useful, the rankings, Ms.
Laitinen and others argue, actively hurt college affordability in significant
ways.

The rankings have become important to most schools in terms of their prestige
and ability to attract students. As a result, the schools often spend money in
unnecessary and inefficient ways in an effort to improve facilities and grounds
and improve their reputation. The rankings reward this kind of spending, while
doing nothing to encourage schools to charge less, serve more low-income
students, or improve cost-efficiency.

Laitinen also talks about the "edifice complex."

"There are incentives for schools to spend money on four-star dining halls and
rock climbing walls and big buildings," she says. "Colleges generally aren't
rewarded in the prestige game for how many low-income students they graduated,
but they are for how many buildings went up."

The rankings also give colleges incentives to essentially "buy" more
academically prepared students to increase their average SAT scores - whether
through "merit aid" programs or spending on facilities that will attract such
students - rather than to focus on decreasing students' debt load or giving
need-based aid.

A big hurdle, notes Laitinen and others, is that some of the most important
outcome-based data - particularly earnings of college graduates - isn't
available to US News or colleges or anyone trying to create rankings. The
reason: a 2008 law, pushed by the higher education lobby, that prevents the
federal government from collecting this data.

Even the graduation-rate data is incomplete, since it only tracks full-time
students at the school they start at - ignoring, for instance, the many students
who start at a community college and then transfer to a four-year institution.

US News did release a list of "Best Value" schools, based on a school's academic
quality (measured in the US News rankings) along with the average cost after
financial aid is factored in. The top schools aren't much different - Harvard
ranks No. 1 - though Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah, manages to squeeze
into the Top 10 (It's No. 62 in the overall rankings).

A few schools rose significantly in the rankings this year, including Penn State
and Boston University in the national university list. And several others,
including Howard University and Rutgers, the State University of New
Jersey-Newark, fell quite a few spots (the two are both ranked 142nd).

Families interested in ratings that take a different tack can look at the
Washington Monthly rankings, released several weeks ago, which emphasize low
tuition, willingness to enroll low-income students, graduation rates, and
community service.

Or they can wait to see whether the ranking system proposed by Obama - which
would not only try to measure value, but would tie federal student-aid dollars
to how well colleges deliver value - ever becomes a reality.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2013 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                           Ledger (Lakeland, Florida)

                           September 7, 2001, Friday

REPORT: FSC NINTH AMONG SOUTHERN REGION COLLEGES

BYLINE: JENNA DEOPERE The Ledger

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 795 words


LAKELAND -- Florida Southern College ranks ninth among Southern region
comprehensive colleges in U.S. News and World Report's annual college rankings.

The rankings, first presented in 1983, were released on the magazine's Web site
Thursday. They'll also be available in the magazine and a more comprehensive
book, "America's Best Colleges," starting Monday.

FSC President Thomas Reuschling said he agrees with the company in which the
small college was ranked.

"I'm happy to be clustered with Berry College (in Georgia)," he said of the
school that placed first in the category. "Seven of those are pretty good peer
schools for us."

FSC also was ranked fifth for best value among Southern comprehensive colleges.

Reuschling said he was happy with the ranking, but cautious.

"You never complain when you're reasonably recognized," he said. "But I'm always
realistic that they can shift in a year and this is not a perfect measure of how
good you are or what your weaknesses are."

The magazine's list of the nation's best colleges and universities was led by
Princeton for the second straight year. No Florida schools made the Top 25 list.

The University of Florida, Florida State University and the University of Miami
all were listed in the second tier of top schools, meaning they were ranked
between 51 and 100. The magazine lists second-, third- and fourth-tier schools
in alphabetical order rather than by ranking.

The University of South Florida was listed in the third tier. In the fourth tier
was Florida Atlantic University, International University and the University of
Central Florida.

University of Florida and Florida State were listed among the top public
universities, with Florida ranked 19th and FSU, 48th. Both schools dropped one
place from last year. The No. 1 public university was the University of
California-Berkeley.

The list appears amid growing criticism that it misses the point of college --
learning.

Even the No. 1 school said rankings aren't everything.

"While we appreciate the recognition in these rankings, we don't put much stock
into this particular ranking, or to others like it," Princeton University
spokeswoman Marilyn Marks said. "There are issues of methodology and
subjectivity, and we don't believe any ranking can capture whether any
institution is appropriate for any individual student."

U.S. News counters that the editors' year-round effort to get the rankings right
includes regular consultation with top college officials nationwide. It says
complaints from schools are few.

More important, consumers understand the list is only a starting point, said
Peter Cary, U.S. News special projects editor.

"The hundreds of thousands of people who buy our guidebook are not buying it to
find out who's No. 1," Cary said, "They're really buying these guidebooks to
mine the data, to find out what college is right for them."

Harvard and Yale tied for second, behind Princeton, in the magazine's premier
category of "national universities-doctoral." The 249 schools in that group
offer an array of undergraduate majors, master's and doctoral programs.

Sorting schools into three other categories, the magazine also ranks liberal
arts colleges; universities that chiefly offer bachelor's and master's degrees;
and schools that focus on undergraduates but have high enrollments in
professional programs like nursing and teaching. The last two categories are
broken down by region.

Most of the information in the rankings comes from a survey the schools
complete.

Schools are placed into categories, then graded by a numeric formula figuring in
such factors as selectivity, class size, faculty salaries, graduation rates and
alumni giving.

The biggest part of the equation -- 25 percent -- is academic reputation. For
that, campus executives are asked to rate rival institutions.

U.S. News has looked for ways to quantify how much students actually learn,
their satisfaction and results, but has yet to find a workable method, Cary
said. Still, he said, "most of the people we talk to believe most of what we're
doing is on the right track."

One exception is Bard College President Leon Botstein, who regularly assails the
rankings.

"They don't really analyze the quality of teaching. They don't analyze the
curriculum," said Botstein, whose Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., school ranks 38th
among liberal arts colleges. "It's a club ranking. This is the equivalent of the
restaurants you want to be seen in."

Jenna Deopere can be reached at jenna.deopere@theledger.com or at 863-802-7588.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this article.

RANKINGS

For more information on the college rankings, see U.S. News & World Report's Web
site at www.usnews.com.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

             Copyright 2001 Lakeland Ledger Publishing Corporation

                              226 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Chronicle of Philanthropy

                              May 25, 2007 Friday

Playing the Rankings Game

BYLINE: ELIZABETH F. FARRELL and MARTIN VAN DER WERF

SECTION: SPECIAL REPORT; Pg. 11 Vol. 53 No. 38

LENGTH: 3988 words


Baylor University's vision for the future is ambitious. In the institution's
10-year strategic plan, Baylor 2012, officials outline elaborate goals to raise
student retention and graduation rates, attract top-notch faculty, and improve
facilities on the campus. Baylor is clear about how it will calibrate its
success: On the very first page of the 42-page document, Baylor states that its
overarching goal is to enter the top tier of institutions, as determined by U.S.
News & World Report's college rankings.

Baylor is now ranked 81st among national universities, a marked improvement from
1991, when it was in the unranked third tier of institutions, but still a far
cry from the top-50 status it hopes to reach by 2012. In addition to mapping out
a strategic plan with many factors that closely mimic those measured by U.S.
News, the university has hired a strategic-planning director to make sure every
department remains on track to achieve that goal, and has already spent
$200-million on related improvements.

Like college officials elsewhere, those at Baylor have figured out how to
improve their status in the rankings, and have spent plenty of time and money to
meet that goal. In some ways, U.S. News has become the tail that wags the dog.
The magazine's annual college guide does not merely compile data on what
colleges are doing. It has changed the way many college officials determine
their institutional priorities.

A Chronicle analysis of U.S. News data from the past 24 years reveals that the
rankings game does not provide a level playing field for all contestants. The
magazine's criteria seem to overwhelmingly favor private institutions. While 10
of the top-25 national universities in 1989 were public, only three made the cut
on the most recent list. Conversely, every college that has managed to
significantly improve its rank during that time is private. (The rankings of
liberal-arts colleges, which have been evaluated in a separate category since
1983, have remained largely static.)

U.S. News's editor, Brian Kelly, defends the rankings, saying the statistics
that are compiled are accepted measures of success. Ultimately, he says, the
rankings are "a journalistic device." There has been much discussion of how much
weight should be given to each measure, but the methodology "is what it is
because we say it is," he says. "It's our best judgment of what is important."

That judgment, though, is coming under unprecedented attack. This spring 24
presidents of liberal-arts colleges, including Drew University and Lafayette
College, signed a letter excoriating the magazine for providing misleading data
that "degrade the educational worth ... of the college search process."

In the letter, the presidents also said that they would no longer fill out the
magazine's reputation survey, a central part of the rankings that asks academic
leaders to evaluate hundreds of colleges. They also pledged to refrain from
endorsing the rankings in any of their college publications or online materials.
This month the man behind the letter, Lloyd Thacker, founder of the Education
Conservancy, a nonprofit advocacy group that opposes commercial influences on
higher education, sent copies to more than 600 other college presidents.

Another potential threat to the U.S. News rankings comes from the federal
government. Last fall the secretary of education's Commission on the Future of
Higher Education recommended the creation of a database that would provide much
of the same data U.S. News uses, but would let users come up with personal
rankings based on their own criteria. The commission's chairman, Charles Miller,
said the database could take the rankings out of the "hand of one publisher."

But for now, the rankings remain as influential as ever. Colleges, and not just
consumers, have helped perpetuate the prestige of the annual list. Many
higher-education officials say U.S. News provides a crucial tool that allows
applicants to sort through a barrage of information -- something that higher
education has failed to deliver to consumers.

"We hear things like 'We here at XYZ are a commuter school, you can't compare us
to Yale,'" says Lee E. Mortimer, academic director of institutional research at
the University of Cincinnati. "But guess what? They're doing it "And so as much
as some people may think it's crap, a whole lot of others don't."

Gamesmanship?

For something that many academics say has no intellectual value, the U.S. News
rankings have been among the most studied and analyzed sets of data in higher
education. Reams of reports have been written about the rankings, how the
methodology works, and how it can be manipulated.

Colleges are reluctant to admit that they "game" the figures, but most of the
methods are so well known that many officials assume that most of their
competitors engage in them.

There are well-documented examples of institutions that have solicited nominal
donations from alumni to boost their percentage of giving, encouraged
applications from students they had no intention of accepting, or creatively
interpreted how they should report the required data to U.S. News. Albion
College took one-time gifts from graduating seniors and spread them over five
years in order to boost its alumni-giving rate, The Wall Street Journal reported
in March. Still, no matter how much any one college does on the margins, there
is little evidence that such efforts affect its standing.

"I think there's some gaming, but I don't think it's effective," says Thomas
Hayes, vice president at SimpsonScarborough, a higher-education-marketing firm.
"You have to make a very strategic effort over time to move up in the rankings."

In other words, you have to act like Baylor. One of the first steps the
university took, after appointing Van Gray, associate vice president for
strategic planning and improvement, to oversee the efforts of all departments,
was to tie money for new programs to the standards set forth in its strategic
plan. Any official who wanted money beyond his or her budget for a new project
had to fill out a form stating how that project would further the goals of
Baylor 2012.

At Baylor, as at many other institutions, the admissions office plays a crucial
role in improving the rankings because 15 percent of U.S. News's formula is
determined by measures of student selectivity, including scores on standardized
entrance exams and the institution's acceptance rate. To improve those numbers,
Baylor increased its total scholarship offerings from $38-million in 2001 to
$86-million in 2005 and created an honors college. Since 2002 applications have
increased (from 7,431 to 26,421) and the acceptance rate has dropped from 81
percent to 42 percent. Over the last five years, the average SAT score of
enrolling first-year students has risen 30 points, to 1219.

"We looked very deliberately at what kind of class we wanted because that's an
issue that's somewhat controllable," says Mr. Gray. "I believe we have attracted
much higher-performing students as the direct result of this 10-year plan."

While Baylor says the changes it is making are within the overall mission of the
institution, colleges that are ranked lower and want to rise may need to change
their very nature.

Take, for example, Chapman University.

Chapman, in the heart of Orange County, Calif., has long been known as a college
that gave a second chance to underachieving high-school students who showed
promise. When James L. Doti became president, in 1991, he says, Chapman
essentially had no admissions criteria, other than the best judgment of the
staff.

Students were "using Chapman like a community college," he says. Only 42 percent
of students graduated within five years. The university had one endowed chair.
There was almost no money for merit-based financial aid.

So Mr. Doti dropped the athletics program from Division II to Division III,
thereby eliminating all athletics scholarships.

"We took that $2-million a year in athletic aid and added it to the
financial-aid budget," he says. The institution increased its tuition one year
by 25 percent, so parents and students would perceive that the college had as
good a program as "the colleges we wanted to compete with."

Mr. Doti decided to set a minimum SAT score required for admission. "It was 740,
which is nothing great, but for Chapman, at least it was something," he says.
"The next year, it was 760. That lops off a lot of people at the bottom. Every
year we went up another 10 or 20 points." The university began a scholars
program with grants for high-achieving students.

Almost all the changes were designed expressly to help the college rise in the
U.S. News rankings. "I can quibble with the methodology, but what else is out
there?" says Mr. Doti. "We probably use it more than anything else to give us
objective data to see if we are making progress on our strategic goals."

In less than 20 years, Chapman has come to top the "selectivity rank" among
master's-level institution in the West, according to U.S. News. The minimum SAT
score is now 1050. It has 45 endowed chairs. The endowment has grown from
$20-million to $250-million. When U.S. News expanded the universe of colleges it
ranks in 1993 by adding regional institutions, Chapman was in the second
quartile of all such institutions in the West, and its academic reputation was
ranked 90th among its 112 peers. It now ranks 11th over all among master's-level
institutions in the West, and its academic reputation is tied for 14th highest
in that group.

Crunching the Numbers

The methodology has always been the key to the U.S. News rankings. It is built
on 16 separate criteria, and the magazine says it results in a comprehensive
evaluation of the overall quality of a college.

But higher-education researchers have often pointed out that U.S. News is
inordinately focused on "input measures," such as student selectivity,
faculty-student ratio, and average retention of freshmen, and financial
measures, like financial resources per student, alumni-giving rate, and faculty
salaries. At the same time, it does not emphasize "outcome" measures, such as
whether a student comes out prepared to enter the work force.

The U.S. News rankings started out in 1983 as purely a survey of college
presidents, asking them to identify the best universities and liberal-arts
colleges in the country. Editors at the magazine first incorporated the
quantitative statistical categories in 1989.

For the next decade, the editors would play with the relative weights given to
each category. The value of the student-retention measure went from 15 percent
to 25 percent in 1996, then back down to 20 percent the next year. In 1997 the
magazine put in the "value added" category, which calculates an "expected"
graduation rate, then gives an institution extra points if it exceeds that
expectation.

All in all, the values are just a guessing game. In 1997 U.S. News hired a
consultant, the National Opinion Research Center, to evaluate its methodology.
"The principal weakness of the current approach is that the weights used to
combine the various measures into an overall rating lack any defensible
empirical or theoretical basis," the analysis concluded.

Mr. Kelly, U.S. News's editor, says the "Sturm und Drang" caused annually by the
rankings "always surprises me. This happens all the time in industry. I get
surveys all the time, asking me the reputation of this, or the usefulness of
that.

"We didn't ask for this job. We didn't ask to be the arbiter of higher
education. The job has fallen to us."

The magazine is careful to say every year that one year's figures should not be
compared with previous years' because editors "change the methodology every
year." Of course, every college does make those comparisons, a point Mr. Kelly
acknowledges.

"We still see this as a journalistic product," he says. "Getting the information
right is our job. How it is used is not our concern."

Adjusting the Formula

A number of other changes in the survey may be on the table soon.

Mr. Kelly says U.S. News is always listening to ideas from college presidents
and an advisory committee of college officials established by the magazine about
how the methodology can be improved. Among other concerns, he is worried about
how to measure SAT scores, when about 735 colleges and universities -- with more
probably to come -- have made the test an optional part of the application
process.

In 2004, Sarah Lawrence College became one of the first colleges to tell its
students that scores on the standardized test would not be considered at all in
the application process. The president, Michele Tolela Myers, in a commentary in
The Washington Post, accused U.S. News of threatening to "make up" a number for
Sarah Lawrence in the SAT category. Mr. Kelly says the magazine is talking with
Sarah Lawrence about how to measure the category in a way that would be
satisfactory to both parties.

In addition, Mr. Kelly says he is concerned that fewer high schools are
releasing class ranks, another factor in the methodology. While that criterion
may have to be eliminated eventually, more than 90 percent of institutions that
responded for the 2007 rankings had class ranks for at least half of their
admitted students.

But critics say there are other glaring problems with the methodology. The
peer-reputation score, which is determined by the survey completed by
presidents, provosts, and admissions deans, still represents 25 percent of the
total score, the highest value awarded to any category.

While there has been much discussion about the letter 24 college presidents have
signed boycotting the reputational rankings, the response to the survey has been
falling for a number of years. In 2003, 67 percent of those who received the
survey filled it out. For 2006, only 57 percent of college officials did so.
(For 2007, that rose slightly to 58 percent.)

Those who fill out the survey, on average, give a score to 56 percent of the
institutions on the list, says Robert J. Morse, director of data research for
U.S. News, and the father of the university-rankings effort. The lowest response
rate is from those at regional comprehensive, master's, and bachelor's
institutions. Because college officials rate only institutions in their
category, and only the colleges they are most familiar with, the lesser-known
institutions are being rated by a much smaller peer group.

"There aren't as many people" rating them, says Mr. Morse. He declined to say
how many college officials might be rating, say, a fourth-tier, master's-level
institution in the Midwest. "We still have a statistically significant
response," he says. "We wouldn't publish a peer score if it was only based on
just a few respondents."

Mr. Kelly believes the peer ranking is so important that if college leaders
refuse to provide it, the magazine will find others who will. "We could survey
department chairmen, conceivably high-school guidance counselors, and other
people we think have the required knowledge," he says.

Another blind spot in the methodology is the measure of faculty salaries. U.S.
News instituted a cost-of-living adjustment to that factor beginning in 1996,
but has never updated it, even though the cost of living has risen faster in
some areas than in others.

"We don't have any plans to update it," says Mr. Morse. "It is serving the
analytical premise of taking the cost-of-living differences into account. It may
not be up to the minute in terms of 2007, but it is adjusting for the relative
cost of living."

He says editors have studied how to update the calculations without causing "a
lot of volatility in the rankings." After all, the methodology may be flawed,
but now that it exists, U.S. News is stuck with it. If it swings wildly from
year to year, there will be even more questions.

"If you look at the rankings from about '89 to now, there is a fair amount of
consistency," says Mr. Kelly, the editor. "We are trying to establish benchmarks
that give people a reason to rely on the integrity of the survey. It wouldn't
make too much sense if it changed too much every year."

Despite all the criticism of U.S. News, its rankings have had some positive
influence. They were instrumental in spurring colleges to create the Common Data
Set, a uniform set of data that all institutions must now report to the federal
government.

Some higher-education officials say the magazine's rankings provide colleges
with a reliable benchmark of their performance.

"It shows that we're moving in the right direction," says Mr. Mortimer, of the
University of Cincinnati, which reached 139th place in the most recent rankings,
a sharp ascent from 172nd five years ago. "There's satisfaction in knowing our
retention rates are increasing, students are engaged, and the application pool
is stronger. That's all good stuff, whether you agree with how they rank it or
not."

Winners and Losers

A funny thing happens when a college improves its standing in U.S. News --
everyone at that institution takes credit for it and pats themselves on the
back. Yet when a college's ranking falls, the rankings' methodology is to blame.

But who really cares what the rankings say?

Trustees do, college officials say. Because many trustees have backgrounds in
corporate America, they are used to external benchmarks and public-reporting
requirements. Comparing colleges with each other makes sense to them, just as
companies are compared by numbers such as their stock prices and profit margins.

Sometimes the rewards are overt: The Arizona Board of Regents approved a
contract this year that will give Michael M. Crow, president of Arizona State
University, a $10,000 bonus if the institution's U.S. News rank rises. Chronicle
surveys of college presidents and trustees within the last two years show that
trustees were twice as likely as presidents to say that improvements in their
institution's rankings were "extremely important" in defining the success of the
college's chief executive.

The University of Pennsylvania, one of the fastest rising research universities
in the U.S. News rankings, is one institution that seems to have cracked the
code. In 1994, Penn ranked 50th in the faculty-resources category. By 2002 it
ranked first in that category, a position it has held ever since. Partly as a
result, Penn's overall rank rose from 16th in 1994 to as high as fourth, most
recently in 2006. This year it ranks seventh.

The university's strategy "includes the recruitment and retention of an
ever-more-eminent faculty, reduced class size, increased financial aid, greater
opportunities for undergraduates to engage in research, and optimizing
opportunities for interdisciplinary work," says a spokesman, Ron Ozio. "We will
continue to pursue that strategy regardless of where we stand in any external
rankings."

A former Penn official said the institution was constantly evaluating its
programs and how they were doing in the rankings.

"The effect of different policies on the rankings was constantly being taken
into account," says Colin S. Diver, dean of the law school at Penn from 1989 to
1999, and now president of Reed College. "My sense was, trustees who really
cared about the rankings were particularly influential."

Reed began refusing to participate in the rankings in 1995. Mr. Diver, who has
been president there since 2002, said, "I feel fortunate that I live in the part
of the educational world that can thumb its nose at U.S. News."

Penn was helped by having a lot of cash to pay for the improvements that drove
up its rank. Money, however, does not always help. Just ask the University of
Connecticut. The university hit the jackpot in 1995 when the state made a
strategic $1-billion investment in it. Seven years later, UConn received an even
bigger windfall: Connecticut's General Assembly approved an additional
$1.3-billion for the university.

Both of the cash infusions were supposed to make the university more competitive
in the crowded New England higher-education market, according to M. Dolan
Evanovich, Connecticut's vice provost for enrollment management. Mr. Evanovich
says new apartments and suites for upperclassmen, combined with efforts to
enhance students' learning experiences in the classroom, have paid off.

From 1996 to 2006, average SAT scores of entering freshmen rose to 1195 from
1113. In 2007 the university received 21,080 applications for 3,200 spots, up
from 13,800 five years earlier. Since 1995 the number of out-of-state students
enrolling has doubled to 30 percent, and both graduation and retention rates
have consistently improved.

Over the last four years, however, UConn has fallen in the U.S. News rankings,
to 67th from 64th place. One possible reason: Its "peer assessment" ranking has
remained virtually unchanged during that time, inching up only one-tenth of a
point.

"Moving that figure is so difficult," says Mr. Evanovich. "But I think our
national reputation is improving dramatically and that positive momentum will
eventually show up in our reputation ranking."

Is There Another Way?

There is no shortage of alternative systems for ranking colleges, but none have
been able to usurp the supremacy of the U.S. News rankings.

Many higher-education officials say the National Survey of Student Engagement,
or Nessie, run by the Indiana University Center for Postsecondary Research,
gives them much more useful information about the impact they are making on
their students' lives and intellectual growth. The U.S. News criteria, critics
say, often puts too much emphasis on the type of student a college can enroll
instead of the progress students make after arriving on campus.

But the likelihood of the Nessie results ever reaching consumers is slim. Part
of the reason is that they are confidential, and Nessie's founder has repeatedly
said he has no intention of making the results publicly available, though
colleges are free to publicize their own scores.

In addition, most of the institutions ranked at the top by U.S. News decline to
participate in the Nessie process. Researchers have suggested that after
investing heavily to make themselves look more attractive in the U.S. News
rankings, they don't want to risk being outshone by lesser-known competitors.

A number of other college guides exist, including those produced by Fiske and
the Princeton Review, but none seek to attach specific numerical ranks to
colleges. "The ranking is pretty silly, but it speaks to a powerful American
inclination," says John V. Lombardi, chancellor of the University of
Massachusetts at Amherst. "People like any rankings that are related to
prestige." He has started a center that compares the amount of research money
attracted by 82 large universities in the United States, but he does not use the
data to rank the institutions.

The U.S. News rankings clearly are not going to go away, but can they become
more evenhanded in measuring university performance?

Jeffrey S. Lehman, former president of Cornell University, has thought a lot
about the rankings and suggested changes over a group dinner where he happened
to be seated next to Mortimer B. Zuckerman, the owner of U.S. News. As they are
now constituted, he believes the rankings hurt a college because they force it
to act in one extreme way or another, and rarely in the best interest of
everyone there.

The rankings, for example, weigh average class size, but not average hours of
student contact with tenured professors, he says. They measure spending on
student aid, but not a university's tuition levels. They take into account the
percentage of alumni who make gifts, but not the average size of their gifts.

"I wish that U.S. News would revise its methodology to focus on trade-offs," Mr.
Lehman says. "The rankings could help to promote educational quality, rather
than distorting institutional behavior, and could provide prospective students
with a much more realistic view of the different choices that different
universities are making."

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Chronicle of Philanthropy
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    The News & Advance (Lynchburg, Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 10, 2007 Tuesday

Sweet Briar boycotting U.S. News and World Report rankings

BYLINE: Christa Desrets, The News & Advance, Lynchburg, Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 747 words


Jul. 10--Sweet Briar College is among a growing group of colleges and
universities across the country that are refusing to fill out a survey that
helps determine how colleges line up in the U.S. News and World Report annual
America's Best College Rankings.

Participating schools will no longer fill out the survey, which they say is
little more than a "popularity contest." They also will no longer use the
rankings to promote their school, no matter how favorably they placed.

U.S. News gathers information about hundreds of schools every year and ranks the
top schools.

Some colleges are critical of the peer assessment survey, which determines 25
percent of a school's score.

"What you're asked to do is simply rate all of these hundreds of colleges," said
Sweet Briar President Elisabeth Muhlenfeld, adding that few of the even most
well-informed school officials know more than 10 or 15 schools intimately enough
to rank them.

"It's purely popularity -- it's really a popularity contest and a visibility
contest. And that is just unscientific, and in many respects does a disservice
to students looking for a college."

Sweet Briar, which tied for number 74 in the 2007 rankings for best liberal arts
colleges, is one of 125 schools that comprise the Annapolis Group, a consortium
of colleges leading the fight against the rankings.

U.S. News has responded to those who are critical of the surveys by saying that
a school's reputation among its peers is a factor that can help its students get
jobs or placement in a reputable graduate school.

"We at U.S. News firmly believe the survey has significant value because it
allows us to measure the 'intangibles' of a college which we can't measure
through statistical data," wrote Robert Morse in a June 22 blog entry. He is
director of data research who helps develop methodologies and surveys for the
rankings.

"...The peer survey is by nature subjective, but the technique of asking
industry leaders to rate their competitors is a commonly accepted practice."

The other 75 percent of a school's score is based on a formula that measures
academic quality, according to the U.S. News Web site.

Muhlenfeld said she hopes a new system would improve upon that of the U.S. News.

"Now this is a tough thing -- it's not easy to measure quality," Muhlenfeld
said. "It's just that the liberal arts colleges, particularly, feel that simply
measuring the opinions of presidents, deans and deans of admission is not
actually getting at that quality."

Members of the Annapolis Group are working with the National Association of
Independent Colleges and Universities to develop an alternative format for
presenting information on colleges.

"It's an attempt to compare apples and apples across all of the private colleges
that are part of this," Muhlenfeld said. "The public needs to know this stuff."

Randolph College, which also is in the Annapolis Group, has not yet decided
whether to participate in the boycott rankings, said spokeswoman Brenda Edson.
The school is waiting for the arrival next month of its new president, former
business executive John E. Klein.

Four other Virginia schools -- Washington and Lee University, Hampden-Sydney
College, Hollins University and Randolph-Macon College -- also are in the
Annapolis Group.

"The majority of the 80 presidents who were present in the (Annapolis Group's)
June meeting said they would no longer fill out the peer review because it's
very, very subjective," said Patricia Lawson, a spokeswoman at Gettysburg
College in Pennsylvania. The president of Gettysburg College, Katherine Will, is
the chair of the Annapolis Group.

U.S. News asks three officials at each college to complete the survey of 260
colleges by ranking them on a scale from one to five, Lawson said.

A box labeled "don't know" is provided for anyone unfamiliar with any of the
colleges, according to the U.S. News Web site.

The site warns those shopping for a college to not rely solely on the rankings,
but instead use them as one of many tools to sort through heaps of information
and make an informed decision.

To see more of The News & Advance, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.newsadvance.com. Copyright (c) 2007, The News & Advance, Lynchburg,
Va. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070710-LY-0710-Sweet-Briar-boycotting-U-S-News-and-World-Report-
rankings

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LY


                       Copyright 2007 The News & Advance

                              228 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 30, 2007 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

College Rankings Are 'Lame Science'

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 201 words


When Dickinson College chose not to participate in the U.S. News  & World Report
rankings of colleges, I imagined the decision would evoke some criticism,  but
never the charge Robert J. Samuelson made  of "anti-intellectualism" [op-ed,
June 27]. "Intellectual" to me means thoughtful. The problem with the U.S. News
rankings is that they are not "intellectual." They are, as some higher education
experts label them, lame science.

Mr. Samuelson also missed the point in suggesting nonparticipating colleges are
trying to censor U.S. News. The magazine is of course free to continue its
rankings, as are others. We are simply saying that we will not participate in an
exercise that, in our view, misleads prospective students more than it helps and
drives up college costs by encouraging spending in pursuit of rankings on a
fictional prestige ladder invented by U.S. News.

Mr. Samuelson is right, however, in insisting that colleges and universities
provide full, accurate and comparable information on their programs. That,
rather than artificial rankings, is the kind of assistance prospective students
and their parents need in college searches.

NEIL B. WEISSMAN

Provost and Dean

Dickinson College

Carlisle, Pa.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  Bar & Bench

                           July 11, 2011 8:31 AM EST

India Today Rankings Out - Statistics raise concerns: NALSAR -1, NLSIU - 2,
NLIU-Bhopal 3, DU Law Faculty -4, Symbiosis-5, WBNUJS - 6 (UPDATED)

LENGTH: 839  words


India today has ranked NALSAR as the best law school in the country followed by
NLSIU, Bangalore and NLIU, Bhopal.  According to the India Today website, the
magazine partnered with The Nielsen Company and conducted the survey to
determine the best undergraduate colleges in India in six disciplines namely
Arts, Science, Commerce, Engineering, Medical and Law.

India today has ranked NALSAR as the best law school in the country followed by
NLSIU, Bangalore and NLIU, Bhopal.

According to the India Today website, the magazine partnered with The Nielsen
Company and conducted the survey to determine the best undergraduate colleges in
India in six disciplines namely Arts, Science, Commerce, Engineering, Medical
and Law.

There is some disparity between what is published in the print edition and the
online edition. Therefore, we have decided to publish both the ranking tables
and the parameters. Although there is no change in the rankings, there are some
disparities in the table and the parameters.

The print version of the article mentions an overall score of the law schools
which enables us to determine the college rankings. NALSAR scored 100 while
NLSIU, Bangalore was a distant second with an overall score of 80.11. ILS, Pune
which was ranked as the best law school in 2005 was ranked 7th, with an overall
score of 55.42.

The Rankings and the parameters listed in the magazine are mentioned below*.

*The magazine edition ranks the entire Faculty of Law, Delhi University as Rank
4, while the online version mentioned below ranks Campus Law Centre (which is
one of the colleges affiliated to the Delhi University)  as Rank 4.

The Online version of the rankings
(http://indiatoday.intoday.in/site/specials/bestcolleges/2011/ranks.jsp?ST=Law&Y
=2011) and the parameters are mentioned below.

Few months back they conducted an online poll to rank colleges. But this doesn't
find a mention in the explanation (http://indiatoday.intoday.in/site/story/best-
colleges-in-india-2011-methodology/1/143628.html) of ranking system.

Step two of the ranking system is explained as "The experts were asked to
distribute 100 points amongst five parameters- Reputation of Colleges, Quality
of Academic Input, Student Care, Infrastructure and Job Prospects. Hence,
weightage of each of these parameters was derived."

The experts were asked to rate according to their perception. The perception of
the experts might not be the actual scenario. For eg: Job Prospects of a college
can be evaluated only after studying the placement pattern of the students, how
can this be perceived by an expert without any statistical study?

Another concern with the methodology is; For the parameter wise rankings
National Law University, Jodpur was ranked 8 in placements and Symbiosis Law
School was ranked 6. Bar & Bench has earlier covered placements of both NLUJ
(http://www.barandbench.com/../brief/2/1543/recruitment-tracker-nlu-jodhpur-mass
ive-hiring-by-luthra-12-to-13-lakh-pay-package-for-freshers-only-9-opt-for-litig
ation) and Symbiosis
(http://www.barandbench.com/../brief/2/1517/recruitment-tracker-symbiosis-law-sc
hools-placements-conclude-30-join-lpos-icici-and-legasis-top-recruiters).  These
reports indicate NLUJ has 84.84% placements and Symbiosis has 41.1 % placements.
This is very much enough to indicate the ranking is flawed. The difference
between the placements is almost double.

Also NLSIU was ranked 1 in placements, NUJS ranked 4 and NALSAR was ranked 2.
Interestingly NLIU Bhopal was ranked 3. Bar & Bench has earlier reported that
NLSIU
(http://www.barandbench.com/../brief/2/1515/recruitment-tracker-nlsiu-raps-up-wi
th-a-100-), NALSAR
(http://www.barandbench.com/../brief/2/1409/recruitment-tracker-nalsar-witnesses
-100-per-cent-recruitment-this-year) and NUJS
(http://www.barandbench.com/../brief/2/1539/recruitment-tracker-nujs-places-cent
-percent-students-amarchand-top-recruiter-conversation-with-campus-recruitment-c
ommittee-member) have got cent percent placements after the analysis of
recruitment data received from the colleges. So differential ranking of these
colleges in placements factor also seems to be flawed.

Another concern with the methodology is for the parameter wise rankings; Christ
College of Law, GLC, Mumbai and Bharati Vidyapeeth's New Law College, Pune; for
these three colleges, India Today has not given parameter rankings and has
ranked them 15, 16 and 17 respectively. Also for Faculty of Law, the ICFAI
University (ICFAI Law School),Dehradun, Faculty of Law, University of Lucknow
and Faculty of Law, University of Allahabad, Allahabad  India Today has not
given parameter rankings and has been ranked 19,22 and 25 respectively.

Earlier Bar & Bench has reported that "The Week" magazine has come out with
rankings (http://www.barandbench.com/../brief/2/1544/another-ranking
-with-no-indication-of-methodology-week-magazine-says-nls-1-nuals-2-nalsar-3nujs
-13-nluj-25) with no indication as to methodology.

India Today has been ranking colleges since 1998. Here are their rankings of
various law schools.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


             Copyright 2011 Bar & Bench, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                             June 24, 2008 Tuesday

It's finding the right college

BYLINE: THOMAS SOWELL

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 672 words


The obsession of many high school students and their parents about getting into
a prestigious college or university is part of the social scene of our time. So
is the experience of parents going deep into hock to finance sending a son or
daughter off to Ivy U. or the flagship campus of the state university system.

Sometimes both the student and the parent end up with big debts from financing a
degree from some prestige institution. Yet these are the kinds of institutions
that many have their hearts set on.

Media hype adds to the pressure to go where the prestige is. A key role is often
played by the various annual rankings of colleges and universities, especially
the rankings by U.S. News & World Report. These rankings typically measure all
sorts of inputs but not outputs.

The official academic accrediting agencies do the same thing. They measure how
much money is spent on this or that, how many professors have tenure and other
kinds of inputs. What they don't measure is the output what kind of education
the students end up with.

A new think tank in Washington is trying to shift the emphasis from inputs to
outputs. The Center for College Affordability and Productivity is headed by
Richard Vedder, who gives the U.S. News rankings a grade of D. Measuring the
inputs, he says, is "roughly equivalent to evaluating a chef based on the
ingredients he or she uses."

His approach is to "review the meal" - that is, the outcome of the education
itself.

The CCAP study uses several measures of educational output, including the
proportion of a college's graduates who win awards like the Rhodes Scholarships
or who end up listed in "Who's Who in America," as well as the ratings that
students give the professors who teach them.

Vedder admits that these are "imperfect" measures of a college's educational
output, but at least they are measures of output instead of input.

Some academic institutions come out at or near the top by either input or output
criteria, but there were some large changes in rankings as well.

Among national universities, the top three are the same - but in different order
whether ranked by U.S. News or by the Center for College Affordability and
Productivity. They are Harvard, Yale and Princeton, according to Vedder's think
tank, and Princeton, Harvard and Yale in the U.S. News rankings.

Among the liberal arts colleges, however, there were some big changes. Although
Williams and Amherst were the top two in both rankings, Washington & Lee moved
up from 15th to 6th when ranked by Vedder's group and Barnard climbed from 30th
to 8th.

Whitman College, which was ranked 37th by U.S. News on the basis of the
college's inputs, jumped to 9th when evaluated on its output by Vedder and
company. Wabash College jumped from 52nd to 10th. West Point rose from 22nd to
7th.

One of my own favorite measures of output - the percentage of a college's
graduates who go on to get Ph.D.s - was not used by either set of evaluations.

Small colleges dominate the top 10 in sending their alumni on to get doctorates.
Grinnell College, which was not among the top 10 on either the U.S. News list or
on Vedder's list, sends a higher percentage of its graduates on to get Ph.D.s
than does either Harvard or Yale.

No given criterion tells the whole story. In fact, the whole idea of ranking
colleges and universities is open to question.

To someone who is making a decision where to apply, what matters is what is the
best institution for that particular individual, which may not be best - or even
advisable-for that applicant's brother or sister.

"Choosing the Right College" is by far the best of the college guides, partly
because it does not give rankings, but more because it goes into the many
factors that matter - and which matter differently for different people.

What Vedder's study does is provide yet another reason for parents and students
not to obsess over big-name schools or their rankings - or to go deep into hock
over them.

(Thomas Sowell is an economist and teacher. His syndicated column appears
Tuesdays.)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2008 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                             June 24, 2008 Tuesday

It's finding the right college

BYLINE: THOMAS SOWELL

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 672 words


The obsession of many high school students and their parents about getting into
a prestigious college or university is part of the social scene of our time. So
is the experience of parents going deep into hock to finance sending a son or
daughter off to Ivy U. or the flagship campus of the state university system.

Sometimes both the student and the parent end up with big debts from financing a
degree from some prestige institution. Yet these are the kinds of institutions
that many have their hearts set on.

Media hype adds to the pressure to go where the prestige is. A key role is often
played by the various annual rankings of colleges and universities, especially
the rankings by U.S. News & World Report. These rankings typically measure all
sorts of inputs but not outputs.

The official academic accrediting agencies do the same thing. They measure how
much money is spent on this or that, how many professors have tenure and other
kinds of inputs. What they don't measure is the output what kind of education
the students end up with.

A new think tank in Washington is trying to shift the emphasis from inputs to
outputs. The Center for College Affordability and Productivity is headed by
Richard Vedder, who gives the U.S. News rankings a grade of D. Measuring the
inputs, he says, is "roughly equivalent to evaluating a chef based on the
ingredients he or she uses."

His approach is to "review the meal" - that is, the outcome of the education
itself.

The CCAP study uses several measures of educational output, including the
proportion of a college's graduates who win awards like the Rhodes Scholarships
or who end up listed in "Who's Who in America," as well as the ratings that
students give the professors who teach them.

Vedder admits that these are "imperfect" measures of a college's educational
output, but at least they are measures of output instead of input.

Some academic institutions come out at or near the top by either input or output
criteria, but there were some large changes in rankings as well.

Among national universities, the top three are the same - but in different order
whether ranked by U.S. News or by the Center for College Affordability and
Productivity. They are Harvard, Yale and Princeton, according to Vedder's think
tank, and Princeton, Harvard and Yale in the U.S. News rankings.

Among the liberal arts colleges, however, there were some big changes. Although
Williams and Amherst were the top two in both rankings, Washington & Lee moved
up from 15th to 6th when ranked by Vedder's group and Barnard climbed from 30th
to 8th.

Whitman College, which was ranked 37th by U.S. News on the basis of the
college's inputs, jumped to 9th when evaluated on its output by Vedder and
company. Wabash College jumped from 52nd to 10th. West Point rose from 22nd to
7th.

One of my own favorite measures of output - the percentage of a college's
graduates who go on to get Ph.D.s - was not used by either set of evaluations.

Small colleges dominate the top 10 in sending their alumni on to get doctorates.
Grinnell College, which was not among the top 10 on either the U.S. News list or
on Vedder's list, sends a higher percentage of its graduates on to get Ph.D.s
than does either Harvard or Yale.

No given criterion tells the whole story. In fact, the whole idea of ranking
colleges and universities is open to question.

To someone who is making a decision where to apply, what matters is what is the
best institution for that particular individual, which may not be best - or even
advisable-for that applicant's brother or sister.

"Choosing the Right College" is by far the best of the college guides, partly
because it does not give rankings, but more because it goes into the many
factors that matter - and which matter differently for different people.

What Vedder's study does is provide yet another reason for parents and students
not to obsess over big-name schools or their rankings - or to go deep into hock
over them.

(Thomas Sowell is an economist and teacher. His syndicated column appears
Tuesdays.)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2008 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                             June 2, 2010 Wednesday

Ranking the college rankings;
For all their importance, there's little consensus on what the college rankings
actually mean.

BYLINE: Lee Lawrence Correspondent

LENGTH: 603 words


In 1999, Yongjun Huang was graduating from high school in Xindu, China, and
looking to study mechanical engineering. Now a Georgia Tech graduate, he says he
"compared dozens of schools" in China and the US with the only tools available:
"traditional reputation" and the college rankings in US News & World Report and
the Princeton Review.

But by the time another young Xindu student was looking to study abroad in 2009,
the rankings industry had boomed, says Qiuyun Wang, whose parents expected her
"to go to a world-famous college." A dozen rankings focused solely on the US and
about 10 compared universities around the globe.

The Huangs and the Wangs aren't the only ones who care about the ratings. When
the US lost four slots in the top 200 of the Times Higher Education World
University Rankings, and Asia claimed five more spots in 2009, headline writers
were quick to declare the US was losing dominance in higher education.
Universities and colleges monitor rankings as carefully as TV networks monitor
the Nielsens, and when institutions seek partners for joint programs or
exchanges, they check to make sure they don't marry down.

But for all the reliance on rankings, there is little consensus on what they
mean.

[T]here is a limited number of measures that are genuinely useful across
nations," says Phil Baty, editor of the Times Higher Education rankings, a
leader in the field based in London. He says it's nearly impossible to get hard
data about quality of research and teaching, but there are "proxies."

For the Academic Ranking of World Universities, out of Shanghai, one "proxy" is
the number of graduates who later won prestigious awards, such as Nobel prizes
(Harvard University is top). The Webometrics Ranking of World's Universities,
compiled by the Spanish National Research Council, considers an institution's
Web presence - e-journals, archived documents, Internet-based scholarly
exchanges - as a gauge of research performance. (Harvard, again, is top.)

Mr. Baty's group looks at the volume of papers published per number of faculty
to gauge brainpower, and at how many times an institution's research is cited to
gauge importance of research. (Overall top: Harvard.) Even this straightforward
approach has pitfalls. Not every discipline generates the same volume of
research papers and citations, Baty explains, so this favors institutions heavy
in the hard sciences and medicine and "really disadvantages" some excellent US
liberal arts colleges. His group now weights data differently, and expects
places like Stanford (which ranked 16th behind Cornell, Duke, and Johns Hopkins
in 2009) to rise.

Assessing teaching quality is trickier: Nobody yet has a way to compare what
students in different systems have learned, says Baty, so the "proxy" is to ask
faculty to rate institutions. It's controversial because there's typically no
oversight of who actually fills out the surveys. To improve its reliability,
Baty's organization is targeting select senior professors with "action-based
questions," he explains. "Rather than saying 'Where is the best English or
medicine department,' we're asking 'If you were sending your talented
undergraduate for further study, which institution would you choose?"

Baty believes this inform future rankings. Still, there will always be those
who, like Miss Wang, place higher value on their own priorities than rankings.
She decided early on that she wanted a small women's college and, despite her
parents' entreaties, chose Agnes Scott College in Georgia (59th in US News &
World Report listings of liberal arts colleges and not noted in world rankings).

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2010 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                              June 1, 2014 Sunday

Daytona State aims to improve state rankings

BYLINE: Annie Martin, Annie Martin annie.martin@news-jrnl.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 930  words


Higher Education

DAYTONA BEACH -- Daytona State College found itself in an unenviable position --
dead last -- when an unofficial ranking of Florida's 28 community colleges was
recently released by a group of college leaders from across the state.

The rankings -- based on seven student-centered factors, including how likely
students were to complete their programs and secure jobs after they graduated --
got the attention of college officials because they are the sort of thing that
will be used in the future to help determine funding for state colleges. The
good news, officials stress, is that these rankings are not final, and
performance-based money may or may not be distributed based on the same
variables.

But the ranking underscores how the state is taking an increasingly do-or-die
approach to funding education. Part of the funding for the state's four-year
universities is based on similar calculations now.

Earlier this year, Gov. Rick Scott urged lawmakers to agree to divvy up $80
million, including $40 million in new funding and $40 million in existing
funding, to the state colleges based on their students' performance. That won't
happen for this year, but college officials say they anticipate some of their
funding will be tied to performance as early as 2015. Funding for state colleges
is based on several factors now, including enrollment.

Reacting to the news, Daytona State trustees said during a regular meeting May
22 they were alarmed to see the college had fared so poorly in the ranking,
which was developed by the Council of Presidents and Chancellor Randy Hanna's
office. President Carol Eaton said she was surprised when she saw Daytona
State's position in the ranking, but she's not against tying funding to the
college's output.

"We're not trying to dodge this," Eaton said. "We all understand performance
funding is where we are and we welcome it and we welcome public accountability."

Under the ranking formula, colleges could earn as many as 70 points based on
performance and improvement over a multi-year period. The best-scoring schools
(North Florida Community College in Madison and Valencia College in Orange
County) each tallied 40 points, while Daytona State earned 24.5 points.
Adjustments were made to even the playing field between institutions serving
widely varying numbers of students and socioeconomic areas.

Daytona state's weakest area, according to the ranking, was in finances.
Spending $13,124 per graduate in 2012-13, Daytona State had among the highest
costs per graduate in the state. The costs at other colleges ranged from $9,468
(Miami Dade College) to $21,556 (Florida Keys Community College).

Eaton said the high costs stem from the economic downturn. Between 2008 and
2010, the college rapidly added students -- and staff members. Enrollment has
dropped during the past few years, but the number of staff members hasn't kept
pace. The equivalent of about 11,600 full-time students attend the college this
year, down from about 14,000 during the 2009-2010 school year.

"It was very obvious to us that we had not made the appropriate realignment
based on decreased enrollment numbers," Eaton said.

To save nearly $1.2 million during the next fiscal year, which starts July 1,
college officials announced in March they won't renew the contracts of 18
full-time and four part-time employees at theof June.

Daytona State fared better in other areas, including the percentage of graduates
employed in Florida (67.3 percent, slightly above the state average of 66.5
percent) within a year of graduation. Other variables included the college
graduates' wages, the time it takes them to earn a degree, and student transfer,
retention, and completion rates.

Eaton and John Grosskopf, the president of North Florida Community College, say
they hope only new money is tied to student performance data. Grosskopf's
school, which serves six rural counties in north Florida, tied with Valencia
College in Orange County at the top of the rankings.

"I wouldn't want to see a lower-performing school lose money that is then
reallocated to a higher-performing school," said Grosskopf, who is the chairman
of the Council of Presidents, which includes the leaders of the 28 colleges.
It's unclear how much a poor ranking would impact a college's funding.

The college presidents' group and the chancellor's office also are considering
allowing colleges to each select a variable that would be factored into their
ranking. Eaton suggested Daytona State's well-regarded online bachelor's degree
programs or the faculty-driven research projects could help boost the college's
rating.

"On average, when you look at completion rates, they're not where they need to
be," Eaton said. "What we can do is offer students the opportunity to have
shorter programs, like certificate programs," Eaton said.

She pointed out that under the current formula, success in one area can hurt the
college in another area. She used the example of a nursing student who earns her
licensed practical nurse credentials after a year of full-time coursework. After
that, she can work under a nurse's supervision, performing tasks like taking
patients' vital signs. She can also continue part time as a student and work
toward a two-year or four-year degree. If she completes the program, she'll help
boost the college's completion rate. But if she takes too long, she'll hurt the
college's time-to-completion, even if she's attending part-time classes.

The key for the state colleges, Eaton said, is to make sure students understand
their options.

"It's a fine balance," she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2014 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2014 News-Journal Corporation

                              234 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                            August 20, 2009 Thursday

Caltech ranks 4th on magazines list of best colleges in the country

BYLINE: By Emma Gallegos, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 390 words


The popular U.S. News & World Report rankings of national universities are out
for 2010 - and Caltech in Pasadena moved up two spots from last year to tie with
MIT, Stanford University and the University of Pennsylvania for fourth place.

Harvard University and Princeton University tied for the top spot, and Yale
University took the No. 3 spot.

Caltech also maintained its No. 4 ranking as one of the top undergraduate
engineering programs in the country. It was also ranked No. 2 for schools where
students leave with the least amount of debt, and No. 8 in the "Great Schools,
Great Prices" category.

Occidental College ranked No. 33 on a list of national liberal arts colleges
topped by Williams College.

The annual rankings are a good way for students to learn about schools when they
get started in their college search, said Rick Bischoff, director of admissions
at Caltech.

"Early in the process, they put a lot of credence in the rankings," Bischoff
said. "That changes as they move on in the process."

The magazine takes into account factors like SAT scores, peer reputation,
selectivity and alumni donations, but it also tweaks the ranking methods from
year-to-year.

For instance, as more selective colleges have made efforts to enroll more
disadvantaged students, the magazine has started using the proportion of
low-income students to make their ranking.

Some of the hallmarks of a good education are hard to quantify, Bischoff said.
U.S. News & World Report or other publications like Forbes Magazine try to use
proxies like rates of alumni giving and retention, which may not get at the
heart of the educational experience.

Bischoff said he was surprised that U.S. News & World Report just began trying
to rate something that seems like it should be at the heart of any ranking
system - the quality of undergraduate teaching.

The U.S. News & World Report rankings are particularly helpful for students in
underserved communities, especially those who are the first in their family to
go to college, Bischoff said.

"When you don't have a lot of knowledge about colleges and universities, it's
one place where you can get one opinion about colleges and universities,"
Bischoff said.

There's one thing that Bischoff knows for sure about the rankings

"It's certainly better to rank highly," he said.

emma.gallegos@sgvn.com

(626) 578-6300, Ext. 4444

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2009 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            August 20, 2009 Thursday

Caltech ranks 4th on magazine's list of best colleges in the country

BYLINE: By Emma Gallegos Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 390 words


The popular U.S. News & World Report rankings of national universities are out
for 2010 - and Caltech in Pasadena moved up two spots from last year to tie with
MIT, Stanford University and the University of Pennsylvania for fourth place.

Harvard University and Princeton University tied for the top spot, and Yale
University took the No. 3 spot.

Caltech also maintained its No. 4 ranking as one of the top undergraduate
engineering programs in the country. It was also ranked No. 2 for schools where
students leave with the least amount of debt, and No. 8 in the "Great Schools,
Great Prices" category.

Occidental College ranked No. 33 on a list of national liberal arts colleges
topped by Williams College.

The annual rankings are a good way for students to learn about schools when they
get started in their college search, said Rick Bischoff, director of admissions
at Caltech.

"Early in the process, they put a lot of credence in the rankings," Bischoff
said. "That changes as they move on in the process."

The magazine takes into account factors like SAT scores, peer reputation,
selectivity and alumni donations, but it also tweaks the ranking methods from
year to year.

For instance, as more selective colleges have made efforts to enroll more
disadvantaged students, the magazine has started using the proportion of
low-income students to make their rankings.

Some of the hallmarks of a good education are hard to quantify, Bischoff said.
U.S. News & World Report or other publications like Forbes Magazine try to use
proxies like rates of alumni giving and retention, which may not get at the
heart of the educational experience.

Bischoff said he was surprised that U.S. News & World Report just began trying
to rate something that seems like it should be at the heart of any ranking
system - the quality of undergraduate teaching.

The U.S. News & World Report rankings are particularly helpful for students in
underserved communities, especially those who are the first in their family to
go to college, Bischoff said.

"When you don't have a lot of knowledge about colleges and universities, it's
one place where you can get one opinion about colleges and universities,"
Bischoff said.

There's one thing that Bischoff knows for sure about the rankings.

"It's certainly better to rank highly," he said.

emma.gallegos@sgvn.com

(626) 578-6300, Ext. 4444

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2009 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             April 11, 2017 Tuesday

Topsy-turvy college rankings leave students and profs baffled

BYLINE: Hemali Chhapia

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 519 words


MUMBAI: Contrary institution rankings by bodies connected with the central
government, one directly , has left millions of students puzzled. Sample this:
Gauhati University as per the ranking chart of one rating body (NIRF) is several
places higher than institutions that had higher ratings by another body (NAAC).
Then, Bharathiar University , which arguably few have heard of, is ranked higher
than the esteemed Tata Institute of Social Sciences in the NIRF's chart. In
fact, rankings of the top 50 universities by the NIRF (National Institutional
Ranking Framework) and the NAAC (National Assessment and Accreditation Council)
are widely divergent.While NIRF is a methodology adopted by the Union ministry
of human resource development, NAAC is an autonomous body funded by the
University Grants Commission (UGC). The two use different sets of parameters for
their ranking exercises.Across academia, the NIRF rankings have drawn the accu
sation of not reflecting reality.With institute participation being voluntary
and data self-reporting in nature, followed by no moderation, experts are
questioning the authenticity of the inputs.

A section of faculty members at Mumbai University (ranked by NIRF in the 101150
bracket [India]) questioned the veracity of the system.They not only looked at
NAAC scores (quite high for MU), but also at the latest QS World University
rankings, where MU is at 145 (Asia) and Pune University at 176. Professors thus
wonder how a ranking of just Indian universities saw MU slip so low. "The vast
difference in the two rankings, one an established international system and the
other a newly designed allIndia ranking, seem simply too drastic. Should there
not be broad conformity in ranking outcomes?" said Neeraj Hatekar, head, Mumbai
School of Economics and Public Policy .A former NAAC director said he didn't
understand the NIRF's results. "What does one say? Obviously the central
government has more wisdom," he mocked. In a throwback to 2009, many compared
this "embarrassing" situation to the face-off between NAAC and the Tandan
committee, which blacklisted 44 deemed universities for failing to meet a range
of quality parameters.NIT Delhi chairman and former IIT Kanpur director Sanjay
Dhande said there are fundamental problems with institute ranks and scores.
"One, if you want to draw up rankings, you must ensure that there are common
criteria.Two ministry departments don't speak to each other, little realizing
who the ranks are for--prospective students and their parents who need to decide
college A over B. Also, put up all data that institutes submit online so that
students know what is available at each college."Ranking lists need to be
cohesive, he said. "What is the point of putting all the IITs on top of
engineering colleges? It does not make sense to compare a Changaram
Gangaramaffiliated college to an IIT. If a student wants to join an engineering
college in his hometown, there ought to be a rank list. Make clusters of
colleges and then rank them. Each cluster ought to have its own set of quality
parameters."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Journal-World (Lawrence, Kansas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 17, 2007 Friday

Ranking moves up to No. 38

BYLINE: Jonathan Kealing, Journal-World, Lawrence, Kan.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 441 words


Aug. 17--Kansas University moved up one spot to 38th in the 2008 rankings of
public universities by U.S. News & World Report.

This is the second year the university's ranking has climbed since reaching a
low of 45th in the 2006 rankings.

The rankings, which hit newsstands Monday in the magazine's annual "America's
Best Colleges" guide, are facing particularly vocal complaints this year from a
group of colleges and educators working to develop an alternative to the system.

So far, the group led by education activist Lloyd Thacker has not formally
enlisted any of the top-ranked schools. But the magazine has responded to one
complaint: that the rankings punish schools for enrolling low-income students.
For the first time this year, U.S. News is factoring the percentage of students
receiving Pell Grants, financial aid from the U.S. government, into its
calculation of a school's "graduation rate performance."

In announcing its ranking Thursday evening, KU also touted its profile in the
Fiske Guide to Colleges. Kansas University is the only institution in the state
included and is cited as a "best buy" because of its combination of academics,
athletics and social life.

"Our peer score went up a tenth," said KU spokesman Todd Cohen. "Generally, in
rankings, we're just glad to be mentioned. You don't expect massive jumps
overnight."

The Fiske Guide this year also pointed out KU's strong drawing power throughout
the Midwest, saying it is double that of the University of Missouri-Columbia.

Princeton holds the top spot in the latest U.S. News & World Report college
rankings. It's the eighth straight year the private school has either tied or
held the top slot outright.

Just like last year, Princeton was followed by Harvard at No. 2 and Yale at No.
3 in the controversial rankings. Stanford was No. 4, followed by Cal Tech and
the University of Pennsylvania, which tied for fifth.

The formula for the rankings includes variables such as graduation and retention
rates, faculty and financial resources, and the percentage of alumni donating
money to their alma mater. The biggest single variable -- and the most
controversial -- is a reputation assessment by peer institutions.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

To see more of the Journal-World, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.ljworld.com. Copyright (c) 2007, Journal-World, Lawrence, Kan.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070817-LW-COLLEGE-RANKINGS-20070817

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LW


                          Copyright 2007 Journal-World

                              238 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                           September 16, 2012 Sunday

College Town

BYLINE: Bonnie Russell

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 1148 words


COLUMN: College Town

A new college ranking system has given College of the Holy Cross an overall rank
of fifth in the nation based on survey questions its alumni answered without
being aware that the tally of their responses would be used to rank their alma
mater.

And that makes it objective, according to Monica McGurk, CEO and executive
editor of The Alumni Factor.

"We used a number of different channels to get people to take the survey, but it
was never identified as a college ranking survey," she said.

The Alumni Factor findings are based on surveys and interviews with more than
42,000 alumni from over 450 schools during the past four years. Researchers
measured 15 different factors, including income, net worth, job opportunities,
intellectual development and overall happiness.

Some questions were very specific such as those about net worth, while others
were left up to the respondent to define. "Overall happiness," for example, was
based on a six-point scale with "not at all happy" on one end and "very happy"
on the other, Ms. McGurk said.

While many colleges and universities that typically are high on other rankings
appear in The Alumni Factor's list of America's top colleges, there are many
schools on the list that have rarely achieved the coveted top-10 positions in
established college rankings.

The top 10 listed in 1-10 order include Washington and Lee University, Yale
University, Princeton University, Rice University, College of the Holy Cross,
University of Notre Dame, Middlebury College, United States Naval Academy,
United States Military Academy and Stanford University.

There are also schools, which place uncharacteristically low, such as Harvard
University at 37th and Columbia University at 91st. In comparison, Harvard and
Columbia ranked 1st and 4th respectively in U.S. News & World Report's 2012
annual list.

This list of the top 177 colleges and universities in the United States provides
students and parents with a performance-based method of assessing and selecting
the best college for each student's unique needs. The Alumni Factor equally
weights all of its attributes, providing a more objective look at each college
or university, whereas other college ranking publications are based on such
subjective factors as reputation and peer assessments.

"When developing The Alumni Factor, our researchers learned that students and
parents were desperate for unbiased information to assist them in making the
best decision in identifying the right college or university.

"With the rising cost of tuition and the nation's alarmingly high student loan
debt, students and parents crave quantifiable data that measures the expected
return of investment, and the value of an education at one school versus
another," Ms. McGurk said.

Through its website, The Alumni Factor offers its members the option of creating
personalized rankings based on The Alumni Factor's key attributes. A "Match Me
to U" feature, for example, allows students to weigh attributes critical to
them, generating a personally tailored list of top college "fits."

Ms. McGurk says it's similar to an online dating match service, but this
matchmaking service allows students to customize to their life goals. In
addition to its high overall ranking, Holy Cross also placed second in the
nation in liberal arts and was one of only seven schools to rank in the top 30
of all of The Alumni Factor's 26 attribute lists, including a first-place
ranking in Spiritual Development among liberal arts colleges.

Seeking input from alumni is something that makes sense, said Ann McDermott,
director of admissions at Holy Cross. "It adds one more interesting layer to the
college search process."

Clark University and Worcester Polytechnic Institute were included among the top
177. Clark is ranked 138 overall, and WPI is ranked 118 overall and 55 among
national universities.

William J. McAvoy, vice president of Development and Alumni Relations at WPI,
said the university was pleased to be included on the Alumni Factor ranking,
which also ranked WPI 55th out of 104 national universities in the report.

"WPI students' college experience has served them very well in the job market.
WPI ranked second among universities in employment rate, ninth in immediate job
opportunities, and tenth in preparation for career success," Mr. McAvoy said.

A full list of The Alumni Factor's college rankings can be found at:
www.alumnifactor.com.

New faculty at Anna Maria College

Anna Maria College appointed full-time faculty members in a variety of
disciplines: Patricia Bartzak, assistant professor of nursing; Luke Buffenmyer,
assistant professor of graphic design; Arne Christensen, assistant professor of
biology and health sciences; David Daniels, assistant professor and director of
the Fire Science Programs; Hamid Kusha, Ph.D., associate professor of criminal
justice; Kyle Thomsen, assistant professor of philosophy; Michael Lombardo,
assistant professor of theology; Andrea Wallen, associate professor of nursing;
Theodora Welch, assistant professor of business.

Presidential Awards at Assumption

Assumption College will convey two 2012 Presidential Awards on Sept. 20 during
their convocation ceremony. Joseph Foley, associate professor of business
studies, is the recipient of the Presidential Award for Excellence in Service;
The Rev. Donat Lamothe, A.A., professor of art, is the recipient of the
Presidential Award for Excellence in Contribution to the Mission.

Mount Wachusett welcomes new personnel

Mount Wachusett Community College's Division of Academic Affairs welcomed the
following: Kara Roche, faculty, English department; Aliza Miller, faculty, math
department; Emily Cabrera, faculty, nursing department; Cheryl Ann Wilson, chair
of the Clinical Laboratory Science program; Gary Ackerman, director of the
Center for Teaching and Learning; and Liza Smith, assistant director of
advising.

WSU presidential inauguration

Barry M. Maloney will be sworn in as the 11th Worcester State University
president Friday. The inauguration ceremony will begin at 2 p.m. in the Sullivan
Auditorium. The keynote address will be delivered by Frederick W. Woodward, who
served as Westfield State University's president from 1997 to 2004.

The inauguration will be preceded by a series of faculty lectures and the
Worcester State University Presidential Lecture featuring National Geographic
underwater photographer and author Brian Skerry, WSU class of 1984, who will
talk about his latest book, "Ocean Soul," at 4 p.m. on Thursday in the Helen G.
Shaughnessy Administration Building Fuller Theater.

In addition, Worcester Art Museum Director Matthias Waschek will deliver the
talk, "University and the Museum: A Dynamic partnership," at 2 p.m. on Wednesday
in the Ghosh Science and Technology Center Auditorium.

A full schedule of event details can be found on the inauguration website.
www.worcester.edu/inauguration.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A new college ranking system has given College of the Holy Cross an
overall rank of fifth in the nation based on survey questions its alumni
answered without being aware that the tally of their responses would be used to
rank their alma mater. And that makes it objective, according to Monica McGurk,
CEO and executive editor of The Alumni Factor. "We used a number of different
channels to get people to take the survey, but it was never identified as a
college ranking survey," she said.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Jacksonville Daily Progress (Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            November 9, 2012 Friday

JC Jaguar tennis squad earns national ranking

BYLINE: Jay Neal, Jacksonville Daily Progress, Texas

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 347 words


Nov. 09--Despite having just completed its first fall season in school history,
the Jacksonville College men's tennis team was awarded a No. 25 ranking in the
Intercollegiate Tennis Association ( ITA) National Junior College Poll, which
was released on Thursday.

The Jaguars finished the fall season with a perfect 3-0 record in dual match
play.

"For a brand new program to achieve a national ranking in its first year of play
is a very rewarding thing," Jacksonville College head tennis coach Kenneth
Michaud said. "We did go 3-0 in the fall, but we really haven't proven anything,
but it is a real eye opener to just be included on a list with the best of the
best in the world of men's junior college tennis."

Michaud said that the keys to his unit's early success has been the fine
character of the young men that have joined the joined the team.

"This ranking is a testament to our men who decided to sign on with our
brand-new program," he said. "It's a reward of sort for all of their hard work
and for buying into the program and what we are trying to do here at
Jacksonville College."

Collin College (formally Collin County Community College in Plano) occupied the
top spot in the poll, followed by Tyler Junior College, Georgia Perimeter,
Vincennes (Ind.) University and Seminole (Okla.) State.

Completing the top 10 were, Cowley (Kan.) County, Laredo Community College,
Johnson (Kan.) County, ABAC and Temple College.

Michaud said that he expects his recruiting efforts to get a significant boost
from the ranking.

"I think when we go into the homes of the kids that we are recruiting and show
them that we have already begun to receive national recognition after just one
semester, people will see that we are serious about tennis at Jacksonville
College and that our program is already relevant nationally," he said. "This
could turn out to be a big selling point for our program."

___ (c)2012 the Jacksonville Daily Progress (Jacksonville, Texas) Visit the
Jacksonville Daily Progress (Jacksonville, Texas) at
www.jacksonvilleprogress.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121109-JD-JC-Jaguar-tennis-squad-earns-national-ranking-1109-20121109

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JD


                   Copyright 2012 Jacksonville Daily Progress

                              240 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                             August 22, 2008 Friday
                                  Main Edition

Colleges hardly move in rankings;
Magazine's survey: Emory, Tech, UGA move little, Spelman still No. 1 in its
category.

BYLINE: ANDREA JONES; Staff

SECTION: METRO NEWS; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 504 words


The U.S. News & World Report college rankings will hit the newsstands Monday and
many of Georgia's colleges --- drum roll, please --- barely moved at all.

The annual rankings, loved by students and parents and loathed by college
presidents, judge schools on factors from reputation and student retention to
faculty resources and alumni giving.

In the new edition, Emory ranked 18th among national universities, both public
and private, tying with The University of Notre Dame and Vanderbilt, a spot
below where it ranked last year.

Among top public universities, Georgia Tech held on to its No. 7 spot, tying
with the University of California San Diego and the University of Wisconsin. UGA
stayed in the top 20, tying in that position with the University of Pittsburgh.

Spelman College was again ranked the top historically black institution in the
nation. It's the second year of that category and the second time Spelman made
No. 1.

"We're always delighted to be recognized for the good work that we do," said
Spelman President Beverly Tatum. But she was quick to say that students
shouldn't use rankings to base decisions on where to go to school.

"We recogize that there's a certain amount of superficiality represented in the
system --- they don't really describe what happens on a day-to-day basis."

Morehouse ranked No. 3 in that category.

The rankings rankle college administrators, who have long complained about the
methodology.

In 2007, the president of Stanford University made headlines for openly
criticizing the rankings in a letter to the editor of U.S. News.

"I am extremely skeptical that the quality of a university --- any more than the
quality of a magazine --- can be measured statistically. However, even if it
can, the producers of the U.S. News rankings remain far from discovering the
method," Gerhard Casper wrote.

Some schools have stopped participating altogether. Others, like Clemson
University in South Carolina, have made clawing their way up the rankings a top
priority. Clemson President James Barker set a goal of breaking into the top 20
public institutions when he took office in 2000, a plan that was approved by the
board of trustees. After an agressive campaign to increase research, alumni
giving and make other improvements on campus, Clemson climbed several spots and
is now ranked 22nd, just behind UGA.

In "Schools to Watch," a new ranking this year, Agnes Scott College was ranked
ninth among liberal arts colleges considered "tops for innovation." Agnes Scott
also climbed from 30th to 16th in "Great Schools, Great Prices," ranking as the
best college value in the Southeast.

Emory also earned high marks for value and faculty compensation.

"While rankings are one way of evaluating institutional success, the true
measure of a university is revealed in the work of its faculty, staff and
students," Emory Provost Earl Lewis said in a statement. "Emory is committed to
combining its strengths and resources to make a lasting impact on the Atlanta
community, higher education and the world."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2008 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                              241 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             October 3, 2016 Monday

Texas: Rice fares well in new rankings

LENGTH: 547  words

DATELINE: New York



 Austin: University of Rice, The State of Texas  has issued the following news
release:



   Rice University is No. 18 in the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) and Times Higher
Education's (THE) inaugural ranking of U.S. colleges. That's just one of several
recently announced rankings in which Rice has fared well.





 View of cloisters with rankings logos printed on the rightThe WSJ/THE rankings
are based on postgraduation outcomes, such as career salary and amount of
student loan debt; resources spent on academics, including the amount spent on
instruction and academic services; student engagement, as reflected in students'
responses to surveys about students' experience with their professors and
whether they were pushed to think critically; and the racial, ethnic,
socio-economic and international diversity of the learning environment.



 Rice is No. 5 on the WSJ/THE's list of Top Schools for Resources, which is
based on academic spending, student-faculty ratios and research output.



 Rice News has already reported that Rice moved up to No. 15 in the U.S. News &
World Report rankings, up to No. 72 in the Academic Ranking of World
Universities and up to No. 87 in the Times Higher Education World University
Rankings, and that Rice is No. 1 for happiest students and lots of race/class
interaction in the Princeton Review's 2017 edition of "The Best 381 Colleges."



 Below are a few more recent rankings.



 In the QS World University Rankings for 2016-2017, Rice moved up to No. 90 from
No. 106 last year. These rankings factor in academic reputation, employer
reputation, student-to-faculty ratio, research citations per faculty member and
proportion of international faculty members and students.



 In the Niche 2016 Best Colleges Ranking, Rice is No. 5, same as last year.
Niche's comprehensive assessment of more than 1,100 U.S. colleges incorporates
millions of student reviews and key statistics about the academics, students,
campus, local area, professors, dorms, food and athletics along with alumni data
on earnings, employment, student loan debt and student surveys of how prepared
they feel for life after college.



 Rice is No. 10 on Forbes' list of the 12 Best STEM Colleges for International
Students. Among the criteria are quality of education; popularity of science,
technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) majors; total percentage of
international students; percentage of increase of international students; and
graduation rate for international students.



 Rice is tied with Colgate University for No. 24 on the 2016-2017 PayScale
College Salary Report. To determine the colleges where students with a
bachelor's degree earn the most money a decade or more into their career,
PayScale reviewed the starting and mid-career salaries for more than a million
college grads who completed its employee survey.



 Rice is on the greatist.com 's 2016 list of the 26 Healthiest Colleges in the
U.S. The numbered list reflects geography rather than any particular rank order
and is based on universities' responses to a questionnaire about dining
services, fitness facilities, student mental and sexual health care, and
policies and education about alcohol use.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                          September 12, 2012 Wednesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

EASY 'A's Harvard, Princeton still top list

BYLINE: BY BEN CHAPMAN NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 456 words


IT'S THE old college tie - Harvard University and Princeton University seized
the top spot in U.S. News & World Report's Best College Rankings 2013 for
National Universities.

Yale finished third, while the University of Chicago tied for fourth with
Columbia University - which still earned bragging rights as the top spot for
academic excellence among schools in New York State.

The magazine's prestigious annual rankings are based on 16 separate ranking
indicators including SAT scores, academic reputation, class sizes and other
factors.

"Schools are measured in terms of academic quality, not side issues like
partying or sports or activities," said director of data research Bob Morse.

Nearly 1,400 colleges were ranked in this year's academic report, and most of
the schools held the same positions as the year before.

The remaining Ivy League schools placed well in the rankings, including
University of Pennsylvania (ranked eighth), Dartmouth (10th) and Cornell
University and Brown University (tied for 15th).

Williams College took top honors in the 2013 ranking of National Liberal Arts
Colleges, holding on to the No. 1 spot for the second year running.

Among liberal arts schools, Vassar College jumped four spots to break into the
top 10.

Vassar's "significant" jump was based in part on gains in the school's academic
reputation as measured by the survey, said Morse.

Of the Empire State universities in the 2013 national universities rankings,
Columbia and Cornell were followed by New York University and University of
Rochester for the top four slots.

The guidebook with the full national rankings will hit newsstands Sept. 18 but
can be ordered online today from U.S. News' website, USNews.com.

Visit usnews.com/college for full rankings.

bchapman@nydailynews.com

Graphic: U.S News & World Report

Top 10 National Universities

NATIONAL RANK

1 Harvard - University

1 Princeton - University

3 Yale University

4 Columbia - University

4 University of Chicago

6 Massachusetts - Institute of Technology

6 Stanford University

8 Duke University

8 University of Pennsylvania

10 California Institute - of Technology

10 Dartmouth College

Top 10 New York -Universities

SCHOOL's NATIONAL RANKING

4 Columbia University

15 Cornell University

32 New York - University

33 University - of Rochester

41 Rensselaer - Polytechnic Institute

46 Yeshiva University

58 Fordham - University

58 Syracuse University

77 SUNY College of - Environmental Science - and Forestry

89 Binghamton - University - SUNY

Top 10 New York -Liberal Arts Schools

NATIONAL RANK

10 Vassar - College

16 Hamilton - College

18 Colgate University

18 United States - Military Academy

28 Barnard - College

36 Bard College

41 Union College

43 Skidmore College

56 St. Lawrence University

60 Hobart and - William Smith Colleges

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC;LIST, Graduates of Columbia University can boast of attending
New York's top-rated college. Photo by Jennifer S. Altman Columbia University
Nationally #4 Vassar College Liberal Arts #10 NYU Nationally #32

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Daily News, L.P.

                              243 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           September 13, 2016 Tuesday

Princeton, Cal top college rankings

BYLINE: AMY HE in New York

LENGTH: 595  words


Princeton University remains the best private university in the US, according to
the latest US News & World Report college rankings, and the University of
California Berkeley -- which has a large Chinese-student presence -- is the top
public school in the US.

Ascreenshot of lists of 2017 US News Best Colleges Rankings.

Princeton University remains the best private university in the US, according to
the latest US News & World Report college rankings, and the University of
California Berkeley -- which has a large Chinese-student presence -- is the top
public school in the US.

US News released its 2017 Best Colleges rankings on Tuesday, and the top private
universities are Princeton, Harvard University, University of Chicago, Yale
University, Columbia University, Stanford University, the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Duke University, University of Pennsylvania and Johns
Hopkins University.

Of those, Columbia University has the most international students from China.

The top public universities in the country are UC Berkeley, UCLA, the University
of Virginia, the University of Michigan and the University of North Carolina.

Of the public universities, UC Berkeley and UCLA have the highest number of
Chinese international students, according to a list compiled by Foreign Policy
magazine.

Williams College in Massachusetts was selected as the best liberal arts college
for the 14th year in a row.

The list of schools, published annually and used often by prospective college
students, is based on 15 measures of academic quality, such as student
graduation and retention rates.

US News also included a list of schools with the most international students to
better help international students who are interested in studying abroad. The
list is widely consulted by Chinese students, and the media company publishes
articles in Chinese to let students and their parents understand the college
admissions process, how to work with agents, and paying for college.

"US colleges and universities are becoming increasingly global and are finding
new ways to support their international students. There is an influx of Chinese
students looking to study in the US, and US News wants them to have easy access
to trusted information that caters to their unique needs and helps them find the
right college," said Anita Narayan, managing editor of education at US News.

"For both international and US students, a college choice can profoundly affect
career opportunities, financial well-being and quality of life. The US News
rankings can help prospective students navigate through the process of finding
the right college, and can provide security and set expectations for their
investments," she said to China Daily.

Despite the popularity of the rankings list, it also has faced criticism from
education experts who say that the way US News ranks the colleges is
inconsistent year to year, making it hard to gauge why a certain college
outranks another.

Critics, such as the non-profit Education Conservancy, say that the list implies
a "false precision and authority that is not warranted by the data US News uses"
and overweighs a university's prestige.

The education organization said in a 2007 letter to college presidents
protesting the ranking that the list reflects little to nothing about students'
abilities to learn at the universities.

There also have been examples of colleges trying to game the system in order to
earn a higher ranking on the list, such as Claremont-McKenna College in
California, which was caught in 2012 for providing US News with false SAT
scores.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            July 20, 2011 Wednesday
                                Chennai Edition

Make public rankings of pvt engg colleges: High court

BYLINE: TIMES NEWS NETWORK

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 365 words


Chennai: The Madras high court has directed different branches of the Anna
University of Technology (AUT) to make public the academic rankings of all
affiliated self-financing engineering colleges in their region.The AUT has
branches in Chennai,Coimbatore,Trichy andTirunelveli.Justice N Paul
Vasanthakumar passed the order on a petition filed by N Ramprasanth.The
petitioner said he was a first-generation learner who completed his secondary
education in May 2011 and wanted to join an engineering course.He was called for
counselling on July 17 but the date was postponed.His grievance was that the
rankings of self-financing colleges had not been disclosed till date.Due to
this,candidates were unable to find out which college had a good track record in
academics and so,could not choose where to enroll depending on the ranking and
availability of seats.While counsel for the university submitted that there was
no statutory obligation to announcethe academic rankings of colleges,the
advocate appearing for the petitioner said that though the exact rankings in
termsof allthe activities,including infrastructure,hostel,transport
facilities,couldn't be assessed,the universities would definitely have the
academic performance of each college and so,could disclose their academic
rankings on their website.Terming the demand reasonable,Justice Paul
Vasanthakumar said the university was bound to disclose the academic ranking of
affiliated colleges to promote students' interests,particularly when therewere
morethan 500 engineering colleges in the state.Since the universities conducted
examinations and would have all the records relating to academic
performance,thejudgesaidthatifthese records were not disclosed,the students
would not know which colleges continued to maintain excellence.The petitioner
wasdirected to make a representation before the controller of examinations and
registrar of the respective universities within two days.The appropriate
authorities were directed to publish the academic rankings of affiliated
colleges in their region,inform the same to the petitioner and make it public
within a week of receiving a copy of the representation from the petitioner.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 23, 2010 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Local colleges gain ground in U.S. News rankings

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 458 words


An Aug. 17 excerpt from  Daniel de Vise's  blog on the business behind higher
education.

The 2011 U.S. News & World Report college rankings came out at midnight Tuesday,
and the news is mostly good for universities in the Washington region.

Climbing even a single place in the preeminent rankings is an accomplishment in
the top 50 spots. Several area institutions gained at least that much ground.

There's little movement at the top of the rankings. If there's a national
headline, it may be that Columbia University displaced MIT as the fourth-ranked
national university. Harvard, Princeton and Yale rank 1-2-3, same as last year.

Johns Hopkins University moved from 14th on last year's list to 13th in the
ranking of top national universities, the most prestigious of the many U.S. News
tabulations.

Georgetown University ascended from 23rd last year to 21st.

The University of Virginia, tied with UCLA for 24th place a year ago, claims the
25th spot on the national university rankings. They are again the nation's
top-ranked public universities, along with Berkeley.

The College of William and Mary ranks 31st, up from 33rd.

Proceeding to page two of the rankings, we have George Washington University, up
from 53rd last year to 51st.

The University of Maryland suffered a small retreat, dropping from 53rd in last
year's rankings to 56th, where it is tied with several other schools.

Virginia Tech ranks 69th, up from 71st a year ago.

American University captured the 79th spot, up five places from last year's 84th
rank. It is the last local institution ranked in the top 100.

Howard University, which is tied for 104th with several schools and dropped from
96th last year, remains second on the list of historically black colleges and
universities.

In the national ranking of liberal arts colleges, Washington and Lee University
remains at 14th and is the highest mid-Atlantic school listed.

The U.S. Naval Academy climbed three spots to 16th.

The University of Richmond sits at 32, down from 30th last year.

The Virginia Military Institute ranks 62nd, same as last year. St. Mary's
College of Maryland climbed four spots to 88th.

readers respond

wdc55 wrote: "Climbing even a single place in the preeminent college rankings is
an accomplishment in the top 50 spots." Really? This statement is symptomatic of
the dangers of attaching too much urgency or meaning to these rankings. While I
admittedly was poring through them seconds after their release, I doubt the
methodology that drives these rankings is so precise that there is measurable
difference in true quality between school #50 and school #51. The U.S. News
rankings constitute one data source that may be helpful in assessing a school's
match to a particular student. Nothing more, nothing less.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                             June 24, 2008 Tuesday

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 672 words


The obsession of many high school students and their parents about getting into
a prestigious college or university is part of the social scene of our time. So
is the experience of parents going deep into hock to finance sending a son or
daughter off to Ivy U. or the flagship campus of the state university system.

Sometimes both the student and the parent end up with big debts from financing a
degree from some prestige institution. Yet these are the kinds of institutions
that many have their hearts set on.

Media hype adds to the pressure to go where the prestige is. A key role is often
played by the various annual rankings of colleges and universities, especially
the rankings by U.S. News & World Report. These rankings typically measure all
sorts of inputs but not outputs.

The official academic accrediting agencies do the same thing. They measure how
much money is spent on this or that, how many professors have tenure and other
kinds of inputs. What they don't measure is the output what kind of education
the students end up with.

A new think tank in Washington is trying to shift the emphasis from inputs to
outputs. The Center for College Affordability and Productivity is headed by
Richard Vedder, who gives the U.S. News rankings a grade of D. Measuring the
inputs, he says, is "roughly equivalent to evaluating a chef based on the
ingredients he or she uses."

His approach is to "review the meal" - that is, the outcome of the education
itself.

The CCAP study uses several measures of educational output, including the
proportion of a college's graduates who win awards like the Rhodes Scholarships
or who end up listed in "Who's Who in America," as well as the ratings that
students give the professors who teach them.

Vedder admits that these are "imperfect" measures of a college's educational
output, but at least they are measures of output instead of input.

Some academic institutions come out at or near the top by either input or output
criteria, but there were some large changes in rankings as well.

Among national universities, the top three are the same - but in different order
whether ranked by U.S. News or by the Center for College Affordability and
Productivity. They are Harvard, Yale and Princeton, according to Vedder's think
tank, and Princeton, Harvard and Yale in the U.S. News rankings.

Among the liberal arts colleges, however, there were some big changes. Although
Williams and Amherst were the top two in both rankings, Washington & Lee moved
up from 15th to 6th when ranked by Vedder's group and Barnard climbed from 30th
to 8th.

Whitman College, which was ranked 37th by U.S. News on the basis of the
college's inputs, jumped to 9th when evaluated on its output by Vedder and
company. Wabash College jumped from 52nd to 10th. West Point rose from 22nd to
7th.

One of my own favorite measures of output - the percentage of a college's
graduates who go on to get Ph.D.s - was not used by either set of evaluations.

Small colleges dominate the top 10 in sending their alumni on to get doctorates.
Grinnell College, which was not among the top 10 on either the U.S. News list or
on Vedder's list, sends a higher percentage of its graduates on to get Ph.D.s
than does either Harvard or Yale.

No given criterion tells the whole story. In fact, the whole idea of ranking
colleges and universities is open to question.

To someone who is making a decision where to apply, what matters is what is the
best institution for that particular individual, which may not be best - or even
advisable-for that applicant's brother or sister.

"Choosing the Right College" is by far the best of the college guides, partly
because it does not give rankings, but more because it goes into the many
factors that matter - and which matter differently for different people.

What Vedder's study does is provide yet another reason for parents and students
not to obsess over big-name schools or their rankings - or to go deep into hock
over them.

(Thomas Sowell is an economist and teacher. His syndicated column appears
Tuesdays.)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2008 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                             August 20, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Four colleges receive `Best' rankings;
Magazine lists 5 other schools

BYLINE: TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 283 words


U.S. News & World Report released its annual college rankings last week, and
several local schools were included in the magazine's "America's Best Colleges
2008."

The rankings sort colleges by their mission and sometimes by their region and
rank them within those categories based on academic quality. The top 50 percent
of schools in each category were ranked numerically. The next 25 percent of
schools fell into the third tier classification while the bottom 25 percent of
schools were relegated to the fourth tier. Third and fourth tier colleges did
not receive numerical rankings.

In the category of national universities, Worcester Polytechnic Institute ranked
62nd, and Clark University ranked 91st. Princeton University in New Jersey
ranked first.

In the category of liberal arts colleges, the College of the Holy Cross ranked
33rd, and Atlantic Union College in Lancaster came in the fourth tier. Williams
College in Williamstown ranked first.

In the category of universities - master's - North, Assumption College ranked
28th, Fitchburg State College came in on the third tier, and Anna Maria College
in Paxton came in on the fourth. Villanova University in Pennsylvania ranked
first.

In the category of baccalaureate colleges (North), Becker College and Worcester
State College came in on the fourth tier. Cooper Union in New York ranked first.

Not all schools are ranked. Those not ranked include specialized schools,
schools that do not use the SAT or ACT in admission decisions, schools that did
not receive enough responses on the magazine's peer assessment survey, those
with fewer than 200 students, those where a large proportion of students are
nontraditional and for-profit universities.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Inside Bay Area (California)

                             August 20, 2007 Monday

College rankings rankle, but their influence persists

BYLINE: By Matt Krupnick, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Tribune; Times-Star

LENGTH: 371 words


It's the toughest time of the year for Lloyd Thacker to stand in a supermarket
line.

With U.S. News & World Report's annual college rankings hitting news racks
Monday -- the rankings are available online today -- Thacker will be spending a
lot of time looking at the publication he has dedicated himself to resisting.

Thacker, who directs the Oregon-based Education Conservancy, has led the growing
nationwide opposition to the 24-year-old U.S. News rankings, which he sees as
the epitome of commercialized higher education. Colleges should not be ranked
based on a uniform scale, he said.

"It has distorted and skewed how (college) admissions are perceived," said
Thacker, a former college counselor. "Their impact far exceeds their educational
relevance."

As of Thursday, Thacker had gathered signatures from more than 60 college
presidents who have vowed to stop completing a major portion of the magazine's
annual survey, which analyzes 1,400 schools across the United States. The
disputed section, which accounts for a quarter of a school's score, rates a
college's reputation among its peers.

Among the institutions refusing to rate their competitors' reputations are St.
Mary's College in Moraga and San Francisco State University.

In their hunger for higher rankings, some colleges have increased the number of
scholarships for top-performing students, Thacker said. That system skews
colleges toward more affluent students, while hurting low-income students who
tend to have lower test scores.

Although college administrators have long grumbled at the popularity and effects
of the U.S. News rankings, school leaders have organized in opposition more than
in years past. Thacker's group is planning a September meeting at Yale
University to discuss alternative ranking systems.

Nevertheless, U.S. News remains a major player in the world of college choice.
At least 97 percent of the schools that participated in this year's U.S. News
rankings plan to continue to do so, according to a survey of more than 300
admissions officers released this week by Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions.

With thousands of colleges and universities available to students, the magazine
is merely providing people a research tool, said U.S. News Editor

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 10, 2001, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Ranking lacks credibility

BYLINE: Joanne V. Creighton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 398 words

It is a sorry commentary on educational leadership if colleges manipulate data
about their institutions in an effort to try to move up in rankings manufactured
every year by U.S. News & World Report, although the jury is still out about how
widespread these practices are. What is clear is the deeply flawed nature of the
rankings themselves.

Put simply, U.S. News' numbers fail to add up. Recently, a former director of
data research at U.S. News joined the increasingly vocal critics of the
wrongheaded methodology and commercial motives of the U.S. News rankings. An
internal study commissioned by the magazine in 1997 found, according to The
Washington Monthly, that "the weights used to combine various measures into an
overall rating lack any defensible empirical or theoretical basis." Further,
U.S. News focuses almost exclusively on input measures -- including
institutional wealth, faculty salaries and acceptance rates -- and almost
entirely ignores the key question in evaluating a college: how well it teaches
its students.


Leaders in higher education must continue to speak out against a ranking system
that we know lacks credibility and validity. Not only should we refuse to give
lip service to this specious and oversimplified labeling of our institutions, we
should resist labeling our students with numbers, too. There are insidious
parallels between the bogus ranking of colleges and universities by U.S. News
and the ranking of students by their SAT scores.

Last year, Mount Holyoke College made submission of the SAT score optional for
applicants because it fails to measure many skills and talents -- including
intellectual curiosity, motivation and leadership -- that we value. Our decision
was hailed by many, but a few skeptics suggested that it must be an effort to
boost our average SAT score and thus our ranking among leading colleges.

Nothing could be further from the truth. Indeed, we have de-emphasized the SAT
because we seek a truer assessment of a student's potential. So, too, do college
rankings deserve such de-emphasis, if not outright contempt.

In short, the number is up for both the SAT and U.S. News' ranking game.

Joanne V. Creighton is president of Mount Holyoke College in South Hadley, Mass.


Magazine survey fails to measure how well schools teach students.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              250 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                            August 23, 2008 Saturday

Williams, Amherst share top-school ranking

BYLINE: By Tony Dobrowolski, Berkshire Eagle Staff

SECTION: TOP STORY

LENGTH: 669 words


WILLIAMSTOWN -- Who's number one? Well, both Williams and Amherst are.

U.S. News & World Report has released its 2009 rankings of the country's best
liberal arts colleges, and Williams and Amherst are tied for the top spot. The
magazine will be on newstands Monday.

The traditional rivals have both topped the magazine's rankings several times in
the past, but this is the first time that they have been ranked number one at
the same time, according to Williams College spokesman James Kolesar. According
to Kolesar, this is the sixth straight year Williams has finished first in the
U.S. News & World Report rankings, and has been ranked first 10 times since the
rankings began in 1983. Williams has never ranked lower than third.

Amherst has topped the U.S. News & World Report rankings 10 times since their
inception, according to Wikipedia, the online encyclopedia. Amherst also shared
the top spot with Swarthmore in 2001, according to Kolesar. Swarthmore is third
this year.

"It's nice to be considered among the top schools in the country," Kolesar said.

Williams and Amherst have a unique history that accentuates their rivalry.
Founded in 1793, Williams was in serious financial trouble by 1815. Six years
later, then Williams President Zephaniah Swift Moore, who had taken the job
believing the college would move east, took 15 students with him to the Pioneer
Valley where he became Amherst's first president when the college was founded in
1821, according to Wikipedia.

The two schools compete in almost everything, but the rivalry is most noticeable
in athletics. At 122 games, the Williams-Amherst football rivalry is the
country's fourth-longest. The two schools also played the first intercollegiate
baseball game in Pittsfield in 1859.

Their history may be colorful and intertwined, but Kolesar said Williams doesn't
take the magazine's rankings seriously.

Results not publicized

"It is what it is," Kolesar said. "It's nothing more than that."

According to Amherst College Director of Media Relations Caroline Jenkins Hanna,
both schools have agreed to not publicize any college rankings on principle.

They are not the only colleges that take that point of view.

Last year, the presidents of 20 small elite liberal arts colleges across the
country, including Williams and Amherst, signed a statement in which they
committed not to mention U.S. News or similar rankings in any of their new
publications, "since such lists mislead the public into thinking that the
complexities of higher education can be reduced to one number."

"While we are always pleased when Amherst's excellent academics, faculty, and
programs are recognized, we feel that there is no way to measure educational
quality," said Amherst College President Anthony W. Marx in a written statement.
"We hope that students will see a long list of great colleges in the U.S. and
realize that there are many wonderful options."

Williams and Amherst both received a score of 100 in the magazine's rankings,
three points higher than Swarthmore, and seven points more than fourth-place
Wellesley College.

Representatives of U.S. News & World Report could not be reached for comment
yesterday, but according to information on the magazine's Web site, the ranking
system rests on two pillars: quantitative measures that education experts have
proposed as reliable indicators of academic quality, and U.S. News & World
Report's nonpartisan view of what matters in education.

Ranked by mission

Schools are first categorized by their mission, which is derived from a report
that classifies all accredited degree-granting colleges and universities in the
United States, or by their region. Next, the magazine gathers data from each
college for up to 15 indicators of academic excellence.

Each factor is assigned a weight that reflects the magazine's judgment regarding
how each measure matters. Finally, the colleges are ranked against their peers,
based on their composite weighted score.

To reach Tony Dobrowolski: TDobrowolski@berkshireeagle.com (413) 496-6224

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2008 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 995 DOCUMENTS


              The Times and Democrat (Orangeburg, South Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 2, 2010 Tuesday

Forbes.com ranks Claflin University for affordability

BYLINE: The Times and Democrat, Orangeburg, S.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 607 words


Feb. 2--Claflin University in Orangeburg is in the top one-third percent of
colleges and universities nationwide for affordability, Forbes announced in its
ranking of Best College Buys.

According to Forbes.com's Center for College Affordability and Productivity, the
goal of the 2009 ranking was to research where students can get the most quality
for each tuition dollar spent, especially for those shopping on a budget. For
many students today, the price of a school is as important a factor in deciding
where to go as its quality.

The Best Buy Ranking listed the top colleges and universities in the nation from
a pool of 600 institutions. Claflin ranked number 31, making it the
second-highest ranked school in South Carolina, behind The Citadel (16) and the
top-ranked historically black college or university (HBCU). Fisk was the only
other HBCU ranked at number 80.

"It is more crucial now than ever to provide students with an affordable
education," Claflin President Dr. Henry N. Tisdale said. "At Claflin, we are
very cognizant of the hardships students face in tough economic times, and we do
as much as we can to ensure that the economic burden doesn't overshadow
educational opportunities. That's why our board voted not to increase student
tuition this year. We want to give our students every opportunity to be
successful, and we thank Forbes.com for recognizing our efforts."

The nation ranking is the second Claflin has received for affordability.
Consumers Digest cited Claflin third for best value among top private colleges
and universities nationally in 2007.

To produce the ranking, Forbes.com divided each school's overall quality score
by its average net (after allowance for scholarship grants) tuition rate from
the 2003-2004 to 2006-2007 academic years.

The quality score is calculated by summing each school's score with respect to
Who's Who in America citations, salary data from PayScale.com, course
evaluations from RateMyProfessor.com, the receipt of student and faculty
nationally competitive awards, and the graduation rate variables used in the
Best College rankings. All schools with an actual four-year graduation rate
lower than 25 percent are excluded from the "Best Buy Ranking."

"We believe that to be considered a 'high value' investment, there must be a
reasonable expectation of completing one's degree within the normal time
period," according to Forbes.com.

Later in August, Claflin earned the number 12 spot among Baccalaureate Colleges
in the South and the eighth spot among the nation's Historically Black Colleges
and Universities in the 2010 edition of America's Best Colleges by U.S. News
Media Group.

"We are proud to be ranked One of America's Best College by U.S.News and World
Report for the 12th consecutive year," Tisdale said. "The criteria used in
calculating these rankings are all components we strive to excel in here at
Claflin -- graduation and retention rates, student selectivity and financial
resources. And, once again, we have been recognized for having one of the
highest alumni giving rates among southern baccalaureate colleges and the
highest rate among HBCUs. We thank U.S.News and World Report for continuing to
recognize our efforts."

To see more of The Times and Democrat, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.timesanddemocrat.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Times and Democrat,
Orangeburg, S.C. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100202-GG-UNIV-AFFORD-RANKING-20100202

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GG


                     Copyright 2010 The Times and Democrat

                              252 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Blade (Toledo, Ohio)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           September 8, 2015 Tuesday

Terra State at bottom of ranking

BYLINE: Vanessa McCray, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 505 words


Sept. 08--A personal finance website's ranking of 670 community colleges
relegated Terra State Community College to the bottom of the list.

WalletHub recently released a report that placed the Fremont college in last
place, but the rankings only compared 670 of the more than 1,100 community
colleges in the United States.

WalletHub spokesman Diana Popa said the site only compared the colleges for
which it could "find complete data." Among the schools missing from the list is
Owens Community College.

Terra fared poorly in the four categories the report reviewed: cost and
financing, classroom experience, education outcomes, and career outcomes.

The report used information gleaned from the University of Texas at Austin's
Community College Survey of Student Engagement, which Terra State students are
given the opportunity to take every other year, most recently in spring of 2014.

Evelyn Waiwaiole, director for the Center for Community College Student
Engagement in Austin, decried the WalletHub rankings, saying the article
"includes multiple errors of fact and misuses of survey data."

Terra spokesman Mary McCue said the college's low score caught her off guard.

"It was misleading and lacked information necessary to make it a legitimate
ranking," she said.

She said Terra has been making improvements based on student expectations,
citing a move to add more class sections during the most in-demand times of day
and offering more advising and tutoring resources.

She also pointed to a new "flat-rate tuition program" that charges full-time
students $2,142 per semester if they take anywhere from 12 to 15 credits.

Terra's  tuition rate per credit hour is $179 this fall, up from $148 per credit
hour in fall of 2014.

Beyond tuition costs, other factors the report considered were retention and
graduation rates.

According to rates provided by Terra, 5 percent of students who entered in 2012
graduated within two years; 11 percent graduated in three years.

Nearly 18 percent of those who entered Terra in 2009 graduated within six years.

The college, like other area higher education institutions, has experienced an
enrollment drop in recent years. The full-time student headcount went from 1,253
in fall of 2012 to 776 currently enrolled.

Ms. McCue said total enrollment at this point in the semester has increased
compared to the same time last year, up from 2,572 students in 2014 to 2,684
students as of Friday.

Other area colleges and their WalletHub ranking score include: Northwest State
Community College in Archbold at 519, Rhodes State College in Lima at 573, and
Monroe County Community College at 616.

The website also ranked the strength of each state's community college system,
with Mississippi topping the list. Michigan bested Ohio slightly, coming in at
38 to the Buckeye State's No. 40 ranking.

Contact Vanessa McCray at: vmccray@theblade.com or 419-724-6065, or on Twitter
@vanmccray.

___ (c)2015 The Blade (Toledo, Ohio) Visit The Blade (Toledo, Ohio) at
www.toledoblade.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150908-TO-Terra-State-at-bottom-of-ranking-0908-20150908

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TO


                            Copyright 2015 The Blade

                              253 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                    September 8, 1995, Friday, ALL EDITIONS

Commitment to teaching gets Berry high ranking

BYLINE: Mara Rose Williams; STAFF WRITER

SECTION: STATE NEWS, Pg. 2H

LENGTH: 293 words


Berry College got high marks in the 1996 U.S. News & World Report's annual
ranking of colleges and universities.

The small private school in Rome, Ga., ranked second best in regional liberal
arts colleges in the South. Berry also topped a new category as the best
regional college in the South based on its commitment to teaching.

The rankings confirm "what others have known for quite awhile - that the Berry
faculty, staff and students are top caliber," said Gloria Shatto, Berry's
president. She attributed the school's excellence to "high entrance standards,
challenging curriculum and a strong student work opportunity program."

Mercer University in Macon was 12th among the best regional universities in the
South.

In other new categories, the University of Georgia and Georgia Tech fared well.
UGA's real estate department ranked fifth in best business school departments,
and Georgia Tech ranked third in top engineering schools.

According to the magazine, the top 10 universities, in order, are: Harvard,
Princeton, Yale, Stanford, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Duke,
California Institute of Technology, Dartmouth, Brown and Johns Hopkins.

The influential college ranking survey, however, has come under fire by The Wall
Street Journal for basing its standings on what the newspaper calls
"questionable data." Controversy over the rankings developed after reports this
year said colleges fudged their data to inflate their standings in order to
attract students.

Georgia's other rankings are:

> Emory University, 13th among top teaching schools, 21st among best business
programs.

> Spelman College, 21st among top liberal arts colleges.
> Georgia Tech, 25th among best business programs. UGA was 31st.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1995 The Atlanta Constitution

                              254 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Raffles tops again, but other colleges also doing better

                                December 3, 1994


IT HAS become almost a cliche -Raffles Junior College is tops (see chart below).

With a mean subject grade (MSG) of 1.6 and percentage 3A pass rate of 99, it has
once again left the others behind in the Which JC?  rankings.

Hot on its heel is Hwa Chong Junior College. It was pipped by Raffles JC to the
top spot by a mere 0.2 point, sharing the same percentage 3A pass rate.

But it relegated Raffles JC to No 2 in the Arts/Commerce rankings, and jumped
from last year's fifth to second in the Science stream.

Overall, other than the No 1 spot, the other top five positions remain the
domain of established colleges such as Victoria, Temasek and National junior
colleges.

The middle and lower bands of the rankings, however, make for more interesting
study.

Anderson Junior College, as expected, leads the pack at sixth position, with
Anglo-Chinese Junior College remaining at seventh.

St Andrew's Junior College climbs two spots to No 8, while Tampines Junior
College drops from ninth to 11th. Jurong (12th), Yishun (13th) and Serangoon
(14th) remain at the bottom end of the ladder.

But just looking at the overall rankings does not tell the whole story, as far
as the less established JCs are concerned.  Significantly, each of them did
better than last year.

For example, Tampines JC improved its percentage 3As (80 to 85 per cent) while
maintaining its MSG at 3.1.

Besides the overall rankings table, there are the two rankings charts for the
Science and Arts/Commerce streams (see charts 1 and 2).

They show how strong a college may be in a particular stream. For instance, it
shows that Hwa Chong JC has an edge over Raffles JC in the Arts/Commerce stream.

The value-added (VA) charts (see charts 3 to 5) should also be read with the
rankings charts. They reflect how effective a JC is in helping its students do
better.

For example, a college is said to be high on VA if it takes in an average
O-level student and helps him produce above-average results.

So, while Serangoon JC may be ranked last, its high VA ranking puts it in the
company of JCs such as Anderson, Temasek and Victoria.

There is also the JC Fitness Index (see chart 6). This ranks the students'
fitness according to their performance in the National Physical Fitness Test
(Napfa) and the percentage of overweight students.

The Napfa test, designed by the Singapore Sports Council, consists of six
exercises which students must complete within a certain time.  The overweight
factor is based on the acceptable weight and height range given by the School
Health Service.

This index should not be ignored, as physical fitness has been shown to affect
academic performance.


SECTION: Life; Which JC? -The Straits Times Guide to Junior Colleges; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 654 words

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1994 The Straits Times Press Limited

                              255 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            March 12, 2015 Thursday

Kansas State University's education, engineering, veterinary medicine graduate
programs named among the nation's best

LENGTH: 429  words

DATELINE: Manhattan


Kansas State University has issued the following news release:

Kansas State University's graduate programs in the College of Engineering,
College of Education and College of Veterinary Medicine are being recognized as
among the best in the nation.

According to the U.S. News & World Report Best Graduate School rankings for
2016, the university's College of Education is No. 88, up from No. 92 in 2015;
College of Engineering is No. 94, up from No. 99 in 2015; and College of
Veterinary Medicine is No. 14, up from No. 19 in 2015.

"The U.S. News & World Report rankings confirm that the College of Education,
College of Engineering and College of Veterinary Medicine have graduate programs
that are respected by our peers and that our graduates are esteemed in their
respective fields," said Kansas State University President Kirk Schulz. "These
graduate programs advance a culture of excellence and help the university move
forward with our goal to become a Top 50 public research university by year
2025."

The rankings are calculated through national surveys, student selectivity,
faculty resources and the institutions' research activity.

"The upward movement in the rankings affirms the quality of the graduate
programming offered by the K-State College of Education," said Debbie Mercer,
dean of the College of Education. "We are proud that people from all professions
including educators, military officers, healthcare, business, law enforcement
and non-profits are turning to the college to advance their careers and
professions."

"It is always exciting to hear of our programs moving up in the rankings of
recognized and respected lists," said Darren Dawson, dean of the College of
Engineering. "Our graduate programs, supported by outstanding faculty and
research projects, are certainly deserving of this."

"The College of Veterinary Medicine has been working on several initiatives to
support the 2025 vision for Kansas State University to become a Top 50 public
research university," said Ralph Richardson, dean of the College of Veterinary
Medicine. "Our improvement in the rankings reflects efforts such as our
dual-degree Doctor of Veterinary Medicine/Doctor of Philosophy program, our
growing number of centers of excellence that focus on improving animal and human
health, the numerous national and international accomplishments of our faculty,
and our commitment to training practicing veterinarians who will be future
leaders in the profession."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 29, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Our ratings serve consumers;
Peer review process allows us to assess a college's character.

BYLINE: Brian Kelly

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 371 words


A dozen liberal arts college presidents recently wrote their counterparts across
America urging them not to participate in the peer review component of U.S. News
& World Report's rankings survey. In the letter, they voiced dissatisfaction
with the whole rankings concept. It's important to remember, however, that these
rankings were not developed to serve the interests of college presidents.

Since 1983, U.S. News each year has published "America's Best Colleges" to
provide college applicants and their parents with information that is not easily
accessible elsewhere. The ranking tables allow consumers to make
apples-to-apples comparisons when faced with one of life's biggest financial
decisions: A four-year education can cost as much as $180,000.

Of course, such an analysis of higher education institutions will please some,
but not all, of those ranked. The letter writers assert that rankings don't
capture each college's unique character. They also say the peer review component
asks them to rate other colleges they may not know well. In reality, the survey
respondents can opt not to rate any institution by checking "don't know." So,
one might ask: How is it that these presidents claim not to be sufficiently
knowledgeable about other colleges in their peer group?

It's ironic that these college presidents would focus their complaints on the
peer review process, as it is designed specifically to counterbalance the purely
quantitative nature of other rankings elements, such as SAT scores, endowments
and average class size. A qualitative assessment from higher education experts
such as university presidents, provosts and admissions deans can help account
for each school's hard-to-measure aspects, such as the quality of teaching and
research -- in other words, its character.

We at U.S. News continually seek to refine and improve the rankings. We meet
regularly with college officials and always demonstrate our willingness to
discuss -- and implement -- improvements to the methodology. As journalists, we
are committed to arming our readers with the facts they need to make decisions.
Withholding such information hardly seems a laudable educational goal.

Brian Kelly is editor of U.S. News & World Report.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            August 5, 2015 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

UGA rises on national list of party schools

BYLINE: Janel Davis; Staff

SECTION: METRO NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 260 words



HIGHLIGHT: State's flagship institution ranked in top 10.


The Princeton Review's annual college rankings are out, and the University of
Georgia is once again listed as one of the country's top party schools.

UGA ranked 8th in the category this year, moving up from the 15th and 11th
rankings in the two previous years. On the opposite end of the libation
spectrum, private institutions Spelman, Agnes Scott and Wesleyan colleges were
included in the top 20 on lists for low beer usage and Stone-Cold Sober Schools.

The Best 380 Colleges book is a collection of 62 ranking lists compiled from
survey responses of 136,000 students at 380 top colleges across the country. The
Princeton Review has published the rankings since 1992 in its annual Best
Colleges guide.

The purpose is not to crown one college academically best overall or rank the
school from one to 380 on any single topic, but to help college applicants
choose and get into their dream college, said Robert Franek, Princeton Review's
senior vice president-publisher.

The 2016 edition will be available for purchase on Tuesday.

In addition to the party-school ranking, UGA also placed in the top 20 in
categories including Lots of Hard Liquor usage, Students Study the Least and
Lots of Beer. The state's flagship institution also ranked 20th among colleges
where Everyone Plays Intramural Sports.

Several other Georgia colleges are included in the Princeton rankings: Emory
University has the 11th best college library, Mercer University has the 9th
lowest beer consumption and Spelman College students are the 20th most engaged
in community service in the country.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2015 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                              258 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 31, 2017 Thursday

Elon academic programs earn recognition in 2018 USA Today and College Factual
"Best Colleges" ranking

LENGTH: 301  words



Raleigh: Elon College has issued the following news release:
Elon University earns 35 badges for excellence in rankings based on the outcomes
of a college education. The rankings were released by USA Today, College Factual
and Google News.


USA Today and College Factual recognize Elon University in the top tier of the
nation's colleges and universities in the 2018 college rankings. Elon is awarded
35 badges for excellence including recognition for four academic programs that
are ranked in the top 5 percent in the nation. Overall, Elon is ranked in the
top 11 percent of colleges and universities nationwide, and receives recognition
for overall value.
Elon earns high national rankings based on the caliber of the student body, the
quality of the faculty, a high freshmen retention rate, a high graduation rate,
high starting salaries of graduates and a low default rate on student loans.
Elon's academic programs receiving the highest rankings in the survey, placing
in the top 5 percent nationwide, include the following:
    Finance and financial management
     Communication and journalism
     Public relations and advertising
     Majors related to parks, recreation and leisure studies
College Factual ranks Elon's strategic communications program the #6 most
focused program in the nation, and the journalism program the #13 most focused
program. Elon's entrepreneurial studies programs are ranked #10 in the nation,
marketing programs are ranked #33, accounting is ranked #40 and the finance
program is ranked the nation's #29 most focused program.
Other academic program areas placing either in the top 10 percent or the top 15
percent nationwide include the following:
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                             August 5, 2014 Tuesday

College rankings: Who's on the Top 20 sober schools list?;
If you want to party, consider Syracuse University, according to the 2015
Princeton Review. But college students who plan to eschew alcohol and drugs:
Check out the Stone-Cold Sober Schools list.

BYLINE: Max Schindler Staff Writer

SECTION: USA

LENGTH: 761 words


Do you equate college with learning - instead of partying?

Then, apply to Brigham Young University, which was crowned the nation's "most
sober school" for 17 years running.

Amid the college rankings craze which pits universities against one other in a
vaguely-defined methodology, Princeton Review announced on Monday its list of
the Top 20 Sober Schools in the United States, based on a nationwide survey of
130,000 students.

As opposed to the debauchery ranking of the mostly-public Top 20 Party Schools,
many of the "stone-cold sober schools" are private Christian colleges or
military academies.

The ranking questionnaires ask students if they drink hard liquor, consume
drugs, sip on beer, belong to Greek life, and how long they study weekly.

Princeton Review doesn't evaluate whether a college's overall studious
atmosphere - or sobriety - correlates with a stronger average GPA or higher
graduation rate. But a 2011 study of 11 Wisconsin universities showed that
individual students who binge-drink - or consume more than four drinks in two
hours - have lower GPAs.

Students who guzzle beer are less likely to spend time hitting the books in the
library, says Robert Franek, author of the Princeton Review guidebook rankings,
adding that the more sober schools have fewer fraternities and sororities.

At some of the sober schools, university administrators touted their
achievement.

"We have a little fun with the rankings," says Brigham Young spokesperson Todd
Hollingshead, commenting on a BYU tweet of chocolate milk - a pun on the Prince
Review sober title of "Got Milk?" - which went viral. "Our students come for the
culture that they see here, where there's no drinking or partying," Mr.
Hollingshead adds.

It's official: BYU is the No. 1 Stone-Cold Sober university 17 years in a row.
Have a cold one on us. pic.twitter.com/dEPuUsnVA7- BYU (@BYU) August 4, 2014

The traditionally-Mormon school - located in Provo Utah - is a "dry" college in
that students pledge to abstain from alcohol and tobacco.

Indicative of what most high-school students may be looking for, a top "party
school" ranking doesn't dissuade student applicants, and in fact applications
soar after landing on the top party school list, says Mr. Franek, mentioning
that applications don't tend to rise at the "sober" schools.

But most parents and students tend not to consult these party rankings, as they
rarely, if ever, raise questions about drugs and alcohol in college, says Rachel
Blankstein, co-founder of Spark Admissions, a college consultancy firm.

"I think that one should take such a ranking with a large grain of salt," Ms.
Blankstein says, adding that companies do these rankings "to get traffic to
their websites."

But the Princeton guidebook author says that the rankings could provide an
applicant with valuable information and prompt discussion. "Students need to
know this so they can say: that's going to be a great fit for me - or that's not
going to be a great fit," Franek adds.

The top 5 sober schools include: Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah,
Wheaton College in Wheaton, Ill., U.S. Military Academy in West Point, N.Y.,
Calvin College in Grand Rapids, Mich., and Thomas Aquinas College in Santa
Paula, Calif..

Taking the No. 1 spot among the "top party" schools was Syracuse University in
New York, which expressed "disappointment" with the ranking, saying "we do not
aspire to be a party school," in a statement.

Syracuse Chancellor Kent Syverud sent a letter to students, including this
comment:

So let's take the "party school" label as a wake-up call at Syracuse-a call that
we have two things to work on. One is to make people around the world even more
aware of the educational excellence here and our commitment to enhancing it and
integrating it into every aspect of student life, including what happens on
evenings and weekends. Two, we have to pay even more attention than our peers to
the aspects of student life-and parties-that get in the way of students
succeeding. High-risk use of alcohol and other drugs (not unrelated to a party
culture) ranks number one on that list. "

The two lists are part of a recently-published 2015 Princeton Review book, "The
Best 379 Colleges." The college guide relies on student feedback to offer more
than sixty top-20 rankings ranging from academics, financial aid, athletics and
dining halls.

Princeton Review conducts the biannual surveys, where they ask 80 questions
about college life to an average of 343 students per school, the Associated
Press reported. The company has published the college guide book since 1992.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                              April 1, 2005 Friday

2 BYU schools rank in report's top 40

BYLINE: Marin Decker and Tiffany Erickson Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 548 words


Brigham Young University's business and law schools were both ranked in the top
40 by the U.S. News and World Report's annual ranking of college and university
undergraduate programs Friday, though both dropped a spot from last year.

The J. Reuben Clark Law School is ranked 35th, down from 34th last year and 31st
the year before. The school is also ranked 16th most selective among law
schools, ahead of Cornell and Duke universities.

The Marriott School of Management is ranked 40th, down from 39th last year and
29th the year before. But the accounting specialty at the business school
climbed a few spots, from 16th last year to 12th this year.

Marriott School Dean Ned Hill said he is pleased by the rankings but views
student development as the school's top priority.

"We're gratified by the recognition this ranking brings to our students and to
the university," Hill said. "Even so, the most important measure of our success
remains the development of men and women of faith, character and professional
ability."

Two other BYU colleges were ranked in the top 100. The Ira F. Fulton College of
Engineering, which debuted on the U.S. News list last year at 81st, is ranked
86th. The David O. McKay School of Education is ranked 85th.

The University of Utah racked up 21 rankings in this year's report.

David Eccles School of Business made the biggest jump in rankings, moving up
eight spots from the 64th position to 56th in just one year.

"Our school has received a lot of recognition recently. We've had some great
national news coverage showcasing the accomplishments of our students. . . . I
think people are starting to take greater notice of the exceptional work being
done by our faculty and students," said Jack Brittain, dean of the business
school.

The U.'s Health Sciences Center is a perennial strong performer in the U.S. News
rankings. Its College of Pharmacy is ranked 14th in the nation, tying with the
University of Southern California and the University of Washington.

"This latest ranking is yet another confirmation of the College of Pharmacy's
outstanding programs," said A. Lorris Betz, senior vice president for health
sciences. "The college consistently ranks as one of the top research programs in
grants awarded from the National Institutes of Health. The U.S. News ranking
shows that the U. College of Pharmacy also offers one of the best training
programs in the country."

Additionally, USU's College of Education and Human Services is ranked 35th in
the nation, and the department of special education and rehabilitation is ranked
19th, tied with the U.

USU also ranked fifth in the nation for research dollars generated at $25.8
million.

The magazine ranked schools on the basis of peer assessment, graduation rate,
faculty resources, entering student grades and test scores, financial resources
and alumni giving rate. Data came from surveys of nearly 1,300 programs and
almost 9,600 academics and professionals conducted in fall 2004.

While there are many college rankings out there, the U.S. News and World Report
is a heavily used resource by high school students preparing to apply for
college.

For a complete listing of the U.S. News & World Report rankings of America's
Best Colleges, visit www.usnews.com. E-mail: mdecker@desnews.com,
terickson@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

                              261 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           October 14, 2015 Wednesday

GTU to develop ranking framework for colleges;
GTU Universal Ranking of Univ System, (GURUS) to start by Jan 2016

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 434  words


GTU Universal Ranking of Univ System, (GURUS) to start by Jan 2016

Gujarat Technological University (GTU) will be evolving a ranking framework by
January 2016 for all colleges affiliated to it. The ranking is aimed to help
students and parents judge the best college and also initiate healthy
competition among colleges.

The ranking framework is called GTU Universal Ranking of University System,
(GURUS). Sources said, "If the ranking framework is approved by the government,
it will also rank the universities of India and the world too." The booklet
revealing the ranking model was recently released.

Joint organising secretary, Bhartiya Shikshan Mandal and general secretary of
Vivekananda International Foundation, Mukul Kanitkarji said, "If India is to
lead in education, ranking frameworks are the beginning towards excellence." He
added, "There is need of practical knowledge, which teaches technical subjects.
Education must be student-centric."  He also talked on need to increase the
industry-academia interface in India.

Vice-Chancellor of GTU, Dr Akshai Aggarwal said that the ranking system is only
the beginning. This is the first draft. We will develop the system so that it
will be applicable to all the universities of the world. 'Post-graduate Research
Centre for Technology Education, Public Policy and Universities of the 21st
Century' & the IPR Cell of GTU have come together to develop the ranking system,
which can assess not only the single-campus universities of the west and of
India but also the affiliating universities.

Aggarwal added, "All world renowned ranking systems like Times Higher Education
(THE), QS and Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARHU) focus only academic
and research activities. They do not consider parameters related to
administration, examination, social impact, livelihood and wellbeing of
students, faculty and other stakeholder which form an integral part of any good
university."

In India, approximately 94% of students are pursuing their higher education in
different colleges, which are affiliated with some university. It is felt that
the QS, ARWU and THE systems of ranking are not able to evaluate the special
characteristics of affiliating universities.

Parameters for ranking

Faculty strength

Adaptation to innovative learning

Innovation ecosystem

Soft Skill, technical skill & life skill

National & International linkages

Use of technology for administration

Campus placement of Students

Co-curricular activities

Quantum of research scholars

Consultancy work

Perception of university by its stakeholders

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  Bar & Bench

                           June 19, 2012 6:30 AM EST

Outlook Rankings: NALSAR, Hyderabad ranked the best law school in the country;
followed by NLSIU, Bangalore and NLIU, Bhopal.

LENGTH: 457  words


Outlook Magazine in association with research agency MRDA has come out with this
year's law school rankings. Outlook has ranked NALSAR Hyderabad as the best law
school in the country; followed by NLSIU Bangalore and NLIU, Bhopal.

NUJS, Kolkata, who had earlier raised concerns about the transparency and the
procedural aspects of the research methodology undertaken by Outlook, took the
fourth position this year. Last year, NUJS had not submitted the data to Outlook
and was not included in the rankings.

This year, some law schools saw a dip in their ranking as compared to last year.
For instance, National Law University, Jodhpur moved down in the rankings from
4th to 5th rank, ILS, Pune from 5th to 6th rank, Symbiosis Law School, Pune from
6th to 8th rank and Law School, BHU, Varanasi from 7th to 12th rank.

Government Law College, Mumbai was ranked 8th last year and this year it has
moved up to 7th position. Amity Law School, Delhi and GNLU, Gandhinagar,
remained consistent in the scale with 9th and 10th position respectively. Law
schools like University Institute of Legal Studies, Chandigarh and University
College of law, Osmania University, which did not participate in the ranking
last year, clinched 13th and 15th ranks this year respectively.

M.S. Ramaiah College of Law, Bangalore that was not in the rankings last year,
found a place in the chart at 14th place. New Law College, BVDU which bagged
11th rank this time is also a new entrant in the ranking list.

Outlook's ranking methodology can be read here
(http://www.outlookindia.com/article.aspx?281309).

If we compare the results of Outlook with that of India Today`s ranking of the
colleges this year (http://www.barandbench.com/../brief/2/2484/india-today-2012-
college-rankings
-out-nlsiu-tops-du-secures-2nd-position-and-nalsar-3rd-nujs-dips-to-rank-7),
there are a few discrepancies and variations in the rankings of the colleges.
NALSAR, which is ranked 1st in Outlook, is ranked 3rd in India Today. NLSIU
which is ranked 2nd in Outlook, is ranked 1st in India Today; NLIU, Bhopal which
is ranked 3rd in Outlook, is ranked 5th in India Today; ILS, Pune which is
ranked 6th in Outlook, is ranked 10th in India Today.

It is also interesting to note that Faculty of Law, Delhi University, which is
ranked 2nd by India Today could not make it in top 15 Outlook rankings. Other
colleges like Faculty of Law, Aligarh Muslim University; Army Institute of Law,
Mohali; Faculty of Law, Jamia Milla Islamia, Delhi and HNLU, Raipur also do not
figure in Outlook rankings but make an appearance in the India Today ranking.

The following table shows a comparison of the rankings of the various law
schools over the past two years, conducted by India Today and Outlook
respectively.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


             Copyright 2012 Bar & Bench, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                           September 13, 2016 Tuesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

IVY GREENER Princeton, Harvard top U.S. News rankings

BYLINE: BY LISA L. COLANGELO NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 362 words


PRINCETON AND Harvard grabbed top honors, ranking No. 1 and No. 2 respectively,
in the 2017 U.S. News Best Colleges rankings released Tuesday.

Yale and the University of Chicago tied for the third-place spot while Columbia
followed in a tie for fifth with Stanford.

Authors of the annual study included data from more than 1,800 colleges and
universities and ranked 1,374 of them. They used a complex methodology that
takes into account factors such as freshman retention, faculty resources and
graduation rates.

U.S News & World Report cited the top universities in New York State as
Columbia, followed by Cornell (ranked No. 15 nationally), University of
Rochester (No. 32) and New York University (No. 36).

Researchers also examined national liberal arts colleges, where at least half of
the degrees are earned in the humanities and social sciences. Williams College
took the No. 1 spot, followed by Amherst College and Wellesley College.

The top-ranked liberal arts colleges in New York are Colgate University,
Hamilton College and Vassar College.

"The U.S. News rankings focus on academic excellence, with schools ranked on up
to 15 measures of academic quality," said Robert Morse, chief data strategist at
U.S. News. "Overall, the rankings emphasize student outcomes - including
graduation and retention rates - which carry the most weight at 30%."

Morse pointed out that the University of Chicago and Johns Hopkins University
have both made a considerable climb up the list over the past 10 years. The
University of Chicago went from ninth to third place in that time period, while
Johns Hopkins jumped from No. 16 on the list to cracking the top 10 for the past
two years.

"Both schools have risen as a result of improving their graduation and freshman
retention rates, as well as their SAT/ACT scores," Morse said. "In addition,
University of Chicago has placed more emphasis on faculty resources while
Hopkins has increased alumni giving."

Howard University in Washington, D.C., rose 11 places, from No. 135 to tie with
four other universities for No. 124. Kansas State University also jumped 11
spots on the list, from No. 146, to tie with seven other schools for No. 135.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 1 Princeton 2 Harvard 3 Columbia SHAWN INGLIMA/DAILY NEWS; AP; GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.

                              264 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            September 9, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

U.S. news & world report college rankings Is it rank, or a rank? *However ...

BYLINE: By Kavita Kumar ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: NEWSWATCH; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1193 words


The much-scrutinized and much-maligned annual college rankings put out by U.S.
News & World Report hit newsstands last month.

Many schools quickly issued the customary round of news releases celebrating
their inching up the list. But leaders at other schools caution against placing
too much stock in what they call a beauty pageant.

About 60 college presidents, including Missouri Baptist University's R. Alton
Lacey, signed a letter a couple months ago pledging to no longer participate in
the magazine's peer survey, the most heavily weighted part of the rankings, in
which presidents and administrators are asked to rate the reputations of other
schools.

Miriam Pride, president of Blackburn College, stopped filling out the thick
survey about five years ago. She said didn't feel she knew enough about most of
the hundreds of schools to rate them.

She also grew disgusted by the piles of glossy, color magazines that would fill
her mailbox from universities she had never heard of in what seemed to her
attempts to increase the schools' reputation score.

"It has provided an incentive for some institutions to send extraordinary
amounts of material to us," she said. "That's money those institutions ought to
be spending on education."

Washington University Chancellor Mark Wrighton said he doesn't have a problem
with the survey, even though he fills out only about 75 percent of it.

"I value what my peers think and value the assessment that my peers provide," he
said.

Moreover, Wrighton values the rankings for presenting useful information about
schools in a concise, easy-to-read format and in a widely-read publication.

But some critics assail the rankings as elitist for rewarding schools that take
students with high SAT and ACT scores and turn away a large number of students.
Others dislike them for favoring certain kinds of schools; residential
universities with traditional students are much more likely to excel than
schools that reach out to first-generation, older and working college students.

The rankings are subjective to be sure, said McKendree University President Jim
Dennis.

"It's just like trying to figure out who is No. 1 in football," he said. "You
can't figure it out until you play. But academically, you can't play against
another school."

Lacey says there is almost no way Missouri Baptist can move out of the rankings'
fourth tier, despite improvements to the school. That's because he doesn't think
the rankings value what he finds important.

For example, his school's mission is to serve students in the metropolitan area.
If he increased the ACT scores required for admission, he would not be able to
serve and educate as many students, he said.

Lacey is hopeful about several alternatives to the rankings that are in the
works.

One such initiative to be launched later this month is the University and
College Accountability Network (U-CAN), a Web-based project by the National
Association of Independent Colleges and Universities. It will have profiles of
hundreds of institutions with comparable data, such as the price most students
actually pay, average student debt upon graduation, enrollment and admissions
statistics.

"What is really driving our efforts ... is growing concerns among students and
families that they need better information to make the best college choice,"
said Tony Pals, the association's spokesman. "And it needs to be provided in a
consumer-friendly format."

Because so many students and faculty refer to the U.S. News rankings, schools
have to pay attention to them, said University of Missouri curator David
Wasinger, who has expressed concern about the Columbia campus' standing in the
rankings.

He said the board is developing performance-based salary incentives for the
university's yet-to-be-named president, and perhaps for its four chancellors.
Wasinger expects some of the criteria will overlap with those of U.S. News.

Few universities admit to actively working to improve their rankings. But
presidents acknowledge that they hear of peers who may be massaging the numbers
they report to the magazine to make them look better.

Blackburn's Pride said she's heard college presidents talk about hiring a firm
or consultant to help improve their ranking.

"If you're really improving your institution, you should be recognized for
that," she said. "But if you're playing games ..."

The stewards of the U.S. News rankings downplay how much manipulation of numbers
occurs. They say they go through a multistep process to try to verify the data
schools provide, and to flag numbers that jump drastically from year to year.

Chancellor Thomas George has not been shy in proclaiming his goal to move the
University of Missouri-St. Louis to the third tier from the fourth.

He is working to raise the school's graduation rate and the percentage of alumni
who give to the university. UMSL recently hired a director to focus on alumni
relations.

"These are mostly things we should be paying attention to anyway," he said. "But
it's fair to say that there is a nudge that is provided by U.S. News & World
Report."

Ken Fox, a college counselor at Ladue Horton Watkins High School, does not keep
a copy of the U.S. News rankings in his office. But many parents bring it in.

"The parents appear to be more rank sensitive than the students," he said.
"There's a sentiment that they want their children to go to the best college
that they can get into. This is one way they have of determining that best
college."

His job is to convince parents that many schools that may not be ranked as
highly could be a better fit for students, he said.

But Fox doesn't see the rankings going away anytime soon.

"We accept them. They are part of our world."

---

Princeton is No. 1, but there are questions about three of the seven sets of
criteria being used:

Category: Peer assessment

Weight: 25 percent

Controversy: Some say this has more to do with reputation than quality.

Category: Graduation and retention rates

Weight: 20 percent

Controversy: Is it fair to compare rates of schools that attract traditional
students to those that cater to, say, older students who work?

Category: Student selectivity (includes SAT/ACT scores, acceptance rate, high
school class standings).

Weight: 15 percent

Controversy: Critics say this does not match some schools' missions to be
accessible to all students.

---

College rankings

Rankings

U.S. News & World Report's "Best National Universities":

Top 12

1. Princeton University

2. Harvard University

3. Yale University

4. Stanford University

5. California Institute of Technology*

5. University of Pennsylvania*

7. Massachusetts Institute of Technology

8. Duke University

9. Columbia University*

9. University of Chicago*

11. Dartmouth College

12. Cornell University*

12. Washington University*

In addition:

38. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

82. St. Louis University

91. University of Missouri-Columbia

* These schools tied.

---

Additional categories

Category: Faculty resources (class size, student-faculty ratio, faculty pay,
percent full-time and with top degrees)

Weight: 20 percent

Category: Alumni giving

Weight: 5 percent

Category: Financial resources

Weight: 10 percent

Category: Graduation rate performance

Weight: 5 percent

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Washington University is ranked No. 12 in the U.S. News & World Report
rankings, which have the support of Chancellor Mark Wrighton.   Karen Elshout |
Post-Dispatch file photo  PHOTO - NO.1* PRINCETON UNIVERSITY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday

COLLEGE: Rankings have limited effect on prospective students, evidence suggests

LENGTH: 1283  words

DATELINE: Long Beach


California State University has issued the following news release:


September 9, 2014

Press Enterprise
By Mark Muckenfuss

For all the attention today's college rankings from U.S. News & World Report
generate, one might think prospective students rely on little else when deciding
which school to attend.
Research and anecdotal evidence show that rankings do have an impact on
prospective students, but probably not enough to justify the hype generated by
rankings agencies and university marketing departments.


Brian Haynes, vice president for student affairs at Cal State San Bernardino,
said that while the rankings might be of more importance to the Ivy League
schools that typically top rankings lists, they carry much less weight for
public universities. On this year's list, UC Berkeley is the top-ranked public
university, coming in at No. 20.
"It's my impression that most parents and most seniors are aware of those
rankings and use them to help identify an institution they might want to further
research," Haynes said. "Parents want to know specific things about rankings.
They want to know where the academic programs are ranked. Students want to know
more about some of the out-of-classroom activities."
Haynes said the university surveys incoming freshmen each year. One of the
questions is how the students became interested in Cal State San Bernardino.
Ranking, he said, "is down on the list. Most of our students hear about Cal
State San Bernardino from guidance counselors."
Cal State San Bernardino did not make U.S. News & World Report's overall
rankings this year of the top 268 universities nationally. It came in at 66
among western universities.
UC Riverside dropped one notch from last year, tying with the University of
South Carolina and Minnesota's University of St. Thomas for 113. It also dropped
in the rankings of best-value colleges, going from 35 last year to 48 on this
year's list.
What that means to students is hard to gauge.
Mike Allevato, 21, is going into his fourth year as a biochemistry major. He
said college rankings were not a factor in his decision to come to UCR.
But, he added, "My sister chose Cornell because it was No. 1 in plant biology."
Allevato said he may take rankings into account as he looks past graduation to
medical school or bio medicine.
"I would want to go to a school that's ranked high," he said. "I want to stay in
California, but say I got into Cornell Medical College and they were ranked No.
1 in bio medicine. It would be a difficult choice whether to stay or go to the
No. 1-ranked school."
College rankings aren't limited to U.S. News & World Report, although that list
tends to grab the most attention. There also are rankings by Princeton Review,
Money and Forbes magazines, and a host of other national and international
organizations.
This was the second year in a row that UCR ranked second on Washington Monthly's
rankings. It finished in the top 150 in a recent global university ranking.

Cal State San Bernardino was recently ranked 12th on Money magazine's list of
the 25 top colleges that add the most value.
There are as many different metrics and methodologies for compiling rankings as
there are lists themselves. Steve Brint, UCR's vice provost of undergraduate
education, said the U.S. News and Princeton lists tend to favor private
universities.
"The publics don't like them," Brint said. "You can probably explain 70 percent
of the rankings by how selective the university is."
The smaller the number of applicants you accept, he said, the more likely you
are to rank highly. Private universities such as Harvard and Princeton often
devote a lot of effort to maintaining or elevating their ranking, Brint said.
"They will spend quite a lot of staff time and energy trying to figure out how
to move up a couple of placings on the rankings," he said. "Even a change in one
rank matters tremendously to them, especially if they slip."
Some institutions go to extreme measures.[#xfffd] In 2012, Claremont McKenna
College released a report saying that a former vice president had inflated
student scores that were reported to ranking agencies.
A 2013 study published by the Journal of Economics & Management Strategy showed
that a one-place improvement in the U.S. News rankings translated into a 1
percent increase in freshman applications.
There are no data to show whether that kind of influence applies at local
universities but UCR director of undergraduate admissions Emily Engelschall said
she thinks rankings can help attract potential students.
"It raises our profile and makes students aware that UCR is ranked with the
other UCs and we're a great school to attend," she said. "We have a
first-contact brochure. It's about a 20-page brochure. We do dedicate one page
to rankings."
In the school's survey of incoming freshmen, Engelschall said, "we find that
just under 50 percent of our admitted students value rankings in their admission
decision."
Biochemistry major Elsie Gonzales, 23, of Riverside, said finances were behind
her decision to transfer from Riverside City College to UCR. She also was
accepted at UCLA, she said, but going to UCR allowed her to continue living at
home, making her education more affordable.
"I remember looking at rankings when I was transferring," she said. "I didn't
really consider them, because UCR was the better option."
Jennifer Fairbrother, 20, of Corona, is in her fourth year as a math and physics
major. Although she's a numbers-oriented person, she said she didn't consider
rankings when deciding to come to UCR.
"My mom definitely looked into the rankings," she said. "But I didn't do any
research on rankings myself."
Now, however, she does pay some attention to them.

"I'm one of the science ambassadors for my college. We do a lot of recruiting
events. When students come up and ask, 'Why should I choose UCR?' the rankings
are a big thing."
The rankings also may influence faculty members and where they might decide to
work, said Cal State's Haynes, but probably to a much lesser degree.
"What I look for quite frankly is resources," Haynes said. "Faculty would
probably look at their individual department first and then maybe some of the
rankings."
Bob Morse, chief data strategist for U.S. News and World Report, has been
involved with the magazine's rankings since the late 1980s. He said more people
are looking at the rankings today, many out of necessity.
"With the costs of education rising," he said, "I think people are trying to
understand what is the best school for the money more than they used to."
There is evidence to support Morse's statement. Each year, UCLA researchers
survey college freshmen across the country. They ask about rankings.
Kevin Eagan is director of the program that conducts the survey. In 2013, he
said, 17.6 percent of those surveyed said rankings were very important in
deciding where to attend college. In 1995, the first year the survey was done,
that figure was just 10 percent.
Jorge Ancona, assistant vice chancellor for UCR's alumni affairs office, said
the rankings can also influence a school's ability to attract money.
Ancona said he had no hard data, but his experience has shown him, "if the
rankings are favorable, they instill pride in alumni. If they're excited by what
they're seeing, they might be more open to making a donation."
Fundraisers, he said, highlight the surveys in which the school ranks the
highest.
"The (rankings) that really start speaking about access, affordability,
contributing to society, those are the ones that UCR really does well in," he
said. "And some would argue those are the ones that really matter."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Richmond Register (Kentucky)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           September 2, 2017 Saturday

EDITORIAL: Quality education: Berea College, EKU receive high marks in latest
rankings

BYLINE: Richmond Register, Ky.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 452 words


Sept. 02--As college students return to Madison County, they should feel a sense
of pride. So too should their parents and area residents.

For the second year in a row, Berea College was ranked the top liberal arts
college in the nation. It also earned the top spot in Washington Monthly's "Best
Bang for the Buck" ranking of colleges in the South.

The good news for those attending college in Madison County doesn't stop there.

Eastern Kentucky University ranks second among all public universities in
Kentucky in the annual "Best Bang for the Buck" rankings, beating out the
University of Kentucky and University of Louisville. Only Murray State
University ranked higher overall in the survey among public state schools.

These rankings aren't just about prestige and wealth either.

Washington Monthly's rankings measure each school's success in three key areas
-- social mobility (admitting and graduating low-income students), research and
Ph.D. production, and community service -- to determine the rankings.

"These values are consistent with Berea's 'Great Commitments' that inform all of
Berea's work and inspire donors to support it," said Berea College President
Lyle Roelofs.

While some schools have a certain prestige or reject a high number of
applicants, it doesn't necessarily mean it is a better school.

Berea College received top marks by Washington Monthly for the college's unique
four-year tuition promise scholarships and the number of students who graduate
with marketable degrees.

Between 80 and 90 percent of Berea students receive federal Pell grants and the
national graduation rates for that demographic averages only in the mid-teens.
By contrast, about two-thirds of Berea's students graduate on time and a healthy
number go on to earn Ph.Ds., as well as other advanced degrees.

EKU's high ranking comes from not only being one of the most affordable in the
state, but for its impressive percentage of employed graduates.

More than 75 percent of EKU degree holders are employed in Kentucky a year after
graduation, the highest percentage among all public four-year universities in
the Commonwealth. Eighty-four percent of EKU graduates with bachelor's degrees
are employed five years post-graduation.

"EKU is committed to helping every student reach his or her full potential,"
said Dr. Eugene Palka, vice president for student success at Eastern.

For students attending college in Madison County, Berea College and Eastern
Kentucky University do just that. They provide a quality education all while
helping students reach their potential.

___ (c)2017 the Richmond Register (Richmond, Ky.) Visit the Richmond Register
(Richmond, Ky.) at richmondregister.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170902-RP-EDITORIAL-Quality-education-Berea-College
-EKU-receive-high-marks-in-latest-rankings-0902-20170902

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RP


                      Copyright 2017 The Richmond Register

                              267 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Albert Lea Tribune (Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 22, 2012 Friday

Ranking shines light on Riverland

BYLINE: Kelli Lageson, Albert Lea Tribune, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 284 words


June 22--Riverland Community College tied for seventh-place among community
colleges in Minnesota based on new success ratings.

CNNMoney released a report ranking community colleges earlier in June. The
website www.collegemeasures.org compiled data from the U.S. Department of
Education that compiled "success ratings," which rates how many students
graduate or transfer to another university in three years.

Riverland's success rate is 58 percent, which makes it tied for seventh-place
among the 25 Minnesota community colleges that were ranked. Scott Williams, dean
of Riverland's campus in Albert Lea and dean of academic affairs, said while he
was glad to see Riverland's rankings compared to other colleges that it's
important to take this "success rating" with a grain of salt.

"You've got to realize in a comprehensive college setting that we have very
diverse programs and student circumstances are different," Williams said.

He gave the example of a full-time student who after one year in the program
gets hired and then takes longer to finish school on a part-time basis. If the
goal is employment, then the school was successful with that student, even
though that example would hurt the "success rating."

Williams said this way of looking at data is just one of many ratings and
studies the college looks at. Riverland was ranked 64th out of the 790 colleges
in the nation on the list. There are more than 1,200 community colleges in the
nation but school with less than 200 incoming freshmen were not included in the
ranking.

___ (c)2012 the Albert Lea Tribune (Albert Lea, Minn.) Visit the Albert Lea
Tribune (Albert Lea, Minn.) at www.albertleatribune.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120622-1AL-Ranking-shines-light-on-Riverland-0622-20120622

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AL


                       Copyright 2012 Albert Lea Tribune

                              268 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Herald-Times (Bloomington, Indiana)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           September 13, 2016 Tuesday

IU Bloomington falls in college rankings

BYLINE: Michael Reschke, Herald-Times, Bloomington, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 597 words


Sept. 13--Indiana University Bloomington has fallen 11 spots in U.S. News &
World Report's 2017 Best Colleges Rankings compared to last year.

The rankings, released Tuesday, put IU at No. 86 in a six-way tie with
Binghamton University, Marquette University, the University of Denver, the
University of San Diego and the University of Tulsa. Last year, IU was in a
seven-way tie for the No. 75 ranking with Clark University, the Colorado School
of Mines, Michigan State University, Stevens Institute of Technology, the
University of Delaware and the University of Massachusetts at Amherst.

U.S. News uses a variety of categories to come up with its rankings. The
outcomes category, which includes things like retention, graduation rate
performance and graduation rate, carries the most weight and accounts for 30
percent of the equation. Retention measures the percentage of freshmen returning
to campus and eventually graduating. Graduation rate performance measures how
well schools are graduating their students based on U.S. News predictions, which
consider spending, test scores and the proportion of students receiving Pell
Grants. IU's four-year graduation rate is 60 percent, according to the rankings
report.

Expert opinion accounts for 22.5 percent of an institution's ranking. Experts
include college and university presidents, provosts, high school counselors and
admissions deans.

"These experts are in the best position to judge a school's undergraduate
academic quality," according to U.S. News' explanation of its methodology.

Faculty resources account for 20 percent. This category takes into account
things like class size, student-to-faculty ratio, proportion of full-time
faculty, proportion of professors with the highest degrees in their field and
faculty salary.

"The more satisfied students are with their professors, the more likely they
will learn and the more likely they are to graduate, studies show," according to
the methodology explanation.

The majority of classes at IU, about 46 percent, have between 20 and 49
students, according to the rankings report. About 35 percent have fewer than 20
students, while about 18 percent have 50 or more.

Student excellence accounts for 12.5 percent of the ranking methodology,
financial resources counts for 10 percent and alumni giving accounts for 5
percent.

Princeton University topped the list of best national universities again,
followed by Harvard University, which also held the same spot last year. The
University of Chicago jumped one spot to tie with Yale University for the No. 3
ranking.

Northwestern University was the top-ranked Big Ten institution, sharing the No.
12 ranking with the California Institute of Technology. The University of Notre
Dame was in a four-way tie for the No. 15 ranking, while Purdue University's
West Lafayette campus shared the No. 60 spot with five other schools. Ball State
University came in at No. 176, along with six other institutions.

In addition to the Best National Universities ranking, U.S. News put IU at No.
53 in its list of Best Colleges for Veterans and No. 67 in its High School
Counselor Rankings.

Reached by phone, IU spokeswoman Margie Smith-Simmons said the university had
not received a press release regarding the 2017 rankings.

A press release about the 2017 rankings can be found here:
http://www.usnews.com/info/blogs/press-room/articles/2016-09-13/us-news-releases
-2017-best-colleges-rankings.

___ (c)2016 the Herald-Times (Bloomington, Ind.) Visit the Herald-Times
(Bloomington, Ind.) at www.heraldtimesonline.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160913-BM-IU-Bloomington-falls-in-college-rankings-0913-20160913

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                          Copyright 2016 Herald-Times

                              269 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              LNP (Lancaster, PA)

                          September 10, 2015 Thursday

Millersville Is Rated Among Best In North;
Higher Education 24Th In U.S. News & World Report; F&M, Elizabethtown Also Score
Well

BYLINE: Staff

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 339  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


STAFF

Millersville University is ranked among the top 25 public regional universities
in the northern region by U.S. News & World Report in its annual Best Colleges
report.

In the 2016 rankings, released Wednesday, Millersville is ranked 24th in that
category. U.S. News & World Report defines regional universities as those
offering a broad scope of undergraduate degrees and some master's degree
programs but few, if any, doctoral programs.

Franklin & Marshall College was ranked 41st among 100 national liberal arts
colleges. The college slipped a few spots from last year's ranking of 37th. U.S.
News & World Report defines liberal arts colleges as those that emphasize
undergraduate education and award at least half of their degrees in the liberal
arts fields of study.

Elizabethtown College was ranked fourth among regional colleges in the northern
region. The college maintained its spot from last year's rankings. Regional
colleges are defined as those having a focus on undergraduate education but
grant fewer than half their degrees in liberal arts disciplines.

"I see this ranking as recognition of our collective efforts at Millersville
University to provide diverse, dynamic and meaningful experiences to inspire our
learners," said Brian Hazlett, vice president of student affairs and enrollment
management at Millersville. "This is a testament to the effort and quality of
our faculty, staff, programs and students. We are honored to be recognized."

Among all regional universities, including private ones, in the northern region,
Millersville ranked 83rd, up from 87th last fall.

"We gather data from each college on up to 16 indicators of academic excellence.
Each factor is assigned a weight that reflects our judgment about how much that
measure matters," U.S. News & World Report said on its website about its ranking
methodology.

The colleges and universities in each category are also ranked against their
peers, based on their score.

The "Best Colleges 2016" guidebook is expected to be available on newsstands
Sept. 29.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 LNP Media Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended

Area colleges get good marks;

BYLINE: FROM STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS

SECTION: NEBRASKA; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 259 words


A magazine says the University of Nebraska-Lincoln is the 47th-best public
university and that Creighton University is the best regional university in the
Midwest.

U.S. News & World Report also ranked both Nebraska Wesleyan University and Doane
College in Crete 152nd among liberal arts colleges, making those two schools the
top Nebraska colleges in that category.

The magazine ranked Concordia University in Seward sixth in the category, "Great
Schools, Great Prices," making it the only Nebraska school in that category.

Concordia also held steady at No. 16 among regional colleges in the Midwest,
remaining the highest ranked Nebraska school in that category.

The rankings were released Tuesday. Regional universities are ones that have a
full range of undergraduate and master's programs but a limited number of
doctoral programs.

Regional colleges are ones that focus on undergraduate education but grant fewer
than half their degrees in liberal arts disciplines.

Liberal arts colleges are ones that emphasize undergraduate education and award
at least half of their degrees in the liberal arts fields of study.

UNL's ranking places it among the top one-quarter of all public universities in
the country. Last year, UNL was ranked 43rd. It's the eighth year in a row
Creighton has been ranked No.1.

The ranking of Wesleyan and Creighton places them in the top tier of liberal
arts colleges in America.

Creighton also was recognized as the best value in the Midwest among regional
universities for giving students the best returns on their tuition investments.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 19, 2010 Thursday



CORRECTION: Rankings corrected

U.S. News & World Report's annual ranking of colleges and universities ranked
both Nebraska Wesleyan University and Doane College in Crete 152nd among liberal
arts colleges. The rankings of Wesleyan and Doane placed them in the top tier of
liberal arts colleges in America. A story on Page B2 in Wednesday's Journal Star
incorrectly listed another school instead of Doane.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 Lincoln Journal Star
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                Intelligencer Journal (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

                             August 18, 2006 Friday

Three colleges here rank high in survey

BYLINE: Brett Hambright

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1387 words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


Students who have decided to attend one of three Lancaster County institutions
of higher learning this fall should be reassured in their decision by a recent
national ranking.

Millersville University and Elizabethtown and Franklin & Marshall colleges again
fared well in U.S. News & World Report of America's Best Colleges, released this
week.

All three schools ranked among the country's top 60 in their respective
categories.

Elizabethtown placed third among comprehensive colleges in the northern United
States; F&M tied for 41st among liberal arts schools nationwide; and
Millersville tied for 56th out of universities offering master's programs in the
northern United States.

The results came as no surprise to the people at Elizabethtown College.

"We always hope and plan to be among the top schools in our category," Mary
Dolheimer, director of marketing and media relations at Elizabethtown, said. "We
have been in the top five consistently for the past 13 years."

Elizabethtown ranked second in its category a year ago.

First-place Stonehill College and Simon's Rock College of Bard, both in
Massachusetts, finished ahead of Elizabethtown this year.

U.S. News & World Report rankings are based on numerous factors, including
graduation and freshman retention rates, class size and student-to-faculty
ratios.

"With any ranking, you have to take it with a grain of salt," Dolheimer said of
the report. "But there is value to the ranking as far as getting our name out."

Jim McCollum, assistant to the university president at Millersville University,
said the ranking "provides a measure of validation of quality."

"Colleges also use (rankings) for benchmarks from which to do self-evaluations
and look for ways to improve," McCollum said.

Princeton University was ranked atop the overall list of universities. For the
previous three years, Princeton shared the top spot with Ivy League peer Harvard
University.

Franklin & Marshall College tied Dickinson College and Furman University (S.C.)
in 41st place among the nation's top liberal arts schools. Massachusetts-based
Williams and Amherst colleges are listed first and second, respectively, in the
category.

F&M tied for 39th last year.

Among universities offering master's programs in the northern United States,
Millersville University finished in a six-way tie for 56th with Niagara
University (N.Y.), SUNY-Fredonia, Springfield College (Mass.), and Shippensburg
University and College Misericordia - both Pennsylvania schools.

In 2006, Millersville was listed 44th in its category.

Earlier this year, Millersville placed 57th in Kiplinger's 100 Best Values in
Public Colleges. That ranking, compiled by the Washington, D.C.-based finance
forecast organization, weighs financial statistics more heavily than U.S. News &
World Report. "What's telling for MU is that two different national measures
recognized that we do well in both," said McCollum, who's been in his position
at Millersville for six weeks.

McCollum, whose previous job was corresponding with presidents of 15
universities in Ohio, added, "I've spent my whole life in higher education. I
know a lot of things about higher-education systems.

"(Millersville) is a good one. It's a quality one."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.

                              272 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           September 13, 2016 Tuesday

Princeton, Cal top college rankings

BYLINE: AMY HE in New York

LENGTH: 609  words


Princeton University remains the best private university in the US, according to
the latest US News & World Report college rankings, and the University of
California Berkeley -- which has a large Chinese-student presence -- is the top
public school in the US.

Ascreenshot of lists of 2017 US News Best Colleges Rankings.

Princeton University remains the best private university in the US, according to
the latest US News & World Report college rankings, and the University of
California Berkeley -- which has a large Chinese-student presence -- is the top
public school in the US.

US News released its 2017 Best Colleges rankings on Tuesday, and the top private
universities are Princeton, Harvard University, University of Chicago, Yale
University, Columbia University, Stanford University, the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Duke University, University of Pennsylvania and Johns
Hopkins University.

Of those, Columbia University has the most international students from China.

The top public universities in the country are UC Berkeley, UCLA, the University
of Virginia, the University of Michigan and the University of North Carolina.

Of the public universities, UC Berkeley and UCLA have the highest number of
Chinese international students, according to a list compiled by Foreign Policy
magazine.

Williams College in Massachusetts was selected as the best liberal arts college
for the 14th year in a row.

The list of schools, published annually and used often by prospective college
students, is based on 15 measures of academic quality, such as student
graduation and retention rates.

US News also included a list of schools with the most international students to
better help international students who are interested in studying abroad. The
list is widely consulted by Chinese students, and the media company publishes
articles in Chinese to let students and their parents understand the college
admissions process, how to work with agents, and paying for college.

"US colleges and universities are becoming increasingly global and are finding
new ways to support their international students. There is an influx of Chinese
students looking to study in the US, and US News wants them to have easy access
to trusted information that caters to their unique needs and helps them find the
right college," said Anita Narayan, managing editor of education at US News.

"For both international and US students, a college choice can profoundly affect
career opportunities, financial well-being and quality of life. The US News
rankings can help prospective students navigate through the process of finding
the right college, and can provide security and set expectations for their
investments," she said to China Daily.

Despite the popularity of the rankings list, it also has faced criticism from
education experts who say that the way US News ranks the colleges is
inconsistent year to year, making it hard to gauge why a certain college
outranks another.

Critics, such as the non-profit Education Conservancy, say that the list implies
a "false precision and authority that is not warranted by the data US News uses"
and overweighs a university's prestige.

The education organization said in a 2007 letter to college presidents
protesting the ranking that the list reflects little to nothing about students'
abilities to learn at the universities.

There also have been examples of colleges trying to game the system in order to
earn a higher ranking on the list, such as Claremont-McKenna College in
California, which was caught in 2012 for providing US News with false SAT
scores.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/50/147373466574.jpg

f8bc126e4b4e1941a37301.jpg

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                           September 10, 2013 Tuesday
                                  Main Edition

HIGHER EDUCATION;
Emory keeps top 20 ranking

BYLINE: Kristina Torres; Staff

SECTION: METRO NEWS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 924 words



HIGHLIGHT: University retains national score despite past misreporting. Other
Georgia schools also earn high marks.


Emory University did it again.

In rankings released today by U.S. News & World Report, the university scored
among the nation's top colleges. Emory has held on to the No. 20 spot for the
last four years --- including when officials sent the magazine inflated figures
about its students.

Emory was tied with two other colleges, Georgetown and the University of
California-Berkeley.

Emory acknowledged last year it had spent more than a decade intentionally
misreporting data to groups that rate colleges, sending a shock wave through
academic circles and providing ammunition to rankings critics who worry about
manipulation. Starting last year, it has certified that the information it sent
was accurate.

"Emory's eminent faculty, engaged scholars and diverse and rich academic
environment have established (it) as a leading center of discovery, teaching and
learning," Emory Provost Claire Sterk said in a statement. "External recognition
is gratifying, but our focus continues to be on providing the best possible
academic experience for our students."

Other Georgia schools scoring well include Georgia Tech, ranked No. 36
nationally out of the more than 200 top tier schools listed in the combined
ranking of both private and public institutions (it scored No. 7 among the
nation's top public universities); Spelman and Morehouse colleges, ranked No. 1
and No. 2 respectively as the country's best historically black colleges; and
Mercer University, ranked No. 8 among the South's best regional universities.

Many students and parents look at the rankings when deciding where to apply to
school, with some refusing to consider schools that fail to earn a high mark.
Colleges with strong spots advertise their standing in promotional materials,
knowing it attracts academic prestige and higher-caliber students.

Emory was never able to fully determine when and why the misreporting began,
although outside experts reasoned it was driven by the pressure to keep its top
20 school status.

The school previously sent test score data for admitted students instead of
those who had enrolled, which inflated the school's reported SAT and ACT test
scores. It also overstated the percentage of incoming students who graduated in
the top 10 percent of their high school classes. And it "may have" excluded the
scores of the bottom 10 percent of students when reporting information about
incoming classes, officials said last year.

Emory has taken steps to make sure data is reported correctly. Among them, a
universitywide advisory committee is charged with ensuring the institution is
following the rules.

U.S. News magazine officials changed the methodology for the rankings this year
for the first time since 2011, although they said it was unrelated to
misreporting such as what happened at Emory. Among the changes, they increased
the importance of results such as student graduation and retention rates and
decreased the weight of things like a student's high school class ranking.

"Do I think our rankings are tainted by the misreportings? No," said Robert
Morse, the magazine's director of data research. "The fact we've been
transparent ... has made our system stronger."

Notably, Emory fared just fine in one of the largest factors used in the
magazine's analysis: a survey of what other top college officials and high
school counselors think of the school. That counted for 22.5 percent of Emory's
score. Last year's surveys were turned in before Emory disclosed its data
deception, so Morse had said it wouldn't be known until this year whether the
situation harmed the school's reputation.

Tina Daniel, a high school counselor and board member of the Georgia School
Counselors Association, said her students and families still think Emory is a
great school, adding that college rankings are helpful but not the sole deciding
factor about where to attend college. The misreporting "really has not come up
at all," she said.

"College admission has many variables," Daniel said. "This is just one piece of
information students and families will look at as they make their decisions."

OTHER GEORGIA COLLEGES

Several Georgia colleges appeared in the U.S. News rankings. Here are some
examples:

Georgia Tech --- No. 7 among national public universities and No. 36 among
national public and private universities.

University of Georgia --- No. 20 among national public universities and tied
with Southern Methodist University at No. 60 among national public and private
universities.

Spelman College --- No. 1 among historically black colleges.

Morehouse College --- No. 2 among historically black colleges.

Mercer University --- No. 8 among the South's best regional universities.

Source: U.S. News & World Report, Best Colleges 2014.

EMORY RANKINGS

Emory University has been a top 20 school for more than 20 years. Here's where
the school landed in recent years:

Edition Ranking

2014 20 (tied)

2013 20

2012 20

2011 20

2010 17

2009 18

Source: U.S. News & World Report and Emory University

RANKING METHODOLOGY

U.S. News uses statistical data and subjective surveys when ranking colleges.
Here are the weighted measures for "Best National Universities, " a category
that includes Emory University, Georgia Tech and the University of Georgia:

Undergraduate academic reputation 22.5%

Graduation and retention rates 22.5%

Faculty resources 20%

Student selectivity 12.5%

Financial resources 10%

Graduation rate performance* 7.5%

Alumni giving 5% *Graduation rate performance is the difference between actual
and predicted graduation rates.

Source: U.S. News & World Report, Best Colleges 2014.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2013 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                              274 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     December 6, 2001 Thursday CITY EDITION

RANKING RANKLES MACALESTER CHIEF;
REVIEW SAYS STUDENTS THERE 'IGNORE GOD'

BYLINE: Kristina Torres, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 435 words


Everybody wants to be first, but one such ranking for Macalester College had
President Michael McPherson so incensed he shot off an e-mail suggesting prayer.

"I was annoyed," said McPherson, who recently discovered his St. Paul college's
No. 1 Princeton Review ranking as the school where "students ignore God on a
regular basis."

He has since rescinded his suggestion that students log on to the company's Web
site and say they pray a lot. But he maintains that the ranking is "just dumb. I
certainly never suggested anybody should misrepresent themselves on the survey.
The right response to silly nonsense is to ignore it."

Princeton Review is a test-preparation and college-admissions service that for
the past 10 years has annually released "The Best 331 Colleges," a college
guidebook ranking everything from parties to cafeteria food and based on survey
data from, at last count, 65,000 college students.

It's not exactly scientific, but "it is so dead-on," said Robert Franek, one of
the co-authors and the company's director of guidebook publication. "It's the
opinion of the experts, who are the students of these schools."

The rankings, released in August, have included Macalester on the "ignore God"
list since 1995. But it was only about a month ago that McPherson, whose
1,780-student school is affiliated with the Presbyterian Church, received a few
faxes complaining about the ranking. (Macalester also ranked in four other
categories, including as the No. 20 school with "Birkenstock-wearing,
tree-hugging, clove-smoking vegetarians.")

Because the survey and its results are also available online, McPherson seized
on the idea of an online response.

Franek, who found out about the hubbub earlier this week, is still chuckling.
This is the first time he's heard of such a response by a college president to
the rankings.

McPherson, still angry there's no readily available disclaimer about how the
data are collected, notes that the one survey question about religion doesn't
ask students if they "ignore God," but rather asks them to respond to a
statement about whether students at their school are "strongly religious."

Macalester has 10 religiously affiliated student organizations on campus, and
"there aren't a large number of Macalester students who feel a large detachment
from God," says McPherson.

He added: "I'm still annoyed. People may actually think this is based on
something."

Rankings: www.review.com Macalester College: www.macalester.edu

Kristina Torres, who covers higher education, can be reached at
ktorres@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-2120.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              June 9, 2017 Friday

Manipal top among private Indian Universities in QS World Rankings

BYLINE: Jaideep Shenoy

SECTION: MANGALURU

LENGTH: 619 words


MANIPAL: In a remarkable achievement, Manipal University broke into the
Quacquarelli Symonds University World Rankings 2018 released on Thursday. In the
14th edition of the rankings, Manipal University figures in the 701-750 band,
which is the best for a private Indian university. Overall among the Indian
Universities, Manipal is in the 13th position. In this year's ranking, over 950
universities from 84 countries have been ranked.Manipal University is also among
the top 72% in the QS world ranking considering there are approximately 26,000
Universities globally.

This makes Manipal University one of the top 2.7% Universities in the
world.Manipal University Vice Chancellor Dr H Vinod Bhat commenting on the
achievement said; "I am delighted to learn about Manipal University position in
the QS World ranking of universities 2018. We have reached a major milestone
with this achievement."Attributing this to the result of rigorous efforts and
perseverance of the faculty, staff, students and alumni, he said the
university's focus now is to be sub-600 in the 2019 world Rankings. "With world
class infrastructure, our faculty ratio, international collaboration and a
strong alumni base and ever growing research capability, I am certain that we
will get there," he said.For the 2018 Rankings, QS has analyzed over 75 million
citations from more than 12 million papers, 115,000 survey responses from
employers and academics and considered more than 4,000 universities before
evaluating 950 of them. The QS World University Rankings 2018 is bigger and more
comprehensive than ever and remains the only global ranking to have been
independently scrutinized.Universities are evaluated according to six
performance indicators, which are: academic reputation, employer reputation,
student-to-faculty ratio, citations per faculty, international faculty ratio and
international student ratio. Four of the indicators are based on 'hard' data,
and the remaining two are based on major global surveys - one of academics and
another of employers - each the largest of their kind.Dr Bhat added: We have
also done well in the ranking by subject with our pharmacy and medical colleges
finding places in world ranking. With this as the much needed shot in the arm,
we hope to do much better in the next couple of years. We have done well in the
rankings by magazines within the country, which is indication of the good
progress we are making. I am also glad with the progress we are making in
research". Earlier this year, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences and
Kasturba Medical Colleges, Manipal and Mangalore featured in the QS World
University Ranking by Subject. And it was for the first time that Manipal
University's constituent colleges were finding places in the ranking by
subjects. The pharmacy College was ranked in the 251-300 range and the medical
colleges in the 451-500 range. In the Times Higher Education BRICS and Emerging
Economies University Rankings 2017, Manipal University has been ranked in the
251-300 bracket. In the 2016 QS University Asia Ranking, Manipal University
figured at the 200th position. Manipal University broke into that prestigious
position from among the top 350 Universities across 17 Asian countries. A number
of ranking agencies in India, have in their 2017 surveys, found Manipal
University to be the best private university in the country. THE WEEK for
instance, has for the third successive time ranked Manipal as the best private
university in the country, Education World has a similar ranking for the second
consecutive time and in Karnataka State Universities Rating Framework (KSURF),
Manipal was declared the best in the state.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 10, 2001, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Colleges put poll ranking above student needs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 620 words

As U.S. News & World Report's college rankings hit newsstands today, the carping
from college officials will be loud and lively. But it won't target the worst
aspect of this annual ritual: the games colleges play to eke out even the
tiniest advantage.

Lapped up eagerly by college aspirants and parents, and awaited nervously by
college officials, the rankings have become an unhealthy force in higher
education. Reputations and jobs can be lost based on the smallest slip in rank,
and college officials make frenzied attempts to massage the few variables over
which they have some control -- from the schools' selectivity to their alumni's
generosity. The trouble is none of it has much to do with improving education.


Every time a college fashions procedures with these rankings in mind, it
sacrifices students to its own vanity. Yet schools attempt to gain an advantage
in several areas:

 * Alumni giving: In the mid-1990s, Cornell University purged its alumni lists
of former students who didn't graduate or whose mailing addresses were unknown
-- a tool to hike its percentage of alumni giving in the rankings, according to
Cornell economist and former vice president Ronald Ehrenberg. Since 1997,
Cornell has risen in that category from 80th to 16th this year. At another
college, an alumnus bragged of making a major gift in the names of his entire
class, a ruse to boost his alma mater's donation statistics. Both make it appear
to potential students that alumni satisfaction rose.

 * Selectivity: Colleges play all sorts of tortured games to make themselves
look more selective. According to Ehrenberg, one president of a flagship public
university confided that he might be forced to solicit more applications from
less-qualified students, so the college can turn them down, thus making it
appear more selective. Pennsylvania's Franklin and Marshall College last year
wait-listed many top applicants, while accepting students with lesser
credentials. The top applicants, one official reasoned, might opt for more
prestigious institutions, lowering the school's crucial "yield" and making it
appear less desirable. The move improved one selectivity measure this fall.

 * SATs: More than 300 colleges no longer require applicants to submit SAT
scores, a laudable change given the flawed nature of the test, but one that
creates an illusion. High-scoring students submit results anyway, which are
passed on to U.S. News and exaggerate a school's average scores.

 * Early decision: Since 1990, more schools have started "early decision"
programs, in which students apply early, have their applications processed
quickly and, if accepted, pledge to enroll. Such enrollees tend to boost a
school's yield and its statistical cachet. But the process denies students the
broader choice that comes with applying to more than one college and ties them
to a school regardless of its financial aid offer.

In spite of these efforts, many students find other criteria more important in
selecting a school. In a 2000 survey by the UCLA Higher Education Research
Institute, fewer than 10% of college freshmen rated magazine rankings "very
important."

The colleges insist their motive for the changes is educational quality. Some
point out that moving up noticeably in the rankings would require drastic
changes. Some blame U.S. News for its shallow focus.

Their defense contains some truth, but is an excuse. The time and money colleges
spend gaming the magazine's rankings are resources lost on improving education
and serving their real consumers, the students.Today's debate: College rankings
Release of magazine's annual list spurs scramble to polish image.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source:U.S. News & World
Report(Bar graph)

TYPE: DEBATE

                      Copyright 2001 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              277 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Richmond Register (Kentucky)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           September 2, 2017 Saturday

EDITORIAL: A quality education: Berea College, EKU receive high marks in latest
rankings

BYLINE: Richmond Register, Ky.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 452 words


Sept. 02--As college students return to Madison County, they should feel a sense
of pride. So too should their parents and area residents.

For the second year in a row, Berea College was ranked the top liberal arts
college in the nation. It also earned the top spot in Washington Monthly's "Best
Bang for the Buck" ranking of colleges in the South.

The good news for those attending college in Madison County doesn't stop there.

Eastern Kentucky University ranks second among all public universities in
Kentucky in the annual "Best Bang for the Buck" rankings, beating out the
University of Kentucky and University of Louisville. Only Murray State
University ranked higher overall in the survey among public state schools.

These rankings aren't just about prestige and wealth either.

Washington Monthly's rankings measure each school's success in three key areas
-- social mobility (admitting and graduating low-income students), research and
Ph.D. production, and community service -- to determine the rankings.

"These values are consistent with Berea's 'Great Commitments' that inform all of
Berea's work and inspire donors to support it," said Berea College President
Lyle Roelofs.

While some schools have a certain prestige or reject a high number of
applicants, it doesn't necessarily mean it is a better school.

Berea College received top marks by Washington Monthly for the college's unique
four-year tuition promise scholarships and the number of students who graduate
with marketable degrees.

Between 80 and 90 percent of Berea students receive federal Pell grants and the
national graduation rates for that demographic averages only in the mid-teens.
By contrast, about two-thirds of Berea's students graduate on time and a healthy
number go on to earn Ph.Ds., as well as other advanced degrees.

EKU's high ranking comes from not only being one of the most affordable in the
state, but for its impressive percentage of employed graduates.

More than 75 percent of EKU degree holders are employed in Kentucky a year after
graduation, the highest percentage among all public four-year universities in
the Commonwealth. Eighty-four percent of EKU graduates with bachelor's degrees
are employed five years post-graduation.

"EKU is committed to helping every student reach his or her full potential,"
said Dr. Eugene Palka, vice president for student success at Eastern.

For students attending college in Madison County, Berea College and Eastern
Kentucky University do just that. They provide a quality education all while
helping students reach their potential.

___ (c)2017 the Richmond Register (Richmond, Ky.) Visit the Richmond Register
(Richmond, Ky.) at richmondregister.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170902-RP-EDITORIAL-A-quality-education-Berea-College
-EKU-receive-high-marks-in-latest-rankings-0902-20170902

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RP


                      Copyright 2017 The Richmond Register

                              278 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              July 25, 2016 Monday

Texas: Rice featured in recent college rankings

LENGTH: 789  words

DATELINE: New York



 Austin: University of Rice, The State of Texas  has issued the following news
release:



   Rice University has been cited in a number of college rankings that have been
reported during the first half of the summer. Below is a sampling.





 * Rice is No. 1 in Texas and No. 4 nationally on Money magazine's list of best
colleges. This ranking features the college and universities that "deliver the
most value -- that is, a great education, at an affordable price, that prepares
students for rewarding careers."



 Logos for various rankings positioned by Willy's Statue.* Rice is No. 16 on
Money's list of 50 most affordable private colleges and No. 33 among the 50
colleges that add the most value, which reflects colleges that help students
perform much better than would be expected from their academic and economic
background, as indicated by graduation rates, earnings and repayment of student
loans.



 * On Forbes' list of best value colleges, Rice is No. 8 among private
universities and No. 20 nationally. The ranking is based on tuition costs,
school quality, graduation success and postgraduation earnings. Rice is No. 4 on
Forbes' list of the top 25 southern schools.



 * When Forbes' best value colleges that specialize in science, technology,
engineering and mathematics (STEM) are ranked, Rice is No. 4 among the top 21
STEM colleges of 2016.



 * Rice is No. 5 on Forbes' list of the 10 most diverse top colleges. Minority
enrollment and graduation rate were used for this ranking.



 * Forbes ranked Rice No. 20 among the 25 largest school endowments.



 * Forbes gave Rice an A-plus for its financial health - a rating received by
only 66 private universities. The grade was based on the balance sheet strength,
operational soundness and other higher education specific health indicators.



 * Forbes ranked Rice No. 30 on its list of top 100 schools whose financial aid
policies make the school a bargain for high-performing, low-income students.



 * Rice is No. 31 on Forbes' 2016 list of America's top colleges. The ranking is
based on postgraduate success, student debt, student satisfaction, graduation
rate and academic success.



 * Rice is No. 26 on Forbes' list of top 60 grateful-grad and
return-on-investment colleges, which factors in private donations and gifts per
student over 10 years and the alumni participation rate averaged over three
years.



 * Rice is No. 18 on Forbes' list of top 25 colleges whose alumni earn the
highest salaries; SmartAsset's comparison of average starting salaries of
recipients of undergraduate degrees ranked Rice No. 1 in Texas and No. 27
nationally.



 * Rice is No. 114 among the top 1,000 universities around the globe for 2016,
according to the Center for World University Rankings. These rankings take into
account the quality of education (measured by the number of alumni who have won
major international awards), the number of alumni who have CEO positions at the
world's top companies, the quality of faculty (measured by the number of
academics who have won major international awards), the number of research
papers in reputable journals and in highly influential journals, the number of
highly cited research papers, the broad impact of the university (based on the
h-index, which measures the productivity and citation impact of a scientist's or
scholar's publications) and the number of international patent filings.



 * College Choice, an online publication dedicated to helping students and their
families find the right college, cited Rice in multiple rankings: No. 13 among
best national research universities, No. 13 among best colleges and universities
for women, No. 20 for best schools for a master's in computer science, No. 25
for best women's studies programs, No. 36 for best bachelor's in engineering
programs and No. 38 for best MBA programs. (The criteria for each ranking varies
and can be found on the accompanying websites.)



 * Rice is No. 16 among the top 50 computer science degrees for international
students, according to College Values Online. The ranking is based on tuition
rates, return on   investment, percentage of international students and
distinguishing characteristics of the university.



 * Business Insider ranked Rice No. 2 on its list of 25 colleges with the best
off-campus dining options. The company Niche compiled data from students about
their opinions the quality of food around campus, the variety of restaurants and
whether restaurants catered to a student lifestyle by providing free Wi-Fi,
staying open late and offering student discounts. Food trucks and restaurants in
the Rice Village area were cited in Rice's ranking.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             May 30, 2012 Wednesday

DCU included in ranking of world's top 50 new universities

BYLINE: SEÁN FLYNN

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 288 words


IN A boost to the stature of higher education in Ireland, Dublin City University
has been ranked among the world s top 50 new universities.

DCU is the only Irish university featured in the prestigious QS World University
Rankings of colleges less than 50 years old. Established as a university in
1989, DCU, formerly the National Institute of Higher Education, is ranked 46th.

The majority of Ireland s seven universities, including UCD and Trinity College
Dublin, are long-established and therefore outside the eligibility criteria.

The QS rankings were published ahead of a Times Higher Education list of top new
universities due to be published later this week. Several Irish colleges,
including NUI Maynooth and DCU, are expected to perform well on that list.

The latest rankings are good news for an underfunded higher education sector in
Ireland which has struggled with cost-cutting and higher staff-student ratios.

In recent years, the ranking of Ireland s two leading universities, TCD and UCD,
has slipped dramatically in both the QS and THE tables. Ireland has no college
inside the top 100 in the world university rankings.

The latest QS rankings show how younger colleges such as DCU have made huge
strides in a relatively short period. The Chinese University of Hong Kong is
ranked first on the list.

DCU president Prof Brian Mac Craith last night welcomed the new ranking.  We are
delighted with this outcome. The inclusion of DCU in this rankings table is a
resounding international endorsement of our quality as a young, dynamic
university which places a strong emphasis on excellence in our teaching,
innovation and research,  he said.

DCU is ranked 326th in the world rankings of all universities published last
year.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      The Free Press (Mankato, Minnesota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           September 11, 2015 Friday

Making sense out of senseless lists

BYLINE: Robb Murray, The Free Press, Mankato, Minn.

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 839 words


Sept. 11--The release this week of U.S. News and World Report's annual rankings
of colleges and universities reminded me of one of my favorite episodes of
"South Park," the great Comedy Central cable network show.

The episode is called "The List," and it goes a little something like this:

The boys, who of course are eternal fourth graders at South Park Elementary,
learn from a frantic Butters Stotch that, in Butters' words, "The girls in our
class have a list that ranks every boy's looks from cutest to ugliest."

This is followed by a conversation that includes worry about who is ranked
where, incredulity that the girls would rank them based strictly on looks alone,
arguing between the boys about who is likely to be last on the list and,
finally, by Kyle Broflovski, ever the voice of reason, asking: "Guys, do you
really care about what a bunch of girls say about how you rank in looks?"

After a moment of awkward silence, the episode cuts to the next scene in which
the boys are shown in the hallway confronting the girl they believe is most
likely to be in possession of The List, Bebe Stevens. They demand to see it, and
Bebe of course refuses. The rest of the episode is a virtual clinic in
insecurity, self loathing, list-rigging, handgun fatalities and, of course,
typical "South Park" hilarity.

U.S. News and World Report's "The List" came out Wednesday. It's just one of
many lists that rank colleges and universities. There is no shortage of
reputable organizations that will tell you in convenient, clickable,
ready-for-the-increasingly-small-attention-span-of-the-average-Amercian
viewer/reader what college is the best. (Or, perhaps more importantly, what
college isn't.)

Beyond U.S. News' annual, highly anticipated rankings, Forbes does a nice one.
The Princeton Review as well. A nonprofit called Niche ranks everything from
academics and food to most attractive girls/guys and Greek life. Money Magazine,
Kiplinger Magazine, the Daily Beast and others have lists. All have their own
way of ranking schools, all seem to put weight behind different factors:
reputation, affordability, night-life, student life, athletics, academics.

Steve Cohen, co-author of "Getting In: The Zinch Guide to College Admission and
Financial Aid in the Digital Age," has literally written the book on getting
into college. His view on rankings?

"The problem is that college reputation has been hijacked by rankings," he wrote
for Forbes recently. "Far too many 'highly ranked' colleges are gaming the
rankings and trying to attract more and more applicants -- when the particular
college is actually a poor 'fit' for many of the kids applying. Colleges want to
attract and reject more kids because, perversely, that 'selectivity' improves a
college's ranking."

Sounds a little like preying on the insecurities of children, right?

A year ago, we were full swing into full mailbox season. Every day when I'd go
home for lunch the mailbox would be stuffed with unwanted mail from dozens of
colleges. And once these college get their hands on a kid's ACT scores, suddenly
the highly selective schools come calling. It's a deluge of marketing materials.
I could have wallpapered every room in my house three times over with just the
booklets, handouts and postcards we got from Macalester College and the
University of Chicago, alone.

And of course, each time a ranking comes out, it forces the schools to answer
questions from local news reporters: "Mmmm ... I see you were ranked 96th last
year in the small liberal arts college category, and now you've plummeted to
97th. How do you explain such abject failure as an institution of higher
learning? What will you say to prospective students who will be demanding
answers? How will you show your face to your alumni? How can you possibly
justify asking for more money from donors given your putrid performance on the
super-duper important U.S. News and World Report rankings?"

Locally, of course, we've got a few institutions that appear in those rankings.
Gustavus Adolphus College and Minnesota State University. Both slipped a bit in
their respective categories. They already know this, but I'll say it anyway:
Those rankings don't really mean much. What matters is making a difference in
the lives of the students who trust you with their future. I've heard so many
Gustavus students tell how much they love their school and how it was the right
fit. And having attended MSU, I can't imagine not having Daryl Thul, Ken
Klotzbach, Renee Berg, Marc Thompson, Jon Ericson, Nathan Phelps, Jason Skog and
so many others in life at the time. It meant the world to me.

Hey, I know ... Let's all get together and make a list that ranks the LISTS in
order of cutest to ugliest! That'll teach 'em.

Robb Murray is the Features Editor for The Free Press. He can be reached at
344-6386 or rmurray@mankatofreepress.com Follow Robb on Twitter @FreePressRobb

___ (c)2015 The Free Press (Mankato, Minn.) Visit The Free Press (Mankato,
Minn.) at www.mankatofreepress.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150911-FP-Making-sense-out-of-senseless-lists-0911-20150911

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FP


                         Copyright 2015 The Free Press

                              281 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             April 10, 2017 Monday
                                 Mumbai Edition

Topsy-turvy college rankings leave students & profs baffled

BYLINE: Hemali Chhapia

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 516 words


Contrary institution rankings by bodies connected with the central government,
one directly , has left millions of students puzzled. Sample this: Gauhati
University as per the ranking chart of one rating body (NIRF) is several places
higher than institutions that had higher ratings by another body (NAAC). Then,
Bharathiar University , which arguably few have heard of, is ranked higher than
the esteemed Tata Institute of Social Sciences in the NIRF's chart. In fact,
rankings of the top 50 universities by the NIRF (National Institutional Ranking
Framework) and the NAAC (National Assessment and Accreditation Council) are
widely divergent.

While NIRF is a methodology adopted by the Union ministry of human resource
development, NAAC is an autonomous body funded by the University Grants
Commission (UGC). The two use different sets of parameters for their ranking
exercises.

Across academia, the NIRF rankings have drawn the accu

sation of not reflecting reality.With institute participation being voluntary
and data self-reporting in nature, followed by no moderation, experts are
questioning the authenticity of the inputs. A section of faculty members at
Mumbai University (ranked by NIRF in the 101150 bracket [India]) questioned the
veracity of the system.They not only looked at NAAC scores (quite high for MU),
but also at the latest QS World University rankings, where MU is

at 145 (Asia) and Pune University at 176. Professors thus wonder how a ranking
of just Indian universities saw MU slip so low. \x93The vast difference in the
two rankings, one an established international system and the other a newly
designed allIndia ranking, seem simply too drastic. Should there not be broad
conformity in ranking outcomes?\x93 said Neeraj Hatekar, head, Mumbai School of
Economics and Public Policy .

A former NAAC director

said he didn't understand the NIRF's results. \x93What does one say? Obviously
the central government has more wisdom,\x93 he mocked. In a throwback to 2009,
many compared this \x93embarrassing\x93 situation to the face-off between NAAC
and the Tandan committee, which blacklisted 44 deemed universities for failing
to meet a range of quality parameters.

NIT Delhi chairman and former IIT Kanpur director Sanjay Dhande said there are
fundamental problems with institute ranks and scores. \x93One, if you want to
draw up rankings, you must ensure that there are common criteria.Two ministry
departments don't speak to each other, little realizing who the ranks are
for--prospective students and their parents who need to decide college A over B.
Also, put up all data that institutes submit online so that students know what
is available at each college.\x93

Ranking lists need to be cohesive, he said. \x93What is the point of putting all
the IITs on top of engineering colleges? It does not make sense to compare a
Changaram Gangaramaffiliated college to an IIT. If a student wants to join an
engineering college in his hometown, there ought to be a rank list. Make
clusters of colleges and then rank them. Each cluster ought to have its own set
of quality parameters.\x93

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                           September 26, 2014 Friday

UF makes top 10 in cost, effect rankings;
It's No. 9 on website's list based on affordability and graduation rates

BYLINE: Meredith Rutland

SECTION: Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 475 words


The University of Florida walks away with top national recognition in a new
college ranking for being easy on students' pocketbooks while consistently
graduating students.

Cost of Learning, a website that tracks the net cost to attend colleges and
universities, released its first college ranking system this week. The
University of Florida ranked No. 9, but other popular colleges in Florida didn't
fare as well in the organization's rankings.

The new rankings followed a similar path to other emerging "best colleges"
lists, such as Kiplinger's Personal Finance and Money magazine's recent rankings
.

Rather than evaluating class size, number of faculty or financial resources, the
new rankings focus mostly on what it costs to attend college and what those
graduates get paid as a result of their degree.

Cost of Learning's rankings were based on six-year graduation rates, diversity,
non-federal student debt and net price of attendance.

Of 1,600 universities and colleges, New College of Florida ranked No. 50,
University of Central Florida ranked No. 178, University of South Florida ranked
No. 226, Florida State University ranked No. 243 and University of West Florida
ranked No. 284.

Locally, the University of North Florida ranked No. 175, and Jacksonville
University ranked No. 1,504.

Jimmy Becker, CEO and founder of Cost of Learning, said it's becoming more
relevant to discuss whether students and their parents can afford to go to
college, and ranking colleges as such will give them the information to make
informed decisions.

"The top schools on our list are doing a good job to graduate students on time,
with little debt and at a reasonable cost, and some are doing so while serving a
very diverse student body," he said.

Becker said UF scored well because it had a high six-year graduation rate - 85
percent - and a fairly low net price - $13,619 for 2011-12, according to
CostOfLearning.com.

UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said UF's tuition remains similar to other Florida
institutions but attracts high-achieving students.

This year's freshman glass had an average GPA of 4.3.

'EXTREMELY PROUD'

"We are extremely proud to be recognized for providing a top-tier educational
experience for students at an affordable price," Sikes said.

Net price takes state and federal scholarships into account, such as the
popular-but-struggling Bright Futures merit-based scholarship program.

UNF had comparable scores in diversity, student debt and net price - its net
price was $11,135 for 2011-12 - but it had a 48 percent six-year graduation
rate, bumping its ranking down, according to the website.

Cost of Learning's top four colleges are military-based institutions that do not
charge admission for students accepted to the academies. No. 1 is the United
States Naval Academy, and No. 2 is the United States Air Force Academy.

Meredith Rutland: (904) 359-4161

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 The Florida Times-Union

                              283 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            March 12, 2015 Thursday

Kansas State University's education, engineering, veterinary medicine graduate
programs named among the nation's best

LENGTH: 429  words

DATELINE: Manhattan


Kansas State University has issued the following news release:

Kansas State University's graduate programs in the College of Engineering,
College of Education and College of Veterinary Medicine are being recognized as
among the best in the nation.

According to the U.S. News & World Report Best Graduate School rankings for
2016, the university's College of Education is No. 88, up from No. 92 in 2015;
College of Engineering is No. 94, up from No. 99 in 2015; and College of
Veterinary Medicine is No. 14, up from No. 19 in 2015.

"The U.S. News & World Report rankings confirm that the College of Education,
College of Engineering and College of Veterinary Medicine have graduate programs
that are respected by our peers and that our graduates are esteemed in their
respective fields," said Kansas State University President Kirk Schulz. "These
graduate programs advance a culture of excellence and help the university move
forward with our goal to become a Top 50 public research university by year
2025."

The rankings are calculated through national surveys, student selectivity,
faculty resources and the institutions' research activity.

"The upward movement in the rankings affirms the quality of the graduate
programming offered by the K-State College of Education," said Debbie Mercer,
dean of the College of Education. "We are proud that people from all professions
including educators, military officers, healthcare, business, law enforcement
and non-profits are turning to the college to advance their careers and
professions."

"It is always exciting to hear of our programs moving up in the rankings of
recognized and respected lists," said Darren Dawson, dean of the College of
Engineering. "Our graduate programs, supported by outstanding faculty and
research projects, are certainly deserving of this."

"The College of Veterinary Medicine has been working on several initiatives to
support the 2025 vision for Kansas State University to become a Top 50 public
research university," said Ralph Richardson, dean of the College of Veterinary
Medicine. "Our improvement in the rankings reflects efforts such as our
dual-degree Doctor of Veterinary Medicine/Doctor of Philosophy program, our
growing number of centers of excellence that focus on improving animal and human
health, the numerous national and international accomplishments of our faculty,
and our commitment to training practicing veterinarians who will be future
leaders in the profession."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Oroville Mercury Register (California)

                             July 14, 2016 Thursday

Chico State included in best colleges list

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 236 words

ABSTRACT

Chico State University is ranked among the nation's best colleges and
universities by Money Magazine.

FULL TEXT

Chico State University has been recognized as one of the top schools in the
nation in Money Magazine's 2016 best colleges ranking.

The rankings, which were published Monday, included 705 U.S. colleges and
universities, with Chico State coming in at No. 95, the highest of any CSU
campus.

The goal of the rankings, according to the magazine's website, is to determine
which of the approximately 2,000 four-year colleges and universities in the U.S.
delivers the best value in terms of quality, affordable education that prepares
students for "rewarding careers."

Money Magazine examined graduation rates, student to faculty ratio, cost of
obtaining a degree, student debt and graduate earnings to determine the rankings
. The schools included have the best overall combination of quality,
affordability and success of graduates and are out-performing their direct
competitors, Money Magazine senior writer Kim Clark said, according to a Chico
State press release.

Last year, Chico State was ranked no. 154 in Money's best colleges rankings. In
Money's ranking of the "50 best public colleges," in the U.S., Chico State is
ranked No. 40. Chico State was listed as No. 8 in Money's "50 colleges that add
the most value," second only to UC Davis among California schools.

The complete rankings can be foundonline.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Oroville Mercury Register
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            April 12, 2017 Wednesday

President gives away awards to Miranda, SRCC and other top institutes at
Rashtrapati Bhavan

BYLINE: Riya Sharma

SECTION: DELHI

LENGTH: 295 words


On Monday, President Pranab Mukerjee released the National Institutional Ranking
Framework (NIRF) report and also awarded the top-ranked institutions at a formal
ceremony. The event, organized by the Ministry of Human Resource Development
(MHRD) at Rashtrapati Bhavan, was attended by Union HRD minister Prakash
Javadekar, M Jagadesh Kumar, VC of Jawaharlal Nehru University, and principals
of all the DU colleges which were ranked on the top. Miranda House was ranked
number one in the countrywide government ranking of educational institutions.

Pratibha Jolly, principal of Miranda House, told us, "Miranda House is a reputed
institution and getting a formal recognition is a wonderful feeling. The ranking
is the result of all the students who have been part of the institution. It is
like a challenge for us. Now, we have to outperform ourselves." Gyantosh Kumar
Jha, principal of Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College, which was ranked number five
under the 'college' category, said that the ranking has put the college in the
limelight. "People did not have a very good perception about the college. But
this ranking has put the college in the limelight, people are getting to know
about us. And it is great motivation for us." RP Rustagi, the principal of Shri
Ram College of Commerce, which was ranked number three in the 'college'
category, added that it was definitely a proud moment for the college. "It also
poses us a challenge, that we have to do better and move forward. As we have
participated in this ranking process this year, we will participate in the
coming years as well and try to keep up the rankings," he said.RP Rustagi,
principal of SRCC, poses with the award and certificate that the college
received at the event

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

This document could not be formatted for delivery. If your delivery request
included other documents, they completed successfully.

                              287 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                              April 3, 2017 Monday

Ranking drop steeply, Univ fails to find place among top institutes of country

LENGTH: 1076 words

DATELINE: JAMMU


JAMMU, April 3 -- Union Ministry of Human Resources Development (HRD) report
card on the educational institutions across the country is out and the A+ NAAC
accredited University of Jammu has again failed to find place among the overall
top institutions of the country.

Among the top 100 universities of the country, Jammu University (JU) has a
reason to celebrate since it has gone one place higher from where it had been
placed in the year 2016. National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) of
Union Ministry of HRD has placed Jammu University at 63rd rank, a step higher.
It was ranked 64th in the rankings for the year 2016. NIRF outlines a
methodology to rank institutions across the country.

Methodology draws from the overall recommendations broad understanding arrived
at by a Core Committee set up by MHRD, to identify the broad parameters for
ranking various universities and institutions. Parameters broadly cover
"Teaching, Learning and Resources," "Research and Professional Practices,"
"Graduation Outcomes," "Outreach and Inclusivity," and "Perception".

According to the ranking released today by the MHRD, Jammu University has gone
step higher but with ranking dropping several steps in three out of the five
parameters. The three parameters where university has suffered badly are the
basic building blocks of a University. According to the NIRF, JU has not able to
improve its academic atmosphere in the last one year. Had it improved, overall
ranking of the University would have been far higher than where it is presently.

University has scored badly on the parameters of Teaching, Learning and
Resources (TLR), Research and Professional Practices (RPC) and Perception (PER).
Its ranking was 47th in the year 2016 in terms of Teaching, Learning and
Resources (TLR) and now, it has dropped to 65th rank with a score of 44.96 from
69.44 in the year 2016. From the 19th rank in Research and Professional
Practices (RPC) with a score of 75.15 in 2016, JU has dropped several notches
down. It has scored just 17.36 and from 19th rank gone to 44th tank in the year
2017.

Though the perception about the university was not good even in the year 2016
yet the University had been ranked 78th in 2016 and in the current year, despite
scoring 0.58, the university has been ranked 157th in the country. This makes it
abundantly clear that perception about the university across the country is not
good despite the present VC Prof. R.D.Sharma being hyperactive on the Facebook
and other social networking websites.

A rank higher than the 2016 ranking has been possible purely because of the
improvement in the parameters of the Graduation Outcomes (GO) and Outreach and
Inclusivity (OI). University had been ranked 170th in the year 2016 with a score
of 5.685 in GO and in the latest ranking, it has scored 71.10 and has been
ranked 44th in the country. On the parameter of Outreach and Inclusivity (OI),
JU has improved its ranking from 202 (2016) to 190 (2017). The score has shown a
little improvement from 30.16 in 2016 to 42.50 in the year 2017.

The fall in the ranking in Teaching, Learning and Resources (TLR), Research and
Professional Practices (RPC) and Perception (PER) does raise questions on the
claims of the Jammu University and its administration of having improved the
educational standards in the last one year. It also puts the NAAC accreditation
of A+ under cloud since improved ranking should have meant university atleast
making a mark among the top 50 universities of the country. But the University
has miserably failed to make a mark at the national level.

"Jammu University should have progressed leaps and bounds but with big fat egos
of those at the helm taking centre-stage, the university has failed to make a
mark at the national level. The atmosphere should have been serene with focus on
work and improving the efficiency. But that is not so. The administration spends
more time in settling scores with non-entities than using all the energies to
take university to the heights of success," said an ex-VC of Jammu University.

He added that the manner in which rankings have gone down does raise questions
on the overall academic atmosphere of the University. "Academics is the core. If
your rankings are going down, then you should start introspecting where the
things are going wrong. If you cannot give up your big fat ego, you won't be
remembered for your contribution or positive things but for your negativity and
non-contribution," added the ex-VC.

National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) was approved by MHRD and
launched by Minister of Human Resource Development (HRD) Prakash Javadekar on
September 29, 2015. This framework outlines a methodology to rank institutions
across the country. The methodology draws from the overall recommendations broad
understanding arrived at by a Core Committee set up by MHRD, to identify the
broad parameters for ranking various universities and institutions.

The parameters broadly cover "Teaching, Learning and Resources," "Research and
Professional Practices," "Graduation Outcomes," "Outreach and Inclusivity," and
"Perception". India Rankings - 2016 based on this framework was first released
on April 4, 2016.

List of Participating Institutes from J&K

1. Central University of Jammu

2. Central University of Kashmir

3. Girdari Lal Dogra Memorial Degree College (GLDDC) Hiranagar

4. Government Degree College (GDC) Bijbehara

5. Govt. College for Women (GCW) M.A. Road, Srinagar

6. Govt. College for Women (GCW) Nawakadal, Srinagar

7. Govt. College for Women (GCW) Gandhi Nagar, Jammu

8. Govt. College of Education (GCE) Canal Road, Jammu

9. Govt. Degree College (GDC) Paloura, Jammu

10. Govt. Degree College (GDC) Billawar, Kathua

11. Govt. Degree College(GDC) Anantnag

12. Govt. Degree College(GDC) Akhnoor, Jammu

13. Govt. Degree College(GDC) Kathua

14. Govt. Degree College(GDC) Ramnagar, Udhampur

15. Govt. Degree College for Women (GCW) Kathua

16. Islamia College of Science and Commerce (ICSC) Srinagar

17. Model Institute of Engineering and Technology (MIET) Jammu

18. National Institute of Technology (NIT) Srinagar

19. Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University (SMVDU) Katra

20. Sri Pratap College(SPC) Srinagar

21. University of Jammu, Jammu Tawi

22. University of Kashmir, Srinagar.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Early Times. For
any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Journal Record (Oklahoma City, OK)

                            February 25, 2008 Monday

Okla. business schools strive to find their niche

BYLINE: Heather Caliendo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 892  words


Some may dispute rankings as biased and inaccurate. Just ask any Sooner or
Cowboy football fan when the BCS reveals its rankings. They may not agree with
the rankings, but like it or not, they have to accept them. The same stands true
with business school rankings.

There is a flood of university rankings hitting the market every year. From U.S.
News and World Report to Entrepreneur magazine, each uses a different method of
defining what makes a top business college. Though they use various ways to
compile the list, several schools make rank every year.

Harvard University, the University of Chicago and the University of Texas all
rank high on several lists. But what about Oklahoma schools? Look hard because
if they do rank, it is at the bottom tier.

Local university representatives and businesses weigh in on the impact of these
rankings to their colleges and the state.

Mel Penn, MBA corporate relations executive at the University of Oklahoma, said
anyone who is involved with placement of MBA students studies the rankings.

He said he thinks rankings are an intricate part of the decision in choosing
schools, but can be hard to grasp.

"Rankings can be a difficult and confusing issue because they are so remarkably
different," he said. "That's what makes business schools crazy because there
isn't one set standard. "

Rankings measure MBA and undergrad business programs and some stretch out to
measure part-time MBAs. Many look to U.S. News and World Report because it is
one of the most established ranking systems. That report measures schools by a
combination of starting salaries, students' entering test scores and assessment
scores by deans and recruiters.

OU's Price College of Business ranked No. 63 on the MBA list, in the bottom
tier.

"We're always striving to be a top 50 school, that's kind of the war zone, and
we are in arm's reach," said Penn.

 U.S. News and World Report ranked Oklahoma State University's undergraduate
business college No. 83 out of 126.

Sara Freedman, dean of OSU's Spears Business College, said there is a concern
that the rankings are not evaluating the complexity of business schools and are
trying to turn them into a one-dimensional idea.

"We are not trying to adjust our programs to their criteria, we are just trying
to do the best job that we can," she said. "If that results in higher rankings,
that's great, but it's not a focus per se. "

Prospective faculty members also evaluate rankings.

Vincent Orza, dean of the Oklahoma City University Meinders School of Business,
said the rankings can tell faculty members if the research institute has strong
ties to a business community.

He said potential faculty members are looking for intellectually stimulating
peers.

"Last thing you want to be is the smartest guy in the room - you want to be
around people who are really good at what they do," Orza said. "The tone of the
faculty can be determined by the quality of school. "

Orza said that while the schools on the rankings can appear at different
numbers, there does not seem to be dramatic change. He said that since the
rankings look at the past, it is hard for a new college to appear on the list.

He said in OCU's case, they continue to look toward the future.

"Those kinds of evaluations are always looking backwards, not looking at where a
school is today," said Orza. "Those are considerations that need to be taken in
account with these listings. "

Reputation seems to a factor in receiving high ranks on the lists.

Mike Mitchell received his undergrad at OSU and his MBA with OU. He said because
of his work with Michael F. Price, he was able to land a job as an analyst in
Connecticut.

He said having a degree from Oklahoma schools is received neither positively nor
negatively by employers on the East Coast. Most people only hear about Oklahoma
schools through football.

Mitchell said he is pleased with the business education he received at OSU and
OU. He said he feels Oklahoma schools are not recognized more nationally because
they get overshadowed by Texas business schools.

"Is the quality of Texas schools better? Probably, but is it thousands of
dollars better - no," he said. "My sense is that both Oklahoma schools are
looking for their niche. I do think they have the opportunity to get their
rankings up. "

Oklahoma employers said they receive copies of the rankings every year.

 Elizabeth Costello, human relations adviser and campus recruiting coordinator
for Devon Energy, said the company recruits extensively at local colleges and
doesn't really focus on the rankings every year.

"We don't live or die by those rankings or make decisions based on where we are
going to recruit based on those rankings," she said. "We kind of stay in the
area of where we have our operations. "

BOK Financial focuses on 10 schools to build a solid recruiting relationship to
bring graduates into their various markets.

Ginger Holley, manager of the accelerated career track program for BOK, said the
rankings do not factor into their recruiting process at all.

She said she sees how it can impact others, especially if Oklahoma schools start
ranking higher on the lists.

"The more companies get interested in those schools - creating a competition for
us - it will definitely have an impact," she said. "The competition for
students' average starting salaries go up - that will definitely have an impact
on us. "

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 1, 2015 Thursday

CSUSB ranked among top colleges by U.S. News & World Report

LENGTH: 926 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 San Bernardino: California State University, San Bernardino has issued the
following news release:



  Cal State San Bernardino has once again been listed among the top colleges and
universities in the western United States by U.S. News & World Report, as it
continues to be recognized as one of the nation's best colleges from other
magazine and education services, which include the Princeton Review, Forbes and
Money Magazine.

 CSUSB is once again listed among the top colleges and universities in the
western United States by U.S. News & World Report as it continues to be
recognized as one of the nation's best colleges from other magazine and
education services, including the Princeton Review, Forbes and Money Magazine.
Photo: Corinne McCurdy/CSUSB



 CSUSB is once again listed among the top colleges and universities in the
western United States by U.S. News & World Report as it continues to be
recognized as one of the nation's best colleges from other magazine and
education services, including the Princeton Review, Forbes and Money Magazine.
Photo: Corinne McCurdy/CSUSB



 The U.S. News & World Report rankings, which are considered one of the most
influential and anticipated annual recognitions for colleges and universities
throughout the nation, ranked CSUSB 69th among all western universities for
regional public institutions that provide a full range of undergraduate and
master's degree programs.



 The U.S. News & World Report rankings were announced in the 2016 America's Best
Colleges guidebook, which was released online on Sept. 9. The West region
includes institutions from 15 states: Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado,
Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Oregon, Texas, Utah,
Washington and Wyoming. The rankings are available at the U.S. News website's
Best Colleges Web page.



 The U.S. News rankings focus on academic excellence, with schools ranked up to
16 measures of academic quality. The rankings emphasize outcomes, with
graduation and retention rates carrying the most weight in the methodology at 30
percent. The top schools all have high six-year graduation rates and strong
freshman retention rates.



 In the Princeton Review, CSUSB was selected to the &ldquo;Best of the
West&rdquo; section of the review's 2016 &ldquo;Best Colleges: Region by
Region.&rdquo; It marks the 12th consecutive year the university has been named
to the list, which ranks 123 institutions of higher learning, including six
other California State University campuses. The list can be found at the Best
380 Colleges 2016 website.



 The Princeton Review rankings are based on surveys of 136,000 students (average
358 per campus) at the 380 colleges in the book in 2014-15 and/or the previous
two school years. The survey (http://survey.review.com) asks students 80
questions about their school's academics, administration, student body, and
themselves. The ranking methodology (http://www.princetonreview.com/
college-rankings/how-it-works) uses a five-point Likert scale to convert
qualitative student assessments into quantitative data for school-to-school
comparisons.



 Forbes ranked CSUSB as 80th in the West and 415th overall of the 650 of
America's Top Colleges. The Forbes list focuses on the return on investment:
&ldquo;What are students getting out of college?&rdquo;



 Forbes partnered with the Center for College Affordability and Productivity to
determine and rank the top colleges in five general categories: student
satisfaction, post graduate success, student debt, graduation rate, academic
success and a three-year average of the schools' overall scores from previous
Forbes rankings. See the Forbes rankings at its &ldquo;America's Top Colleges
&rdquo; website.



 Money Magazine ranked CSUSB among the &ldquo;Best Colleges in the
Nation.&rdquo; Under the rankings, CSUSB received an &ldquo;A&rdquo; for value
added. The university was ranked 268 overall on the magazine's list of 736 of
the nation's best colleges and universities, which was culled from the
approximately 1,500 institutions in the United States.



 The MONEY Magazine rankings were based on 21 factors in three categories:



     The quality of education focusing on the six-year graduation rate, peer
quality, instructor quality and the value added graduation rate;

     Affordability focusing on the net price of a degree, debt--taking account
both student debt upon graduation and parent federal loans--the student loan
default risk, the value-added student loan default risk and the affordability
for low- and moderate- income students;

     And outcomes focusing on graduates' earnings; earnings adjusted by majors;
value added earnings; career services and the market value of alumni skills.



 The complete rankings are posted online at &ldquo;The Best Colleges for Your
Money.&rdquo; For a full description of the methodology, see &ldquo;How MONEY
Ranked Colleges: An In-Depth Look&rdquo; on Money.com.



 Set in the foothills of the beautiful San Bernardino Mountains, CSUSB is a
preeminent center of intellectual and cultural activity in inland Southern
California. Celebrating its 50th anniversary in 2015, CSUSB serves more than
20,000 students each year and graduates about 4,000 students annually.



 For more information, contact the CSUSB Office of Strategic Communication at
(909) 537-5007 and visit news.csusb.edu.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 1, 2015 Thursday

CSUSB ranked among top colleges by U.S. News & World Report

LENGTH: 926 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 San Bernardino: California State University, San Bernardino has issued the
following news release:



  Cal State San Bernardino has once again been listed among the top colleges and
universities in the western United States by U.S. News & World Report, as it
continues to be recognized as one of the nation's best colleges from other
magazine and education services, which include the Princeton Review, Forbes and
Money Magazine.

 CSUSB is once again listed among the top colleges and universities in the
western United States by U.S. News & World Report as it continues to be
recognized as one of the nation's best colleges from other magazine and
education services, including the Princeton Review, Forbes and Money Magazine.
Photo: Corinne McCurdy/CSUSB



 CSUSB is once again listed among the top colleges and universities in the
western United States by U.S. News & World Report as it continues to be
recognized as one of the nation's best colleges from other magazine and
education services, including the Princeton Review, Forbes and Money Magazine.
Photo: Corinne McCurdy/CSUSB



 The U.S. News & World Report rankings, which are considered one of the most
influential and anticipated annual recognitions for colleges and universities
throughout the nation, ranked CSUSB 69th among all western universities for
regional public institutions that provide a full range of undergraduate and
master's degree programs.



 The U.S. News & World Report rankings were announced in the 2016 America's Best
Colleges guidebook, which was released online on Sept. 9. The West region
includes institutions from 15 states: Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado,
Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Oregon, Texas, Utah,
Washington and Wyoming. The rankings are available at the U.S. News website's
Best Colleges Web page.



 The U.S. News rankings focus on academic excellence, with schools ranked up to
16 measures of academic quality. The rankings emphasize outcomes, with
graduation and retention rates carrying the most weight in the methodology at 30
percent. The top schools all have high six-year graduation rates and strong
freshman retention rates.



 In the Princeton Review, CSUSB was selected to the &ldquo;Best of the
West&rdquo; section of the review's 2016 &ldquo;Best Colleges: Region by
Region.&rdquo; It marks the 12th consecutive year the university has been named
to the list, which ranks 123 institutions of higher learning, including six
other California State University campuses. The list can be found at the Best
380 Colleges 2016 website.



 The Princeton Review rankings are based on surveys of 136,000 students (average
358 per campus) at the 380 colleges in the book in 2014-15 and/or the previous
two school years. The survey (http://survey.review.com) asks students 80
questions about their school's academics, administration, student body, and
themselves. The ranking methodology (http://www.princetonreview.com/
college-rankings/how-it-works) uses a five-point Likert scale to convert
qualitative student assessments into quantitative data for school-to-school
comparisons.



 Forbes ranked CSUSB as 80th in the West and 415th overall of the 650 of
America's Top Colleges. The Forbes list focuses on the return on investment:
&ldquo;What are students getting out of college?&rdquo;



 Forbes partnered with the Center for College Affordability and Productivity to
determine and rank the top colleges in five general categories: student
satisfaction, post graduate success, student debt, graduation rate, academic
success and a three-year average of the schools' overall scores from previous
Forbes rankings. See the Forbes rankings at its &ldquo;America's Top Colleges
&rdquo; website.



 Money Magazine ranked CSUSB among the &ldquo;Best Colleges in the
Nation.&rdquo; Under the rankings, CSUSB received an &ldquo;A&rdquo; for value
added. The university was ranked 268 overall on the magazine's list of 736 of
the nation's best colleges and universities, which was culled from the
approximately 1,500 institutions in the United States.



 The MONEY Magazine rankings were based on 21 factors in three categories:



     The quality of education focusing on the six-year graduation rate, peer
quality, instructor quality and the value added graduation rate;

     Affordability focusing on the net price of a degree, debt--taking account
both student debt upon graduation and parent federal loans--the student loan
default risk, the value-added student loan default risk and the affordability
for low- and moderate- income students;

     And outcomes focusing on graduates' earnings; earnings adjusted by majors;
value added earnings; career services and the market value of alumni skills.



 The complete rankings are posted online at &ldquo;The Best Colleges for Your
Money.&rdquo; For a full description of the methodology, see &ldquo;How MONEY
Ranked Colleges: An In-Depth Look&rdquo; on Money.com.



 Set in the foothills of the beautiful San Bernardino Mountains, CSUSB is a
preeminent center of intellectual and cultural activity in inland Southern
California. Celebrating its 50th anniversary in 2015, CSUSB serves more than
20,000 students each year and graduates about 4,000 students annually.



 For more information, contact the CSUSB Office of Strategic Communication at
(909) 537-5007 and visit news.csusb.edu.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                             April 24, 2009 Friday

U. and BYU rank high on U.S. News list

BYLINE: Wendy Leonard Deseret News

LENGTH: 711 words


Law schools in Utah continued to battle their competition in the past year,
while other programs at the state's top schools also placed high on one of the
nation's most popular rankings lists. In its 25th anniversary year, U.S. News &
World Report's America's Best Colleges has expanded into a multimedia resource
and has managed to pit 1,400 accredited public, private, international and local
colleges and universities against each other. Also included is the publication's
2010 Graduate School rankings. Among them, Brigham Young University's J. Reuben
Clark Law School climbed five spots up from last year's rankings, to No. 41,
still among the top 50 schools.

"We are pleased to be recognized among the top quarter of law schools in the
country," said James D. Gordon, interim dean of BYU's law school. "Our students
continue to be among the most qualified in the nation, and we are pleased that
their passage rates on bar examinations are high." The S.J. Quinney College of
Law at the University of Utah also landed in the top 50, moving up six spots to
No. 45. It has been ranked in the top tier of law schools every year since the
rankings began. "The rankings reflect the school's achievements along most every
index that the methodology weighs, including selectivity in admissions,
improvement in reputation, a lower student-faculty ratio, success in career
placement and an increase in resources per student," said U. Dean Hiram Chodosh.
Other U. programs making advances in this year's rankings include the English
program, moving up nine spots to No. 63, psychology, which climbed 41 notches to
No. 66, and the College of Education improved two places, coming in 71st overall
this year. "We are thrilled that our research productivity and graduate training
success are being recognized," said U. psychology chairwoman Cynthia Berg. BYU's
Marriott School of Business tied with its highest-ever ranking in the system,
landing at 29th overall, same as last year. Dean Gary Cornia said that is a
result of the quality of students there, adding that "the best measure of
success is the influence for good our graduates have on their organizations and
on society." High marks were given to BYU's accounting program, even though it
slipped from a 2008 fourth-place ranking to No. 8 this year. Other programs at
BYU that made the list include chemical, mechanical and electrical engineering,
speech language pathology, nursing and social work, which all ranked in the top
100. Harvard, Princeton, Yale, MIT and Stanford topped off the list of national
universities. BYU was lauded as the nation's 113th best school, with the U.
slightly lower in the top 200, at No. 137. Westminster College and Weber State
University received high rankings among master's degree-offering schools in the
West, landing at No. 19 and No. 53, respectively. New to the publication this
year are two categories, one of them ranking the "Up-and-Coming" schools while
the other touts high school counselor picks. The two new slots are available
only in the magazine's print edition, due out on Sept. 1, while the traditional
five categories ranking the best national universities, best liberal arts
colleges, best historically black colleges, "Best College for Your Buck," and
"A+ Schools for B Students" are currently available online at usnews.com/
college. Among the roughly 100,000 searchable pages are various academic
calendars, a video gallery complete with profiles of eight students documenting
their college admissions experience, school forums and expert columns revealing
tips for getting into a school of choice. "With so many students and families
relying on the college rankings for their higher education research, we're
always working to find new ways to demystify the college search," said U.S. News
Editor Brian Kelly. Schools are ranked based on a set of 15 indicators of
excellence including peer assessment, graduation and retention rates, faculty
resources, student selectivity, financial resources, alumni giving and
graduation rate performance. Highlights of the grad school rankings are expected
to be included in the May issue of U.S. News, available on newsstands Tuesday
along with the America's Best Graduate Schools guide book. E-MAIL:
wleonard@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

                              292 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 5, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Putting a Curious Eye on a High School Ranking System

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN.

Samuel G. Freedman is a professor of journalism at Columbia University. His
e-mail is sgfreedman@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ON EDUCATION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1121 words


That venerable sage, the funk musician Rick James, once said, ''R&B stands for
rhythm and business.'' His aphorism is worth remembering while paging through
this week's issue of U.S. News & World Report, which includes the magazine's
first ranking of high schools.

Whatever this list represents in terms of journalism or public service, it must
be understood also as an exercise in business, in extending the U.S. News brand,
in helping it survive in a financial and technological climate hostile to news
magazines. Having devoted annual issues to ranking colleges, graduate schools
and hospitals, U.S. News has now brought the same approach to secondary
education.

The magazine's executives frankly acknowledge their economic motivations. In a
recent interview, the publisher, Kerry F. Dyer, and the editor, Brian Kelly,
referred to the high school ranking as part of a ''franchise.''

But Mr. Kelly also rose to the journalistic defense of his magazine, speaking of
the ''church-state separation'' between the editorial and business functions. Of
the college ranking, which U.S. News began in 1983, he said, ''The origin was
not as a commercial tool but journalistic curiosity.''

The executives also said that they hoped the ranking would inspire a public
conversation about what makes a good school. But the ranking raises a more
fundamental, disturbing issue. The ranking is a centerpiece of what we might
call the Anxiety Industry, the same booming market that includes test-prep
classes and private college-admissions consultants. Nobody should feel exactly
sanguine about that reality.

''I thought it's admirable the way the rankings were done,'' said David F.
Labaree, the associate dean of the Stanford University School of Education.
''But if U.S. News's niche is rankings, that's a little disquieting. It's in the
magazine's interest to push rankings into every sector to expand its niche. And
that exacerbates the rankings mania that's harming education at all levels.''

You could dismiss Mr. Labaree as an egghead purist, except that people who make
their living coldbloodedly analyzing the marketplace speak in similar terms
about the magazine's interest in ranking high schools.

''U.S. News has made the decision to basically pin its business model on
rankings,'' said Mark M. Edmiston, a managing director of Admedia Partners, an
investment banking company. ''They've basically given up the battle of competing
with Time and Newsweek directly and carved out this niche of being the ranker.''

In a capitalist society, of course, there is nothing inherently wrong with
selling information for profit. As both a journalist and a journalism professor,
I have to root for serious publications to succeed rather than fail. Peddling
academic rankings is not peddling rumors about Britney Spears.

Nor can you blame U.S. News for filling the vacuum left by the absence of any
meaningful federal standard for comparing schools. The No Child Left Behind law
let each state set its own standards for academic proficiency. The wildly
variable benchmarks, especially in chronically weak states, too often subscribed
to the Limbo Rock Rule: How low can you go?

The factors the ranking used appear sensible and supple -- overall student
achievement, academic performance of the most disadvantaged students, college
readiness as reckoned by results on Advanced Placement tests.

The resulting lists of 100 ''gold medal'' schools include plenty of
knock-me-over-with-a-feather nonsurprises, like Stuyvesant and Boston Latin. The
top-rated school, Thomas Jefferson in Alexandria, Va., admits only a fraction of
applicants from a five-county area and has extensive financial support from
regional high-tech companies. There are also some intriguing discoveries like
Hidalgo High School in southern Texas, a heavily immigrant, entirely Hispanic
school with a 94 percent graduation rate.

AND yet -- and yet -- it is hard not to get a little queasy hearing Mr. Dyer
explain how the ranking is the magazine's franchise so that, he said, when you
think high school ranking, you think U.S. News,  not only the particular issue
of the magazine but also the Web site content and spinoff books. It is the
formula U.S. News has perfected with its college ranking.

''What's amazing,'' Mr. Dyer said, ''is how the average consumer knows that at
12:01 a.m. on a Friday in August, the college rankings are being released.''

Indeed, Mr. Dyer continued, within 72 hours of the release this year, the U.S.
News Web site received 10 million page views. Generally, it has about 500,000
views a month for the year that the ranking and related content stay online.

Eighty percent of the visitors, Mr. Dyer said, directly enter the ranking
section of the Web site rather than arriving through the magazine's home page,
where they might have read something about politics or the arts. Such
single-minded pursuit of data is considered desirable in the media business; the
term of approval for such a coveted trove of information is a ''vertical.''

Even in the antiquated form of print on paper, the U.S. News college ranking is
a proven draw. A typical college-ranking issue, Mr. Dyer said, sells 45,000
copies on the newsstand, 50 percent more than a routine issue. In book form,
U.S. News sells hundreds of thousands of copies a year of its various college
guides. And every year, there is a new crop of fretful high school seniors and
high-strung parents.

''This,'' Mr. Dyer said, ''is a continually renewing market.''

Mr. Kelly, the magazine's editor, added, ''These things are annuities.''

The high school issue carried roughly 45 pages of advertising, about 25 percent
above the seasonal average, Mr. Dyer said. America Online put the U.S. News list
on its home page. On the three days that the ranking and 2,000 pages of
supporting material were posted on the magazine's Web site, it received five
million page views, including 500,000 unique visitors.

Mr. Kelly said expanding the ranking into high schools was ''not an ad-sales
consideration but a branding consideration.'' Isn't an advertiser, though,
primarily attracted by the brand?

A few days before the issue with the high school ranking was released, Mr. Dyer
was riding on a commuter train into Manhattan, and overheard two fathers talking
about where their children were applying to college. It was, for the publisher,
a confirmation that U.S. News was offering the right product.

''We've expanded the footprint of the brand,'' he said. ''We have more people
interacting with content than in the history of the magazine. And that, as
Martha Stewart would say, is a good thing.''

Too bad Rick James, who died in 2004, isn't around to offer a more skeptical
opinion.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID SUTER)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company

                              293 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           September 19, 2017 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 SOONER EDITION

CORRECTION

BYLINE: Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 79 words


Local. In a Saturday article on the US News & World Report college rankings,
Swarthmore College's ranking among liberal arts colleges was incorrect.
Swarthmore is tied for third in the ranking.

Local. A story in Saturday's editions about the arrest of self-avowed white
supremacist Hardy Lloyd listed an incorrect place of residence for him. He lives
in Dormont.

Puzzles.Last week's answers to The New York Times crossword on Sunday were
incorrect. The correct answers are below.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 19, 2017



CORRECTION: Local. In a Saturday article on the US News & World Report college
rankings, Swarthmore College's ranking among liberal arts colleges was
incorrect. Swarthmore is tied for third in the ranking.

Local. A story in Saturday's editions about the arrest of self-avowed white
supremacist Hardy Lloyd listed an incorrect place of residence for him. He lives
in Dormont.

Puzzles. Last week's answers to The New York Times crossword on Sunday were
incorrect. The correct answers are below.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.

                              294 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                           September 8, 2016 Thursday

Magazine ranks Trinity as top CCCU member among national universities

BYLINE: Trinity International University

SECTION: SUBMITTED CONTENT; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 430 words


Deerfield, Ill. -- In its 2016 college rankings issue, Washington Monthly ranks
Trinity International University higher among national universities than any
other institution with full membership in the Council for Christian Colleges and
Universities.

The magazine's editors started their ranking process this year with 1,863 U.S.
colleges that are listed in the U.S. Department of Education's Integrated
Postsecondary Education Data System and are listed in the Carnegie Basic
Classifications.

In all, 742 colleges and universities made the 2016 Washington Monthly rankings,
including 303 schools in the national universities Carnegie classification, 239
liberal arts colleges, 100 master's universities, and 100 baccalaureate
colleges. The rankings can be found in the September/October issue released late
this month.

Because Trinity grants a large number of graduate degrees, its Carnegie
classification places it in the largest group with research universities such as
Stanford and Harvard, which ranked first and second respectively on the
magazine's new list.

Trinity is 133rd in that 2016 national universities ranking, ahead of
institutions such as Nebraska, Pittsburgh, Auburn, Oregon, Miami of Ohio, and
Penn State.

Seven other CCCU full members also received Washington Monthly rankings in the
national universities category: Regent (164th), Azusa (181st), Seattle Pacific
(204th), Trevecca Nazarene (248th), Dallas Baptist (288th), Lipscomb (291st),
and Biola (296th).

Editors say the rankings are based on three equally weighted categories: social
mobility, research, and service.

Social mobility includes graduation rate, percentage of first-generation college
students, net price, Pell Grant performance, and loan repayments. The research
category factors in expenditures, Bachelor-to-Ph.D. progression, faculty awards,
and faculty national academy memberships. The service category includes
involvement in the Peace Corps and ROTC, the percentage of federal work-study
funds spent on service, and service to the community.

Trinity's highest category rankings were in academic performances of Pell Grant
recipients (4th), community service (26th), student loan repayment rate (49th),
graduation rate performance (69th), and the academic performances of
first-generation college students (73rd).

"Rankings are often confusing, and each one carries its own biases," Trinity
President David S. Dockery said. "We will never draw our institutional identity
from these evaluations, but we are pleased by the strong affirmation Trinity
receives in the 2016 Washington Monthly rankings."

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              295 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Times of Oman

                              April 3, 2017 Monday

Six Delhi University colleges among India's top 10 in ministry's ranking

LENGTH: 391 words


Six Delhi University colleges have made it to the list of top 10 colleges in the
country under a national ranking released by the Human Resource Development
ministry. Photo - File

New Delhi: Six Delhi University colleges have made it to the list of top 10
colleges in the country under a national ranking released by the Human Resource
Development ministry, with Miranda House being ranked at number one.

Loyola College (2) in Chennai, Bishop Heber College (4) in Tiruchirapalli in
Tamil Nadu, St. Xavier's College (6) in Kolkata and Women's Christian College
(10) in Chennai also featured in the top 10 list.

Besides Miranda House, the other Delhi University (DU) colleges in the list are
Shri Ram College of Commerce (3), Atma Ram Sanatan Dharm College (5), Lady Shri
Ram College for Women (6), Dyal Singh College (8) and Deen Dayal Upadhyay
College (9).

The list announced by HRD Minister Prakash Javadekar here on Monday has been
prepared on basis of a survey of "general degree" colleges under the National
Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). Colleges have been ranked for the first
time.

The list is full of surprises with DU's Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College being
ranked above the prestigious Lady Shri Ram College for Women and Kolkata's St.
Xavier's College. The list has no mention of prominent DU colleges including St
Stephen's, Ramjas and Hindu College.

Explaining the trend, Javadekar told reporters, "The list has only considered
those colleges which had applied for the process. So, even if a college is the
most prestigious one and has not participated in it, there will be no suo motu
ranking for it."

"Also, the ranks have been awarded on basis of a detailed analysis of the data
submitted by the universities or colleges themselves. For instance, a college
may have had good placements but may not have filed a high number of patents. So
all these factors have been kept in mind," he added. Other DU colleges which
have made it to the top 100 list are Keshav Mahavidyalya (15), Shaheed Bhagat
Singh College (Evening) (34) and Sri Guru Nanak Dev Khalsa College (46).

Next Page >  Muscat Media Group

http://imgs.syndigate.info/42/89/95/149124459969.jpg

Six Delhi University colleges have made it to the list of top 10 colleges in the
country under a national ranking released by the Human Resource Development
ministry. Photo - File

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 89


     Copyright 2017 Times of Oman - Muscat Press & Publishing House (SAOC)
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Christian Science Monitor

                            April 12, 2007, Thursday

College presidents plan 'U.S. News' rankings boycott

BYLINE: Ben Arnoldy Staff writer of The Christian Science Monitor

SECTION: USA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 950 words

DATELINE: OAKLAND, CALIF.


A revolt is brewing among college presidents against the influential college
rankings put out each year by U.S. News & World Report.

Dozens of schools have recently refused to fill out surveys used to calculate
ranks, and efforts are now afoot for a collective boycott.

Colleges have complained in the past about the rankings. But recent events have
rallied opposition, including the tying of presidential pay to ranking at
Arizona State University and accusations by the president of Sarah Lawrence
College that the magazine threatened to use hocus-pocus data to stand in for
average SAT scores at the school.

At the heart of the matter: A college degree is increasingly expensive, and
students and parents want to make informed decisions. But educators worry that
the rankings have made college a commodity, creating a false impression that
schools can be easily compared and stressing out students who want only the
"best" schools.

"This increasing interest in measuring everything - these so-called
science-based measures of [educational] outcomes and the like - seems to me to
be so misguided that it's now captured the imagination of the leadership in
higher education," says Christopher Nelson, president of St. John's College in
Annapolis, Md., who heads an association of 124 prestigious liberal arts
schools. "This is a bad way of talking about an education. [Students] aren't
consumers shopping for a product."

The boycott of the U.S. News rankings could be extended in coming weeks as a
draft letter makes the rounds of academia. The letter, formulated by a dozen
college presidents and an education activist, calls for others to join them in
neither filling out the magazine's survey form nor touting rankings in marketing
materials.

The "reputational survey," as it's called, asks college administrators to rank
the quality of hundreds of schools on a one to five scale. The data - which
critics call a "beauty contest" - account for 25 percent of the overall U.S.
News rankings.

Several college presidents suggested that they personally could evaluate only
five to 10 schools - a far cry from the hundreds on the list. "We know each
other through reputation, but that's different than having the kind of intimate
knowledge you should have when you are making a ranking," says Robert Weisbuch,
president of Drew University in Madison, N.J., who plans to sign the letter.

The intent of the administrator survey is to capture the opinions of those who
are experts inside the industry, says Brian Kelly, executive editor of U.S.
News. The survey asks them to rank only those schools with which they are
familiar. If that number is only five, says Mr. Kelly, "well, gee, maybe you
need to know some more about your competitors."

Last year, 70 percent of the reputational surveys were returned, according to
the magazine. If large numbers of schools stopped complying, Kelly says the
magazine could query department chairmen, high school guidance counselors, and
other knowledgeable sources.

"The reason the rankings are popular is that there is a great hunger among
consumers to have some tangible data to use. Some universities are unwilling to
give people the information they want," says Kelly, whose organization claims to
use 50,000 pieces of data to derive the rankings. "It's not enough to say that
this is an unquantifiable, nuanced world, particularly when you are charging
people [in some cases] $50,000 a year."

Students are desperate for honest, third-party comparisons, agrees Steven
Goodman, a college admissions consultant in Washington. "In a perfect world,
there would be no need for any rankings because universities would be completely
forthcoming about their strengths and weaknesses."

College presidents emphasize that they do provide information to the public
through the US Department of Education and their own websites.

But some expressed reservations about what happens when no data are available in
particular categories.

When Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville, N.Y., stopped using SAT scores in its
admissions process, U.S. News lost a key data point in its rankings formula. The
school's president, Michele Tolela Myers, wrote a newspaper opinion piece saying
that U.S. News told her it might be forced to create a number by taking the
average of other schools' scores and then docking Sarah Lawrence by one standard
deviation.

Kelly calls the incident a "miscommunication" and says his magazine will not use
that method for the SAT score.

However, several presidents say the dust-up helped galvanize this year's
opposition to the survey, a movement joined by Dr. Myers.

There's nothing wrong with sharing information, says Myers, but assigning
weights to that information is "totally arbitrary." Students and parents may
have different priorities, including location, diversity, and strength of a
certain department - and their weights are bound to differ from those assigned
by U.S. News.

Kelly says the magazine is working on employing technology that would allow
users to select their own weights.

Colleges, meanwhile, are rethinking what metrics are useful and how to
standardize them across higher education.

The US Department of Education, too, is pushing schools to provide more data on
outputs, such as the number of students who go on to pass professional licensing
exams or get advanced degrees.

"I'm hopeful that whatever comes out of this [boycott] sends different kinds of
signals and messages to students, so they realize that when they are in high
school, they can follow their curiosity," says Lloyd Thacker, lead author of the
circulating letter and head of The Education Conservancy, a nonprofit in
Portland, Ore.

(c) Copyright 2007. The Christian Science Monitor

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 The Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                           September 12, 2011 Monday

University intakes - Education must mean employability

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 503 words


If a college or university is dropping in the international rankings, should
serious questions be asked?

For instance, Trinity College Dublin has dropped from around 50th place to 65th
in the latest ranking of the QS Stars programme, which is a system that
evaluates universities using a broad set of criteria, such as faculty-student
radio, student performance on standardised examination, and quality of research
output.

The rating allows educational institutions to spotlight their strengths and
specialist areas via a system of awarded recognition. University College Dublin
fell from 89th in 2009 to 114th in 2010 and 134th this year. University College
Cork, on the other hand, has improved its ranking to 181st.

Some of those figures might seem disturbing.

But any college in the top 200 is actually in the top 2% of the 10,000
universities worldwide, so those figures would suggest that this small country
is punching well above our weight.

Indeed, Ireland has more colleges in the top 5% than Austria, Denmark or Norway.

Some people argue that the ranking process tends to become exaggerated.

The drop in the rankings of most Irish colleagues has been attributed to a 6%
cut in staff, while there has been a 12% increase in the number of students. It
is important, however, that the ranking should never be allowed to become more
important that the quality of education being provided.

The ranking is heavily weighted towards colleges with Nobel Prize winners and
academics who publish in the more prestigious journals, but frequently such
people are so wrapped up in their own professional interests that they do not
make good teachers. The real emphasis should be on quality education, and a
significant part of the analysis of any college or university should be based on
the employability of its graduates.

UCC's five-star rating overall is largely attributed to its top marks for
research, infrastructure, internationalisation, innovation and life sciences,
but it received just three stars for teaching and engagement.

This should highlight that there is no room for complacency.

The college has not been in a position to spend as much as it might like on
marketing or advertising, either domestically or internationally, so it ranking
has become all the more important.

There are around 3,000 foreign students at UCC, paying the university around EUR
19 million annually.

The foreign students make up 13% of the college's population, and there are
plans to increase this to 20%.

Overseas students should be welcomed, not only for their financial contribution
to the university and the community, but also for helping to provide the blend
of cultures that is an important part of education.

Places for the extra overseas students must be provided without excluding Irish
students.

Ultimately, the Irish taxpayer is paying for the preponderance of our system of
education.

Everyone wins, however, if the extra fees from an increased number of foreign
students make a university education available to more Irish students.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    Times-News (Burlington, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             May 19, 2011 Thursday

CHARMING CAMPUS

BYLINE: Molly Mcgowan, Times-News, Burlington, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 444 words


May 19--ELON -- The reviews are in -- Elon University is the prettiest campus in
the country.

According to a ranking of "The 50 Most Amazing College Campuses" compiled by The
Best Colleges website, Elon beats out other area schools like Wake Forest
University, Duke University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
as well as a few Ivy League schools, for the title of prettiest campus.

The Best Colleges "reviews publicly available data and then produces independent
ranking assessments of colleges in various disciplines," according to the
website. The site has created lists of the best online colleges, top film
schools, and best online MBA programs using public data, and polled recent
college graduates for the latest ranking of "The 50 Most Amazing College
Campuses."

According to the Best Colleges website, "The wooded grounds of Elon were
originally designated as a botanical garden but have since been converted into a
beautiful campus for a prestigious university."

Georgina Oram, a rising senior at Elon and a campus guide, heard about the
latest ranking when students began posting the news on their Facebook pages.

"It wasn't really surprising," said Oram. "On tours I always tell my families,
'When you're somewhere pretty, you feel happier.'"

After accessing the list of schools at thebestcolleges. org, Oram said she knew
Elon had other similar high rankings by more prestigious organizations, and
checked out U.S. News & World Report and Princeton Review rankings.

Elon ranks No. 2 in the U.S. News "2011 Regional University South" list, No. 1
in its "Up-and-Coming Schools, Regional Universities (South)" list, and appears
on its unranked "Senior Capstone," "Study Abroad" and "Learning Communities"
lists.

The Princeton Review also listed Elon as one of the 373 "Best Colleges" in this
year's college guide, and was No. 1 on its "runs like butter," list, which was
most impressive to Oram.

She said it's exciting for the school to be recognized for its smooth
orchestration.

And while school officials are quicker to boast about rankings from widely known
sources like Newsweek-Kaplan and Kiplinger's Personal Finance magazine, Director
of University Relations Dan Anderson said campus aesthetics is "one of Elon's
tremendous assets," and any recognition of that"reflects many years of careful
planning."

To see more of the Times-News, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.thetimesnews.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Times-News, Burlington, N.C.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110519-BT-CHARMING-CAMPUS-0519-20110519

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                           Copyright 2011 Times-News

                              299 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Watertown Daily Times (New York)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           November 24, 2007 Saturday

Clarkson University President Collins supports annual college rankings

BYLINE: Alex Jacobs, Watertown Daily Times, N.Y.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 669 words


Nov. 24--POTSDAM -- Clarkson University President Anthony G. Collins has thrown
his voice into the national debate over U.S. News & World Report's annual
college rankings.

He has written an op-ed piece titled "Boycotting Rankings is not the Answer,"
which ran in this week's Chronicle of Higher Education.

"The article says that you can't have your cake and eat it too," Mr. Collins
said Wednesday. "How can we sit here and be critical of a system that measures
our own institution when we teach our students and expect that they will want to
achieve success and measure that success against some kind of benchmark?"

Officials at St. Lawrence University, Canton, have criticized the magazine's
ranking system, but the university still takes part. Paul Smith's College in
Paul Smiths has stopped contributing to the yearly surveys altogether, though it
is still ranked according to projections.

In his commentary, Mr. Collins points out that while some colleges question the
magazine's methods, many use the same data weighted in the rankings to monitor
their own performance.

Mr. Collins adds that since competition is an intrinsic part of the work world
that universities prepare their students for, it's hard to justify a boycott of
an independent consumer-driven assessment of the institutions' own performance.

"Like the corporations that hire our students, we must be willing to be
evaluated against others," he writes in the article. "We intend to continue our
approach wherever we happen to rank."

Mr. Collins received help in researching and writing the editorial from Kelly O.
Chezum, assistant to the president for strategic advancement.

"In the corporate world, you get product comparisons, and there are always going
to be features you're not trying to be compared on, but you're rated on anyway,"
Ms. Chezum said. "That's what we're trying to convey. This is just one data
point among many that students look at in their search process."

Clarkson was ranked No. 124 in the top tier of national universities. With only
3,000 students, Clarkson is one of the smallest included in the top tier, and
ranks in the top 60 of private universities. U.S. News also dubbed the college
"An A+ School for B Students."

Mr. Collins said that while he disagrees with the implication that Clarkson has
"B" students -- half of incoming freshmen were in the top 10 percent of their
high school class -- he also doesn't see giving enterprising students a chance
as a bad thing.

"There's a certain frustration when there are areas where you think you should
score higher and you don't, but ultimately, if that's the perception, that's the
perception," Mr. Collins said. "It's the responsibility of the individual
institutions to tell their story and explain why students should attend."

U.S. News & World Report has come under so much fire from college presidents
that its editor, Brian Kelly, posted a video on the magazine's Web site
explaining the ranking system's methodology when the latest list was released in
August.

The National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities launched a
resource meant to counter the U.S. News rankings in September. The University &
College Accountability Network, or U-CAN, is a Web site meant to provide
information about colleges without pitting schools against each other in
rankings.

St. Lawrence and Paul Smith's are on the Web site, but Clarkson University did
not create a profile.

Mr. Collins expects to hear what his colleagues in the Association of
Independent Technical Universities think of his commentary at the organization's
annual conference in January.

To see more of the Watertown Daily Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.wdt.net. Copyright (c) 2007, Watertown Daily Times, N.Y.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20071124-WE-COLLEGE-RANKING-20071124

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WE


                      Copyright 2007 Watertown Daily Times

                              300 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Grand Forks Herald (North Dakota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              July 21, 2017 Friday

UMC, UND top ranking of best online colleges

BYLINE: Andrew Haffner, Grand Forks Herald

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 369 words


July 21--Some of the best distance learning opportunities in higher education
might be within arm's reach at nearby institutions, according to a recent
national ranking.

The University of Minnesota-Crookston came in first in a "Top 100 Best Online
Colleges" list compiled by virtual higher ed guide Online College Plan. UND also
made a strong showing with the sixth place rank in the national list.

An introduction to the list described the ranking methodology as based on
comparisons of student rankings as well as "technology used for course delivery,
flexibility of classes, average cost of attendance and academic offerings."

According to the description of UMC included in the list, the university offers
more than a dozen online bachelor's degree programs, in addition to a "handful"
of certificates and minors. The ranking lists UMC as having, in total, about 30
undergraduate degrees.

UND is described in the ranking as having 10 online bachelor degrees and 20
online master's degrees. The ranking states UND also has two doctoral programs
in nursing that are available online. UND has seen an increasing number of
students enrolled solely as distance learners through the past few years.

Lynette Krenelka, UND director of extended learning, said in an email that the
fall 2016 semester had almost 3,350 students -- of a total enrollment of more
than 14,950 -- enrolled as distance and online only. Nearly 1,970 students were
enrolled that semester in a combination schedule of both online and traditional
classroom courses.

In the fall 2014 semester, when total enrollment was about 14,900, distance-only
learners stood with an enrollment of about 3,170 while the combined schedule
enrolled almost 1,865 students.

Looking to the future, UND has targeted online learning as a key part of its
strategic plan for the next five years and has pledged to increase its digital
offerings. North Dakota politicians including Gov. Doug Burgum have also
strongly advocated for more online offerings throughout the state's system of
higher education.

___ (c)2017 the Grand Forks Herald (Grand Forks, N.D.) Visit the Grand Forks
Herald (Grand Forks, N.D.) at www.grandforksherald.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170721-GF-UMC-UND-top-ranking-of-best-online-colleges-0721-20170721

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GF


                       Copyright 2017 Grand Forks Herald

                              301 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Grand Forks Herald (North Dakota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            July 19, 2017 Wednesday

UMC, UND top ranking of best online colleges

BYLINE: Andrew Haffner, Grand Forks Herald

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 368 words


July 19--Some of the best distance learning opportunities in higher education
might be within arm's reach at nearby institutions, according to a recent
national ranking.

The University of Minnesota-Crookston came in first in a "Top 100 Best Online
Colleges" list compiled by virtual higher ed guide Online College Plan. UND also
made a strong showing with the sixth place rank in the national list.

An introduction to the list described the ranking methodology as based on
comparisons of student rankings as well as "technology used for course delivery,
flexibility of classes, average cost of attendance and academic offerings."

According to the description of UMC included in the list, the university offers
more than a dozen online bachelor's degree programs, in addition to a "handful"
of certificates and minors. The ranking lists UMC as having, in total, about 30
undergraduate degrees.

UND is described in the ranking as having 10 online bachelor degrees and 20
online master's degrees. The ranking states UND also has two doctoral programs
in nursing that are available online. UND has seen an increasing number of
students enrolled solely as distance learners through the past few years.

Lynette Krenelka, UND director of extended learning, said in an email that the
fall 2016 semester had almost 3,350 students--of a total enrollment of more than
14,950--enrolled as distance and online only. Nearly 1,970 students were
enrolled that semester in a combination schedule of both online and traditional
classroom courses.

In the fall 2014 semester, when total enrollment was about 14,900, distance-only
learners stood with an enrollment of about 3,170 while the combined schedule
enrolled almost 1,865 students.

Looking to the future, UND has targeted online learning as a key part of its
strategic plan for the next five years and has pledged to increase its digital
offerings. North Dakota politicians including Gov. Doug Burgum have also
strongly advocated for more online offerings throughout the state's system of
higher education.

___ (c)2017 the Grand Forks Herald (Grand Forks, N.D.) Visit the Grand Forks
Herald (Grand Forks, N.D.) at www.grandforksherald.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170719-GF-UMC-UND-top-ranking-of-best-online-colleges-0719-20170719

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GF


                       Copyright 2017 Grand Forks Herald

                              302 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             April 5, 2016 Tuesday
                                  Pune Edition

3 city colleges in country's top 100

BYLINE: Ardhra.Nair@timesgroup.com

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 480 words


Poona College of Pharmacy , College of Engineering, Pune, and Defence Institute
of Advanced Technology are among the 10 educational institutes from the city in
top 100 in the National Institutions Ranking Framework released on Monday .

The Union human reso

urce development ministry declared the rankings for the top 100 pharmacy ,
engineering, management colleges and other universities on Monday , in New
Delhi.

Bharati Vidyapeeth's Poona College of Pharmacy has secured the fourth rank in
the country in the pharmacy list, while College of Engineering, Pune bagged the
21st rank among the engineering colleges across the country .

Savitribai Phule Pune University , Symbiosis group of institutes, Gokhale
Institute of Politics and Economics (GIPE) do not figure in the list.

Three colleges from Maharashtra are among the top 25 engineering colleges while
one management college, five pharmacy colleges and two universities feature in
the top 25 list of respective institutions in the national ranking.

KD Jadhav, joint secreta

ry of Bharati Vidyapeeth, said, "We had expected the college's name in the top
10 list. This was the first pharmacy college in the state established in 1981.
Today , almost all principals of pharmacy colleges in the state are from our
college. It has a rich legacy and research-wise, we are the best with a maximum
number of PhD students graduating every year."

W N Gade, vice-chancellor of Pune university said they had not uploaded the

data on the portal.

"There was some technical issue and we were unable to upload our data before the
deadline. We will be part of the ranking process in the current year," the
vicechancellor added.

Vidya Yeravdekar, principal director of Symbiosis Society , said the group had
not participated in the ranking. "We had queries about certain parameters. We
had written a couple of times to the University Grants Commission and ministry
of hu

man resource development, but our queries were unanswered. We will participate
in the forthcoming ranking provided we get answers to our queries," she added.

Another surprise was the non-inclusion of GIPE."I too am surprised that our name
did not feature in the list. We had uploaded our data on the portal, but we had
a tough time as it was showing error messages. I will check what went wrong,"
Gokhale Institute director Rajas Parchure said.

DIAT only univ from Pune in list

Defence Institute of Advanced Technology was the only university from Pune to
make it to the top 100 list. P K Khanna, officiating vice-chancellor of DIAT,
said their vice-chancellor S Pal was away.

"We are excited to be ranked in the top 100 list by NIRF. We are determined to
improve and will be in the top 10 list in the next few years. This is an outcome
of excellent research, learned faculty and leaders, supportive administration,
quality students and world-class facilities that DIAT has to offer," he said

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                 The Times Leader (Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          September 14, 2016 Wednesday

U.S. News & World Report "Best Colleges"? Maybe not so much, locals say.

BYLINE: Mark Guydish, The Times Leader, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 796 words


Sept. 14--It may seem overly predictable. The local college with the highest
ranking in Tuesday's U.S. News & World Report's "Best Colleges" list touts the
success, the one with the lowest local ranking questions the system.

But the release of what is almost certainly the nation's most publicized college
rankings raises a broader question: What do these rankings really tell
prospective students?

The University of Scranton ranked 6th, highest among local institutions in the
2017 U.S. News list, and President Kevin Quinn issued a statement expressing
pleasure that the U is "counted so consistently among the best colleges in the
nation."

Wilkes University ranked 85th, lowest among local schools, and university
President Patrick Leahy cautioned that rankings miss critical data regarding
which students a school accepts -- a factor that, statistically, can have a big
impact on the metrics U.S. News does count, such as student retention and
graduation rates.

Half of Wilkes' undergraduates are first-generation college students, and 43
percent of freshman are eligible for federal Pell grants given to the most
financially strapped, Leahy said.

"We have a very diverse and very financially needy student population," Leahy
said, and studies show such students often require more attention and time. But
serving those students "has been our mission for 83 years."

Locally, all ranked institutions were in a category U.S. News dubs "Regional
Universities North," essentially covering states from Maryland and Pennsylvania
to Maine. Locally, between Scranton and Wilkes, Misericordia was 44th, Marywood
University 51st and King's College 57th.

Which isn't a bad showing. Consider a few other fairly well-known Pennsylvania
institutions on the list: Slippery Rock ranked 75th, Shippensburg was 95th, and
Bloomsburg was 104th.

U.S. News also issues a list of best "national universities," and Princeton
topped that list for the sixth year in a row. The University of Pennsylvania was
the only Keystone State school to crack the top ten, tied with Duke University
for eighth place. Penn State University ranked 50th.

The U.S. News rankings may get the most attention annually, but it's hardly the
only system in town.

"Basically it has become a parlor game to have rankings, so everyone has a
ranking," Leahy said. "I think any ranking that adequately takes into
consideration those students you chose to educate, and what you do with those
students, is welcome."

Leahy pointed to 2015 rankings by The Economist -- the magazine's first college
rankings since founded in 1843. It used newly-available federal data on graduate
earnings to determine a "return on investment" for students, and Wilkes did
quite well.

"We ranked 25th in the nation," Leahy said.

Leahy pointed to another problem with U.S. News rankings: Nearly a quarter of a
school's score is based on surveys of what officials from other schools think
about yours. If they barely know your school, they are likely to use past
rankings to judge.

"You can see how circular that can become," Leahy said.

Misericordia University President Thomas Botzman agreed. In a release boasting
of Misericordia's climb of 23 spaces since 2007, the university noted that many
peers surveyed for the U.S. News rankings "are located far outside the region
and might not know Misericordia as well as they could."

Misericordia pointed to a rating by The Princeton Review that put it among
Northeastern United States' best. Those ranking were based on "excellent
academics" and surveys of student opinion about campus life.

Yet in a column that appeared in the Times Leader in August, Botzman took issue
with ratings by Forbes magazine that graded schools on financial well being,
giving Misericordia a B-minus. He contended the assumptions used by Forbes may
have been suitable for, say, Princeton, but didn't really apply to much smaller
schools like Misericordia.

Leahy stressed there's a lot of valuable data used in the U.S. News rankings,
but that it's likely a mistake to use them as a sole, or even primary, way of
gauging any school.

"I want to make clear that we're not trying to be defensive here," he said. "If
there are best practices in higher education that help us improve our retention
and graduation rates, I want to know about them. And I'm not debunking the work
of the schools that are ranked ahead of us.

"There are others who feel strongly about these rankings," Leahy added, "and
part of my argument is that someone needs to speak up and say to those
individuals that they are not looking at the full picture."

Reach Mark Guydish at 570-991-6112 or on Twitter @TLMarkGuydish.

___ (c)2016 The Times Leader (Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) Visit The Times Leader
(Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) at www.timesleader.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160914-WB-U-S-News-World-Report-Best-Colleges
-Maybe-not-so-much-locals-say-0914-20160914

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WB


                        Copyright 2016 The Times Leader

                              304 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 13, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

The global picture

SECTION: UNIVERSITY GUIDE;FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 211 words


In the highly competitive world university rankings published by QS last month,
Trinity College Dublin stood head and shoulders above all other third-level
institutions. It was one of just two Irish universities to climb in the new
rankings rising six places to 61 in the new world order. NUI, Galway is the only
other institution to register a net rise from 2012, rising three places to rank
284=.

Trinity''s ranking is some way short of the 43= achieved in 2009, the same year
University College Dublin ranked 89, fully 50 places above its position this
year.

The rankings are largely based on research profiles and employer and academic
reputational rankings.

Dublin IT makes it to 6= among the Irish institutions in the world table,
splitting the universities in the way it would no doubt like to achieve
domestically. Its new position of 501= is also down from the 326= achieved in
2009, a reflection of the increasingly competitive nature of the global rankings
, where research is king.

IRISH WORLD VIEW World ranking 1 Trinity College Dublin 61 2 University College
Dublin 139 3 University College Cork 210= 4 NUI, Galway 284= 5 Dublin City
University 349= 6= Dublin IT 501= 6= University of Limerick 501= 8 NUI, Maynooth
551= Source: QS World University Rankings 2013

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 19, 2013 Thursday

U of O ranked No. 6 in South by U.S. News & World Report

LENGTH: 471  words

DATELINE: Little Rock


University of the Ozarks has issued the following news release:

In its 2014 edition of "America's Best Colleges," which hit the newsstands on
Sept. 10, U.S. News & World Report listed Ozarks 6th overall among the 100
Regional Colleges in the South Region. The overall rankings examine such
criteria as academic reputation, graduation and retention rates, faculty
resources, student selectivity, financial resources and alumni giving.

Ozarks has been ranked a "top tier" university by the publication every year
since 2000. Ozarks moved up three spots from its 9th-place ranking in 2013.

In addition, Ozarks ranked fourth in the South Region in the "Great Schools at
Great Prices" category in the annual late summer publication that analyzes
institutions of higher education. The magazine listed 100 universities in the
Regional Colleges category within the 12-state South Region.

It is the 14th time in the last 15 years that Ozarks has been ranked in the top
five of the best value category. The value rankings evaluate the cost of
attending a college or university relative to the quality of the institution.
According to the magazine, "the higher the quality of the program and the lower
the cost, the better the deal."

This year,  U.S. News & World Report increased the weight of graduation and
retention rates in its rankings. As a result, outcome-related measures account
for 30 percent of the rankings and are now the most heavily weighted factors.

"U.S. News strives to provide students and their families with the most
comprehensive data available," said Bob Morse, director of data research.
"Measuring outcomes is critical to understanding how well a school retains and
educates its students."

The South Region consists of colleges and universities in Arkansas, Louisiana,
Mississippi, Georgia, Alabama, Florida, Tennessee, Kentucky, North Carolina,
South Carolina, West Virginia and Virginia.

U.S. News & World Report ranked more than 1,400 accredited schools nationally in
its "America's Best Colleges" edition.

Ozarks was also recently ranked highly by another college ranking report.

In August, Washington Monthly listed Ozarks 25th overall among the nation's
Baccalaureate colleges in its 2013 College Rankings edition. It was the second
consecutive year that the publication has ranked Ozarks among the nation's top
25 Baccalaureate colleges. The Washington Monthly ranks more than 1,500 colleges
and universities on such criteria as recruiting and graduating low-income
students and commitment to public service.

"These rankings are a testament to the great work of our faculty, staff and
administrators," said Ozarks President Richard Dunsworth. "It is an honor to be
recognized for our university's commitment to providing a quality education to
our students."

For more information please visit: http://www.ozarks.edu.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                      AUGUST 22, 1997 Friday CWEST EDITION

COLLEGES IN PA. GET TOP RATING / U.S. NEWS RANKED SWARTHMORE 1ST IN LIBERAL ARTS
SCHOOLS. HAVERFORD AND BRYN MAWR DID WELL.

BYLINE: Monica Yant, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEIGHBORS; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 514 words


For the second year, Swarthmore College topped the list of national liberal arts
schools in U.S. News & World Report's annual college rankings.

The University of Pennsylvania tied for seventh (up from 13th) among national
universities, while Haverford College (sixth) and Bryn Mawr College (eighth)
rounded out the list of top liberal arts colleges in the magazine's Aug. 25
issue.

Among Northern regional universities, Villanova University (tied for first with
Providence College) moved up a notch from last year, while St. Joseph's
University (11th) retained its 1996 ranking. Rosemont College tied for the fifth
best Northern regional liberal arts college.

In 11 years, the rankings have become a high-profile marketing tool for the
magazine, which dubs its "exclusive" list "the definitive guide for collegebound
students," and has given bragging rights to schools that crack the coveted Top
25.

Among schools that don't make it - and even some that do - the rankings are
targets of criticism. The criteria, including a school's academic reputation,
SAT scores of incoming students, student/faculty ratio, retention and graduation
rates, are an ongoing topic of debate among educators, who dismiss the rankings
as simplistic. Also of concern is the weight parents and prospective students
place on the rankings when choosing a college.

This year, a change in the magazine's method of scoring rounded rankings up to
the nearest whole number, creating more ties. Thus, 13 schools made the list of
Top 10 national liberal arts schools. Two schools - Harvard and Princeton
Universities - were voted best national university, while Penn tied with
Dartmouth College for seventh.

The magazine has also spurred competitors, with rival rankings in categories
from best values for the price to dining hall food to social life.

Bryn Mawr, for instance, was recently named one of the nation's most "stone-cold
sober" schools by the Princeton Review, a test preparation company that based
its findings on a survey of 56,000 students. West Virginia University was deemed
the biggest "party school" in the same survey.

Bryn Mawr and Swarthmore were also cited by U.S. News for being among the most
racially and ethnically diverse national liberal arts colleges in the nation.
Rutgers University at Newark topped the list of most diverse national
universities.

U.S. News' list of best national universities also included Duke and Yale
Universities (tied for third), Stanford University (fifth), the University of
Notre Dame, (19th) and Carnegie-Mellon University (23d). Lehigh University in
Bethlehemranked 34th and Pennsylvania State University 45th.

The 25 best liberal arts schools included Amherst (second), Wellesley (third),
and Vassar Colleges (17th). Bucknell University in Lewisburg ranked 27th,
Franklin and Marshall College in Lancaster, 33d, and Lafayette College in
Easton, 37th.

The University of Scranton was ranked the third best Northern regional
university. Pennsylvania schools also dominated the list of Northern regional
liberal arts schools.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                              April 1, 2007 Sunday

College search should be about fit, not ranking

BYLINE: MARTHA O'CONNELL

SECTION: Z_COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 562 words


If you had to choose a spouse or partner for life, would you like to use a
publication ranking them by income, IQ scores and reputation as reported by
others who have never met the person? I often ask this question as I speak to
college-bound students and their families, and after the laughter, we discuss
the factors that are important in searching for the right college for each
student.

As a culture, we love consulting consumer guidebooks and lists for a shortcut to
choosing electronics and cars. The college search, however, requires a more
thoughtful, personal and time-consuming approach. It can't be reduced to
numerical rankings when it requires starting with who the student is and why he
or she is going to college, the student's needs and desires, learning styles and
interests. This self-inventory is how to start finding colleges that fit the
individual, instead of starting with the assumption that only the top 20 on the
U.S. News & World Report list have any value.

Another flaw in the rankings is that they tout entering-class statistics rather
than focusing on what happens during the four years those students are enrolled.
Veteran college counselor Loren Pope has said that choosing colleges based on
the entering statistics of the freshman class is like choosing a hospital based
on the health of those in the emergency room. It's the treatment that really
matters -- in the case of colleges, what happens between the first year and
graduation.

How do you choose a college without using rankings? Visit the National Survey of
Student Engagement Web site and read the section on ''Choosing a College: Are
You Asking the Right Questions?'': ''How often do faculty meet students outside
of class?'' ''How much writing and how many presentations are required?'' ''How
much time do students devote to co-curricular activities?'' These questions and
others like them get at the heart of what is important for each student. They
also focus on questions pertinent to student outcomes rather than assuming that
the rankings number got it right.

The president of Sarah Lawrence College and others are correct in pointing out
the flaws (at best) and sham (at worst) of U.S. News' report on ''America's Best
Colleges,'' but the ranking guide is not going away soon -- it's a big seller.

But the importance of such reports in the college search process can certainly
be diminished if students, parents and counselors focus on fit rather than name
recognition. Students are very good at naming the people in their lives, as well
as famous people, who are successful and happy, but usually don't know where (or
even whether) these people went to college. I challenge them to find out, and
they most often report that they were surprised to learn how many had gone to
lesser-known or ''lower-ranked'' colleges.

If I could wave a magic wand this spring, I would make the rankings go away.
Lacking magical powers, I'll ask for the next best thing: a thoughtful,
student-centered college search process that ends with a good fit for each
student and allows the students, their families and their school counselors to
celebrate the choice, regardless of where it ranks on any list.

Martha O'Connell, former vice president for enrollment at McDaniel College in
Maryland, is now executive director of the nonprofit Colleges That Change Lives.
She wrote this for the Baltimore Sun.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              August 15, 1997, Friday, 4 State / Suncoast Edition

New College tumbles to No. 6 spot

SOURCE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 415 words



For years, New College of the University of South Florida has been a top
finisher in Money magazine's annual ranking of the best college buys in the
nation. And it's there again this year, although it has fallen a bit.

New College ranked sixth overall in the rankings, which were led by  California
Institute of Technology.

Last year, New College - the unconventional honors division of USF in  Sarasota
- was second. That spot is now occupied by Rice University in Texas.  From 1993
through 1995, New College was No. 1 on the list.

The University of Florida, perhaps best known nationally as a football  power,
moved from 14th last year to No. 10 on the strength of its numerous  majors,
rigorous academic standards and superior faculty and facilities, the  magazine
said.

"I think what's happened is we've improved in quality and our tuition has
stayed low," said UF Provost Betty Capaldi.

"What I like about the ranking is that it (measures) quality," she said.  "It's
not just an economic ranking."

Florida State ranked 33rd.

Money analyzed 16 measures at 1,115 four-year colleges, including  entrance-exam
results, faculty resources and deployment, library resources,  instruction and
student services budgets and graduation rates.

The monthly magazine compared that data with tuition and fees to reach a  value
rating and rank the top 150 colleges for its September issue, which went  on
sale Wednesday.

This year's No. 1, Caltech, is a bit pricey with tuition at $ 18,816. But it
leads the list because it has one teacher for every three students and spends
an average of $ 47,677 on each undergraduate - more than any other U.S. college

 and well above the national average of $ 5,110.

Caltech also boasts 24 Nobel Prize-winning professors and alumni, and  almost
every member of its faculty has a doctorate, compared with a national  average
of 54 percent, Money reported.

College best buys

Three Florida schools are among the top 33 in Money magazine's latest rankings
of best buys in college education:

1. California Institute of Technology

2. Rice University (Texas)

3. University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill

4. State University of N.Y.-Binghamton

5. Spelman College (Ga.)

6. New College of the University of South Florida

7. College of New Jersey

8. Truman State University (Mo.)

9. State University of N.Y.-Geneseo

10. University of Florida

33. Florida State University  Source: Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE CHART; partial listing of Money magazine's latest
rankings of best buys in college education, includes a drawing of a cap and
diploma

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company

                              309 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                           September 10, 2013 Tuesday

U.S. News releases college rankings for Utah, nation

BYLINE: By Lindsay Whitehurst The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; State

LENGTH: 883 words


For 30 years, U.S. News & World Report has been declaring which colleges and
universities are the country's best and which don't make the grade.

The rankings -- released Tuesday for 2014 -- have been controversial nearly as
long. But they've become part of the sometimes-overwhelming college search for
students making a life-changing choice and parents preparing to help pay tens of
thousands of dollars in tuition.

This year, though, the debate over whether and how colleges can be ranked has a
new urgency. Last month, President Barack Obama proposed creating a national
higher education ranking system based on which colleges provide the best value
-- and tying those rankings to federal student aid.

The system, set to be designed by 2015 and in use by 2018, would take into
account the percentage of students receiving Pell grants, average tuition,
scholarships, student-loan debt and outcomes such as transfers and graduation.

U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan said last week his department plans to have
staffers travel the country taking input before they craft such a system.

"We don't have any metrics yet. What the president has said is, 'We want to
think through very carefully a meaningful rating system,' " he said, ensuring,
for example, that colleges are not just enrolling disadvantaged students but
also seeing them through to graduation.

"We're in no hurry here, and we'd love thoughtful opinions and advice from
anyone who is interested," Duncan said in a telephone news conference hosted by
the Education Writers Association.

--

'Blunt instrument'   The concept is potentially problematic for high school
guidance counselor Bruce Hunter, who advises students at the private Salt Lake
City college-prep school Rowland Hall.

"If these rankings from the federal government are going to have dollar signs on
them," Hunter said, " ccc then I think they stand a chance of being
counterproductive."

Rankings generally are a "very blunt instrument," he said.

"The biggest problem is to suggest to students that only a very limited number
of quality university experiences are out there," he said. "The effect too often
is that students and parents think places that are really wealthy or famous are
the only colleges worth considering."

He encourages students to consider how they learn best, what kind of role they
want to play in a school and the community, and what their values are.

And he points to other evaluations. Hunter likes the National Survey of Student
Engagement, which asks college students to gauge how well they are learning --
and eschews rankings -- and Colleges That Change Lives, which aims to be a
student-centered college search process.

The magazine Washington Monthly has been rating schools based on "public good"
measures, such as recruiting and graduating low-income students, service and
research. For 2013, it also ranked colleges deemed to be "Best for the buck,"
examining how well schools help nonwealthy students earn affordable, marketable
degrees.

Among national schools, Utah State University finished at No. 13, with the
University of Utah at No. 24.

Some Utah schools have expressed confidence in the president's proposal, saying
the state's relatively low tuition could mean it also does well in the federal
rankings he envisions.

--

Utah's rank   In the new rankings released Tuesday, U.S. News listed the U. as
No. 121 among national schools, with USU at 190. LDS Church-owned Brigham Young
University placed at 62.

Among regional schools: Westminster College ranked at 22; Southern Utah
University, 71; Weber State University, 80.

Both BYU and the U. were ranked among the best schools for undergraduate
business and engineering degrees. More ranking lists, including schools with the
lowest debt loads at graduation, are available beginning Tuesday at usnews.com.

In order to vault in the rankings, schools often focus on increasing their
admissions selectivity, alumni-giving rates and the size of their endowments,
rather than the quality of students' on-campus experience, Hunter said.

But in a conference call with media Monday, director of data research Robert
Morse said U.S. News changed some aspects of its methodology for the 2014
rankings.

There is a greater emphasis, he said, on outcomes -- such as retention and
graduation rates -- and a diminished emphasis on the test scores and class
standing of incoming high school students.

While the schools included in the top tiers did not change, some schools below
that level moved up or down significantly, he said. The changes were adopted
before Obama's push to focus on outcomes, he noted.

Obama proposes to include data not currently published, such as employment and
earnings of graduates, Morse said, adding that the U.S. News methodology will
continue to evolve. -- Ranking higher education U.S. News & World Report
released its 2014 rankings for colleges and universities Tuesday. National
schools Brigham Young University, one of six schools at 62. University of Utah,
one of seven schools at 121.Utah State University, one of eleven schools at 190.
Western regional schools Westminster College, one of two schools at 22. Southern
Utah University, one of four schools at 71. Weber State University, one of seven
schools at 80. See rankings for more Utah schools and on more topics at
usnews.com.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: File photo | A student catches some sleep in the University of Utah's
Student Union Building. The U. is ranked at No. 121 among national schools by
U.S. News and World Report.
| Courtesy Westminster Students on the first day back to school at Westminster
College, a private school in Salt Lake City. It's among the Utah schools
included in new rankings released Tuesday by U.S. News and World Report.
| Courtesy Westminster Students on the first day back to school at Westminster
College, a private school in Salt Lake City. It is ranked at 22 among western
regional schools by U.S. News and World Report.
File photo | University of Utah students on campus. The U. is ranked at No. 121
among national schools by U.S. News and World Report.
File photo | University of Utah students on campus. The U. is ranked at No. 121
among national schools by U.S. News and World Report.
| Courtesy Westminster Students on the first day back to school at Westminster
College, a private school in Salt Lake City. It's among the Utah schools
included in new rankings released Tuesday by U.S. News and World Report.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday

Next year, SPPU will be among the top five: VC

BYLINE: Anup Satphale

SECTION: PUNE

LENGTH: 798 words


The city's 'Oxford of the East' tag got a boost on Monday with the HRD Ministry
ranking SPPU in the top-10 universities and 18th best across academic
institutions in the country. However, vice-chancellor WN Gade feels that the
university can be easily counted among the top-five, albeit with minor changes
in their strategies and approach.Exploring the social mediaAmong major
improvements in its approach, SPPU plans to boost its perception through social
media. "Out of the five parameters that the National Institutional Ranking
Framework (NIRF) was based on, it was 'perception' that hampered our overall
rating. SPPU has the potential to be in the top five institutions.

Today, presentation and responses count a lot, especially through social media.
So far, we were not very active on this platform. There are many negative
comments on the social media which have been there for years. If those would've
been dealt with in time, our score might've improved. It is important to be in
sync with the world trends and from now on, we will be focussing on publicity,
marketing and social media outreach to better the varsity's overall
performance," says Gade.Surprisingly, Symbiosis International University ranks
61st in the universities and 97th in the overall list. Vidya Yeravdekar,
principal director, Symbiosis Society, informs, "We were under the impression
that Pune is synonymous with Symbiosis, but after the NIRF ranking, we
understand that's not so. We are examining where we are lacking in marketing and
will be working on it."Fergusson College ranked 35th in the 'College'
categoryRavindra Pardeshi, principal, Fergusson College, says, "There are
certain criteria to be met - the percentage of placement, competitiveness,
academics, public and peer perception etc. We are happy about being placed 35th
in the rankings but there are many other surveys too, conducted by other
agencies, where we are placed amongst the top-10 colleges of the country. Right
now, we are comparing our scores with other colleges and identifying our
shortcomings. We will definitely try to better the ranking next year."Less
awareness about the systemOut of the 724 participating institutions, only 20
were from Pune. Less participation by city- based institutions in the ranking
process have reflected on the final scale as well. Though the city is considered
the Oxford of the East, there are hardly three traditional colleges, two
management colleges and four each of engineering and pharmacy colleges that
appeared in the top-100 colleges list in the respective categories. There were
only 20 institutions from the city out of the total of 724 in the NIRF.

According to Gade, "Most of the colleges under SPPU have been awarded good
grades by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), but the low
participation in the NIRF has resulted in lesser institutions on the list. A lot
of the city's colleges have all the attributes to feature in the top-100
colleges of the country, and next time, hopefully, they will prepare and
participate in the respective categories."More admissions predictedMany
outstation and foreign students enroll for courses at city colleges every year,
and a good ranking for the university means even more students will prefer
studying in the city."This was our first year of participation and we ended up
10th across universities. The ranking plays an important role in getting good
faculty and students," feels Gade.Tejas Dashputre, MBA student, SPPU - These
rankings play a very vital role in getting more students to join the university.
SPPU being ranked 10th is a big achievement. I feel the various facilities,
including a biotechnology department and research space, have contributed to the
ranking."Rohit Hoare, Ness Wadia College of Commerce - Teachers, especially the
visiting faculty, should be a lot more involved in the teaching process in
college. There's also a lack of interaction between the teachers, which if done,
could facilitate an exchange of ideas. Maybe some training courses for the
teachers to better their methods could also help. Ameya Nalawade, BE (petroleum
engineering), Maharashtra Institute of Technology, - PuneIt's good to know that
the Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT) has made it to the engineering
category list. A suggestion would be for the institute to encourage its faculty
members to be up-to-date with emerging trends and technology and incorporate the
same in their teaching methods. I've also observed the difficulties students
face when they come for admission. An institute's hospitality largely
contributes to the perceptions one would have about it. Admissions could be more
streamlined and student-friendly. - With inputs from Zainab Kantawala and Dean
Lobo

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 24, 2015 Tuesday

Washington: Trinity ranked #1 in private Washington colleges for best value,
student outcomes

LENGTH: 387  words

DATELINE: Olympia


Trinity Lutheran College, The State of Washington has issued the following News
release:

In a time when net value and affordability are a top priority for students
considering college, Trinity Lutheran College is pleased to report that it has
received the top ranking when compared to other colleges and universities in the
state of Washington by The Other College Guide.

The rankings, which are published each year by The Washington Monthly, are based
on three primary categories: the best value for your money based on net price,
how well a school does graduating the students they admit, and whether those
students go on to earn at least enough to pay off their loans.

These metrics closely match the new college rating system proposed in 2013 by
the federal government, which has issues of access, affordability and outcomes
as its top measurements.

Out of 233 total schools rated by The Washington Monthly in the western United
States, Trinity was 47th. When compared to other private schools in Washington
State, Trinity comes out on top.

low student-loan default rate, a successful graduation rate, a significant
number of students receiving Pell Grants, and a low net tuition (especially
compared to private colleges in the region) all contributed to Trinity's high
ranking.

"This ranking affirms what we already know--that we are offering an affordable
education with real, measurable outcomes," said John Reed, Trinity Lutheran
College President.

With a student body of 220 students and an 8-1 student to faculty ratio, Trinity
is already known as a college offering students a personalized education with
plenty of opportunities for mentoring. It also offers one of the lowest private
school tuition costs in the state of Washington.

The top ranking from The Other College Guide also suggests that when compared
with other private colleges in the state, Trinity is a step up in its overall
value for students and their families.

"We hope high school students will take a close look at Trinity when considering
their college education. The ranking using the new federal guidelines strongly
reflect both our affordability and our ability to prepare students for
professional and financial success," Reed said.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 19, 2016 Monday

Baruch College Named Among Top 300 Best College Values of 2017 by Kiplinger's
Personal Finance

LENGTH: 235  words

DATELINE: New York



 New York: City University of New York (CUNY) System has issued the following
news release:



  Baruch College has been named to Kiplinger's Personal Finance list of the Top
300 Best College Values of 2017, earning high rankings in multiple categories,
including the #3 spot on the magazine's list of the Best Colleges with Lowest
Average Graduating Debt.





 The rankings, which are based on data on nearly 1,200 public and private
four-year schools throughout the United States, highlight those 300 colleges and
universities that combine outstanding academics with affordable cost.



 Baruch's rankings for the Top 300 Best College Values of 2017 are:



 #3 - Best Colleges with Lowest Average Graduating Debt



 #25 - Best College Value Public Colleges Out-of-State



 #26 - Best College Value Public College In-State



 #118 - Best College Value Schools National Ranking



 For its methodology, Kiplinger assesses value by measurable standards of
academic quality and affordability. Quality measures include the admission rate,
the percentage of students who return for sophomore year, the student-faculty
ratio and four-year graduation rate. Cost criteria include sticker price,
financial aid and average debt at graduation. The complete rankings are now
available online at Kiplinger.com /links/college.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            August 20, 2009 Thursday
                                   L2 Edition

Princeton reclaims top college ranking

BYLINE: By Oliver Staley Bloomberg News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 456 words


Princeton University reclaimed its spot at the top of U.S. News & World Report's
rankings of the best schools, tying for first with Harvard University a year
after Harvard displaced it.

Williams College, in Williamstown, Mass., was the top liberal arts college.
Princeton, in Princeton, N.J., was first, or tied for first among national
research universities with Harvard, in Cambridge, Mass., from 2001 until it
placed second last year, according to the magazine, which announced the rankings
Wednesday.

The rankings are determined by a combination of factors including student test
scores, selectivity and financial resources. Estimates from Harvard and
Princeton that endowments declined at least 25 percent for the fiscal year ended
June 30 didn't affect this year's rankings, which were based on the previous
fiscal year's performance, said Robert Morse, director of data research at U.S.
News, based in Washington.

"The impact in our rating isn't going to be this year but next year and the year
after that," he said.

Yale University, in New Haven, Conn., was ranked third among national
universities, as it was last year. Four schools were tied for fourth: California
Institute of Technology, in Pasadena; Massachusetts Institute of Technology, in
Cambridge; Stanford University, near Palo Alto, Calif.; and the University of
Pennsylvania, in Philadelphia. The University of Chicago ranked eighth.

Liberal Arts schools

Among liberal arts colleges, which are smaller than research universities and
don't offer graduate degrees, Amherst College, in Massachusetts, was second,
followed by Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania. Middlebury College, in Vermont,
and Wellesley College Massachusetts, were tied for fourth.

Universities have been accused of manipulating their policies to improve their
rankings. At a conference in June, a Clemson University staff member described
steps the school in Clemson, S.C., took to move up in the rankings, including
giving its peer schools "below average" ratings in order to inflate its own
standing, according to insidehighered.com.

While Clemson officials said they aspire to be ranked among the top 20 public
universities, the school denied it engaged in unethical behavior.

Most measures taken to improve position in the ratings, such as lowering class
sizes and improving graduation ranks, are often good for students, Morse said.

Morse, who has worked for U.S. News since 1976, said the magazine never expected
the rankings would gain such importance when they were introduced in the late
1980s.

"That was the last thing on our mind, that they would be an influential force,"
he said. "It was for consumers and now it's becoming the publicly accepted bench
mark. That wasn't part of our thought process."

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              314 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 24, 2015 Tuesday

Washington: Trinity ranked #1 in private Washington colleges for best value,
student outcomes

LENGTH: 387  words

DATELINE: Olympia


Trinity Lutheran College, The State of Washington has issued the following News
release:

In a time when net value and affordability are a top priority for students
considering college, Trinity Lutheran College is pleased to report that it has
received the top ranking when compared to other colleges and universities in the
state of Washington by The Other College Guide.

The rankings, which are published each year by The Washington Monthly, are based
on three primary categories: the best value for your money based on net price,
how well a school does graduating the students they admit, and whether those
students go on to earn at least enough to pay off their loans.

These metrics closely match the new college rating system proposed in 2013 by
the federal government, which has issues of access, affordability and outcomes
as its top measurements.

Out of 233 total schools rated by The Washington Monthly in the western United
States, Trinity was 47th. When compared to other private schools in Washington
State, Trinity comes out on top.

low student-loan default rate, a successful graduation rate, a significant
number of students receiving Pell Grants, and a low net tuition (especially
compared to private colleges in the region) all contributed to Trinity's high
ranking.

"This ranking affirms what we already know--that we are offering an affordable
education with real, measurable outcomes," said John Reed, Trinity Lutheran
College President.

With a student body of 220 students and an 8-1 student to faculty ratio, Trinity
is already known as a college offering students a personalized education with
plenty of opportunities for mentoring. It also offers one of the lowest private
school tuition costs in the state of Washington.

The top ranking from The Other College Guide also suggests that when compared
with other private colleges in the state, Trinity is a step up in its overall
value for students and their families.

"We hope high school students will take a close look at Trinity when considering
their college education. The ranking using the new federal guidelines strongly
reflect both our affordability and our ability to prepare students for
professional and financial success," Reed said.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Irish Daily Mail

                             June 8, 2017 Thursday

Irish colleges climb world league tables

BYLINE: Ciara Mooney

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 514 words


SOME of Ireland's top universities have improved their positions in the latest
worldwide rankings, it has been revealed.

Trinity College Dublin, which declined in ranking last year, has jumped up ten
places to 88th on a global scale, according to the QS World University Rankings
survey.

University College Dublin has also improved its position this year, moving up
eight places in the global survey and now boasts a ranking of 168th worldwide.

There was also good news for National University of Ireland, Galway as the
college has climbed up six places this year, now ranking at 243rd globally.

University College Cork remained stable at a ranking of 283rd worldwide while
Dublin City University dropped from 380th to 391st.

President of NUI Galway, Dr Jim Browne said the results of the survey reflect
the recent positive developments that have taken place in the university.

Commenting on the global survey results, Dr Browne said: 'What's particularly
heartening is that the rankings highlight our student focus and the
international excellence on our campus.' Earlier this year, President Michael D
Higgins officially opened the O'Donoghue Centre for Drama, Theatre and
Performance in the university while in September 2016, a (EURO)49million centre
for research in medical devices was officially launched which has enhanced NUI
Galway's reputation as a global hub for medical technology.

And NUI Galway has secured (EURO)38million in funding from Horizon 2020, the EU
Research and Innovation Programme. Dr Browne said: 'We are on the edge of the
Atlantic but our outlook is global. The ranking [in the survey] is further
acknowledgement of the developments in teaching and research that have taken
place at this University in recent years.

'The hard work, commitment and ambition of our staff and students has led to our
continued rise in global rankings, and we are pleased to see the impact in
international recognition and in student interest, with a 10% increase in CAO
applications in Ireland this year.

'Amidst speculation on the impact of Brexit on Irish institutions, we've seen an
11% increase on applications from Northern Ireland and Great Britain this year,'
Dr Browne added.

This year's table provides the definitive guide to the world's 959 top
universities.

Massachusetts Institute of Technology is named the world's leading university
for a record sixth consecutive year.

Stanford University was ranked at No.2 and in third place was Harvard University
which are all situated in the US.

According to the survey, which was carried out by experts at QS World University
Rankings, universities in the UK fell for the second year in a row, with 51 of
the UK's 76 ranked institutions dropping down the placings.

news@dailymail.ie

WORLD UNIVERSITY RANKINGS IRISH UNIVERSITIES 2017/18 2016/17 Trinity College
Dublin ¦ 88 98 University College Dublin 168 176 National University of Ireland,
Galway 243 249 University College Cork 283 283 Dublin City University 391 380
University of Limerick 501-550 501-550 Dublin Institute of Technology 651-700
651-700 Maynooth University 701-750 651-700

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DML


          Copyright 2017 Irish Daily Mail - Associated Newspapers Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 11, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

The Cost of Bucking College Rankings

BYLINE: Michele Tolela Myers

SECTION: Editorial; B07

LENGTH: 712 words


Like most college presidents, I have seen many prospective students and their
parents show up on campus in recent months, clutching their well-worn copies of
U.S. News &  World Report's rankings issue. U.S. News has smartly tapped into
students' need to sort out colleges and universities in a rational way. Parents,
who face increasing college costs, understandably want to know where best to
make that expensive investment.

U.S. News benefits from our appetite for shortcuts, sound bites and top-10
lists. The magazine has parlayed the appearance of unbiased measurements into a
profitable bottom line.

The problem is that the U.S. News college rankings are far from reliable.

Turns out that some of their numbers are made up. I know that firsthand. Two
years ago, we at Sarah Lawrence College decided to stop using SAT scores in our
admission process. We didn't make them optional, as some schools do. We simply
told our prospective students not to bother sending them. We determined that the
best predictors of success at Sarah Lawrence are high school grades in rigorous
college-prep courses, teachers' recommendations and extensive writing samples.
We are a writing-intensive school, and the information produced by SAT scores
added little to our ability to predict how a student would do at our college; it
did, however, do much to bias admission in favor of those who could afford
expensive coaching sessions.

Since we dropped the SAT altogether, we no longer provide SAT information to
U.S. News &  World Report. Our two years' experience with this practice has been
very good. Faculty members report that our students continue to be terrific.
Their average high school grades, high school ranks and grades in Advanced
Placement courses have not changed.

But this  principled decision has put us in jeopardy. I was recently informed by
the director of data research at U.S. News, the person at the magazine who has a
lot to say about how the rankings are computed, that absent students' SAT
scores, the magazine will calculate the college's ranking by assuming an
arbitrary average SAT score of one standard deviation (roughly 200 points) below
the average score of our peer group.

In other words, in the absence of real data, they will make up a number. He made
clear to me that he believes that schools that do not use SAT scores in their
admission process are admitting less capable students and therefore should lose
points on their selectivity index. Our experience, of course, tells us
otherwise.

But the story does not stop here. When I reported this conversation at Sarah
Lawrence, several faculty members and deans suggested that perhaps it was time
to stop playing ranking roulette and opt out of the survey. A few colleges
explore this option each year, but most don't follow through (Reed College is
one of the few exceptions I know of), because, like unilateral disarmament,
unilateral withdrawal from the U.S. News ranking system is dangerous.

We discovered how dangerous it can be through a presentation U.S. News made at
the 2006 meeting of the North East Association for Institutional Research.
There, the magazine indicated that if a school stops sending data, the default
assumption will be that it performs one standard deviation below the mean on
numerous factors for which U.S. News can't find published data. Again, making up
the numbers it can't get.

The message is clear. Unless we are willing to be badly misrepresented, we had
better send the information the magazine wants. We haven't yet decided what we
will do. But if we don't go along, we understand we will be harmed because many
students will assume that Sarah Lawrence is much less selective than it actually
is.

The reality is that the magazine's rankings issue has a large circulation and
that parents and students rely on these rankings to make a college choice that
has enormous educational and financial implications. This gives the magazine the
power to keep colleges playing the game it sets and controls.

Why should we care if we lose our place in their rankings? Because ultimately,
so many people take these rankings seriously. I would at least like to let them
know how misleading the whole affair is.

The writer is president of Sarah Lawrence College.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post

                              317 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                           November 17, 2005 Thursday

Hampton considers eliminating class ranking

BYLINE: Rick Wills

LENGTH: 545 words


At Hampton High School, the difference in the valedictorian's grades and the
grades of a student at the bottom of a class's top 10 percent is usually
minuscule.

"The student with the lower ranking probably got a 'B' in one class during high
school -- that is the only difference," said Peter Allen, a guidance counselor
at Hampton High School.

Frustrated by the negative impact that such minute differences have on college
admissions, Hampton's school board plans to eliminate inclusion of class ranking
in school transcripts.

"I think this is the right thing to do, and I don't think we are dumbing down
our expectations," said school board member David Gurwin, who also is a member
of a committee formed earlier this year to look at the change.

Gurwin said expected the board to approve the changes at a meeting this week.

Some Hampton students also favor the change.

"Class rankings hurt more students than they help," said senior Jacquie Pelusi,
18. "There is too much focus on the competition -- it takes away the joy of
learning -- a lot of people are taking classes they should not be in just to get
weighted GPAs."

Several other Allegheny County school districts, including Mt. Lebanon, Upper
St. Clair and Fox Chapel, have already taken similar steps. Hampton officials
say they have been thinking about it since the early 1990s.

Many colleges are accustomed to the absence of class rankings. Eliminating such
rankings, school administrators say, will force at least some colleges to take a
closer look at Hampton students.

"If a university is not familiar with the school district, class rankings could
be a liability," said Hampton Assistant Superintendent Cheryl Griffith, who also
is a member of the committee that is recommending the change.

Hampton will maintain class ranking records, though they will not be listed. If
a college demands them, the school can supply them, Griffith said.

Allen said that in college admission class rankings can actually be deceptive.
"It is an easy out for some colleges, larger schools especially," he said.
Rankings also discourage some students from taking classes that will undermine a
perfect or near perfect grade point average, he said. At Hampton, for example,
many students have opted not to join the school band because there was no
weighted credit for that class. That's why the district created an honors band
class.

"Not listing class rankings will put students in the position of actually
selecting the courses they want to take, not courses that will simply protect
their class ranking," Allen said.

For their part, college admissions officers say they are accustomed to admitting
students from schools that do not rank students.

"It's not unusual at all to get students from schools that do not rank them,"
said B.J. Ore, senior associate director of admissions at the University of
Pittsburgh. "It really doesn't matter to us, and it does not hurt a student's
chances."

Ore said that Pitt might look at class rank, if it is provided. But the
university also considers the number of honors classes taken, SAT scores,
essays, letters of presentation and extracurricular activities.

"We have to look very carefully at the school profile," Ore said. "It gets very
competitive at some high schools."

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2005 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              June 10, 2013 Monday

Rhode Island: Class of 2017 Will Include Top RI High School Students

LENGTH: 391 words

DATELINE: Providence


Rhode Island College, The State of Rhode Island has issued the following news
release:

Some of the state's best and brightest future leaders are headed to Rhode Island
College this fall, according to an analysis by GoLocalProv released Wednesday.

The online news source published a list of where the three top-ranking students
from each of the state's secondary education schools will attend college as
members of the class of 2017.

Rhode Island College will welcome four local valedictorians, from Hope High
School in Providence, Alvarez High School in Providence, the Providence Career
and Technical Academy and the Academy for Career Exploration in Providence.

The college also will welcome Alvarez High School's salutatorian and
number-three ranking student as well as the third-ranking student from
Providence Career and Technical Academy.

RIC has 1,196 confirmed enrollments for the class of 2017. Nine percent of those
students rank in the top 10 percent of their high school class; 21 percent rank
in the top 20 percent of their high school class.

For further information please visit: http://www.ric.edu/
 Rhode Island:  Class of 2017 Will Include Top RI High School Students   Staff
Reporter  Providence, Jun. 10 -- Rhode Island College, The State of Rhode Island
has issued the following news release:  Some of the state's best and brightest
future leaders are headed to Rhode Island College this fall, according to an
analysis by GoLocalProv released Wednesday.  The online news source published a
list of where the three top-ranking students from each of the state's secondary
education schools will attend college as members of the class of 2017.  Rhode
Island College will welcome four local valedictorians, from Hope High School in
Providence, Alvarez High School in Providence, the Providence Career and
Technical Academy and the Academy for Career Exploration in Providence.  The
college also will welcome Alvarez High School's salutatorian and number-three
ranking student as well as the third-ranking student from Providence Career and
Technical Academy.  RIC has 1,196 confirmed enrollments for the class of 2017.
Nine percent of those students rank in the top 10 percent of their high school
class; 21 percent rank in the top 20 percent of their high school class.  For
further information please visit: http://www.ric.edu/ </BODY>

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 21, 2016 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Which university is No. 1? As rankings multiply, it depends on whom you ask.

BYLINE: Nick Anderson

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 931 words


Sources crunch data differently, but it's clear that money still matters

When looking for a ranking of the top colleges in America, many parents,
students and alumni have relied mainly on one source for the past three decades:
U.S. News and World Report.

Now, college ranking is all the rage. There are numbered lists for every taste,
each with a unique data-crunching formula. While U.S. News's rankings reward
wealth and prestige - long a matter of debate, with little variation among the
top schools from year to year - new ranking schemes seek to define which schools
offer the best outcomes for students, the best value, the best student
experience. The proliferation of rankings could shake up higher education,
influencing not just how consumers view the market but also how colleges
position themselves in the competition for students and faculty.

The latest entrant is from the Wall Street Journal and Times Higher Education of
London, which late last month proclaimed Stanford University the No. 1 school in
the United States. The new twist in this list is its use of results from an
online survey of students that attempts to measure engagement with professors
and satisfaction with the school. It also considers alumni salaries, graduation
rates and other factors. The effort's leaders say they are offering an
alternative to a U.S. News formula that they think gives too much weight to
reputation and selectivity.

"We just thought there was a very clear gap and an opportunity to do something
better for the U.S. consumers," said Phil Baty, editor of world university
rankings for Times Higher Education (THE).

Sometimes variations in formulas make little difference in the rankings they
produce. Eight of the top 10 universities on the U.S. News list were also in the
Journal/THE top 10. The other two were right behind.

Johns Hopkins University placed 10th in the U.S. News rankings and was 11th in
the Journal/THE list. The University of Chicago was third in U.S. News and 13th
under the new ranking. The top 10 in both lists are extraordinarily wealthy,
private and exclusive, enrolling fewer than 75,000 undergraduates in all. No
matter what the metrics, money matters.

Many university leaders denounce rankings as misleading but acknowledge their
influence.

"We all know that students read this, parents of students read this, and so it
has a kind of public significance," said Hunter R. Rawlings III, interim
president of Cornell University in Upstate New York.

He said he didn't much care that the Journal/THE list placed his school at No.
9, higher than its U.S. News rank of 15th. "You can always feel good about that
if you want to," Rawlings said. "But I want to know: What does that really tell
me about Cornell? And my answer is: almost nothing."

But Purdue University President Mitchell E. Daniels Jr. said he is proud that
his university ranked 37th on the new list (compared with 60th in U.S. News),
and fourth among public universities, tied with the University of California at
Berkeley. Purdue plans to trumpet the news on billboards in Indiana. Daniels
said he applauds rankings that focus on outcomes for students.

"People are making an effort to measure what really matters, better than
before," he said. "Even so, it's quite right to say you have to look cautiously
and critically at these."

There are other lists. Forbes, Money and Kiplinger rank schools with an emphasis
on value and outcomes. Washington Monthly ranks them on how much good they do
for the public. Niche ranks on a variety of factors, including online feedback
from students. Times Higher Education has a separate global ranking that focuses
on reputation and research.

U.S. News, which started ranking colleges in 1983, remains a leading power in
the field. It sorts schools based on selectivity, faculty resources, graduation
rates and surveys of college leaders and high school counselors, among other
factors. Robert Morse, the chief data strategist for U.S. News, said the
Internet has made it easier to publish rankings, especially those that rely on
public data.

"We definitely welcome new ranking organizations," Morse said. "We believe the
more information students have, the better."

The Obama administration has spurred the evolution of rankings. Several lists
use data the U.S. Education Department unveiled in 2015 on its College Scorecard
website. The new figures show student loan repayment rates for each college and
the average salaries of former students who received federal financial aid, 10
years after they started school. Analysts for Forbes, among others, use the
salary data. U.S. News does not.

"Kids are bottom-line oriented, rightly or wrongly," said Richard Vedder, an
economist who started ranking schools for Forbes in 2008. "They're interested in
having a ticket to middle-class life after college, given the cost of college."

In most rankings, major public universities tend to suffer in comparison with
private schools. Educators say that's unfair because the mission of the public
university, which can have 10 or 20 times the enrollment of a private college,
is completely different. So are the finances.

"We have gotten to the point where we're comparing too many apples and oranges,
and it's counterproductive," said Arizona State University President Michael M.
Crow. He heads a school with more than 70,000 undergraduates on campuses around
the Phoenix area. ASU in Tempe ranks 131st (Journal/THE) and 129th (U.S. News).
But U.S. News also calls it the most innovative school in the country - a
designation Crow is happy to promote.

nick.anderson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                 The Tribune-Democrat (Johnstown, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 26, 2007 Sunday

Area colleges make the grade

BYLINE: Kelly Urban, Tribune-Democrat, Johnstown, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 867 words


Aug. 26--Area students looking to choose a college or university don't have to
look far: Some nationally ranked schools are in our own backyard.

U.S. News & World Report recently released its America's Best Colleges 2008
survey, which has become a guide for students deciding which institution to
attend.

On the list you'll find Pitt-Johnstown, St. Francis University, Penn State and
Pitt.

The magazine breaks its rankings into categories that include national
universities, master's universities, business programs, liberal arts colleges,
baccalaureate colleges and engineering. The master's and baccalaureate
categories are split into northern, southern, midwestern and western regions.

Pitt-Johnstown ranked 26th out of the 30 schools listed in the baccalaureate
colleges, northern category.

"University of Pittsburgh at Johnstown continues to sustain momentum," said Kim
Miller, university spokeswoman. "UPJ once again maintains an enviable position
in the upper echelons of institutional rankings."

Miller said the recognition, for the most part, echoes a history of excellence
but by no means is the only factor in determining the university's worth.

"UPJ's top tier classification is a reflection of the accomplishments of the
talented students, staff and faculty," she said.

Miller cites factors such as alumni achievements, graduation rate and employer
satisfaction, as well as small class size and student/faculty ratios as reasons
for regularly making the survey.

"These factors make for a high quality, individualized and supportive learning
experience," Miller said.

UPJ also received accolades from the Princeton Review's Best Northeastern
Colleges, 2008.

"They noted our strong regional reputation in engineering and business," Miller
said.

St. Francis University finished 75th out of 85 in the master's universities,
northern category.

"(The) U.S. News & World Report listing is certainly an important ranking and
used by prospective students," said Ross Feltz, director of marketing and
community affairs. "It's a good way to measure yourself in some respects."

Although Feltz said he's pleased St. Francis has consistently been listed among
the top schools in the north, he believes it may be misleading to look only at
the numbers.

For example, he said, a larger school in a metro area might attract more
applicants than a smaller, rural school.

"Another aspect that plays a part in the rankings is the rate of alumni giving,"
Feltz said. "The money alumni give usually determines the experience they've
had."

He said a more important ranking to St. Francis is the Great Schools, Great
Prices ranking, also by U.S. News, in which the school's master's program ranked
15th in the northern category.

"This is the one we promote more," Feltz said.

Though Mount Aloysius did not rank in the U.S. News list, the college ranked
29th out of 34 in America's Best Colleges 2007.

"What we are most proud of is the fact Mount Aloysius has been consistently
ranked in the U.S. News & World Report throughout the past decade," said Jackie
Gutshall, director of marketing and public relations.

"The college does not really place a big emphasis on being ranked each year."

Gutshall said many different rankings are released yearly, and to focus solely
on those would be a mistake.

"If we are mentioned and that is how a student learns about Mount Aloysius,
wonderful," she said.

"We are more focused on having prospective students and their families visit the
campus so they can really determine if we are the right for them."

Gutshall said the college recently was named a College of Distinction by Student
Horizons, a group founded by concerned parents and admissions professionals.

Their mission is to enable students to find colleges and universities that
appeal to and complement their personalities and aspirations.

On the national-university ranking of 124 schools, Penn State took the 48th spot
while Pitt claimed 59th.

The magazine uses seven indicators for its rankings, each weighted as a certain
percentage of a 100 percent total. Those factors are assessment by
administrators at peer institutions, retention of students, faculty resources,
student selectivity, financial resources, alumni giving rate and graduation rate
performance.

For the 2008 list, about 92 percent of the schools surveyed returned information
to the magazine.

Rankings

The following is a list of how local schools ranked in U.S. News & World Report
America's Best Colleges 2008:

National universities: Penn State, 48; Pitt, 59, out of 124 institutions.

Baccalaureate colleges, north: Pitt-Johnstown, 26 out of 30 institutions.

Universities-master's, north: St. Francis University, 75 out of 85 institutions.

For complete ranking results, visit the U.S. News & World Report's Web site at
usnews.com and click on "rankings."

To see more of The Tribune-Democrat or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.tribune-democrat.com. Copyright (c) 2007, Tribune-Democrat,
Johnstown, Pa. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070826-JO-Area-colleges-make-the-grade-0826

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JO


                      Copyright 2007 The Tribune-Democrat

                              321 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 15, 2017 Friday

Geneseo Earns Top Teaching Honors in the North for the Seventh Time in 'U.S.
News & World Report' Rankings

LENGTH: 526  words



New York: The State University of New York at Geneseo has issued the following
news release:
. - For the seventh time, SUNY Geneseo tops the "U.S. News & World Report" Best
Undergraduate Teaching rankings among regional universities in the north in its
just-published "Best Colleges 2018" guide. Geneseo has ranked first in that
category for seven of the eight years "U.S. News" has included it in its annual
rankings.


The college also is second in the "Top Public Schools" category for regional
universities in the north and tied for 11th in the general rankings in the same
category, which comprise 659 public and private institutions. Geneseo is among
three public colleges in the top 15 schools in the category.
U.S. News defines a regional university as one that offers a full range of
majors and master's programs but few, if any, doctoral programs.
In addition, Geneseo is on the list of schools "that are much more determined
than others to provide freshmen and all undergraduates an outstanding
educational experience." Within that list, Geneseo is singled out in the
undergraduate research/creative projects category.
"This year's rankings for Geneseo are consistent with previous 'U.S. News'
surveys and with rankings by other publications, attesting to the quality
educational experience students receive at our College," said Geneseo President
Denise A. Battles. "I'm particularly pleased with the top undergraduate teaching
ranking in our category as it directly reflects the commitment our faculty
members continue to place on our students' academic success."
The "U.S. News" Best Undergraduate Teaching colleges were selected through data
collected from administrators at peer institutions within their region who
identified schools where the faculty demonstrated an unusually strong commitment
to undergraduate teaching.
Geneseo's "U.S. News" rankings follow a strong showing in the August "Washington
Monthly" rankings, in which the college ranked first nationally among the
nation's 632 master's universities for its contribution to the public good. In
addition, the highly respected "Fiske Guide to Colleges" placed Geneseo among
its 38 Best-Buy Schools in the U.S., Canada and the United Kingdom in its most
recent guide published in July. Geneseo also is on the Princeton Review's 2018
"The Best 381 Colleges" list for undergraduate education.
"Each of SUNY's 64 colleges and universities helps our students find their
purpose and their passion. Whether it's in research, education, outreach, or
engagement, our colleges and universities strive to achieve excellence in
everything they do," said SUNY Chancellor Kristina M. Johnson. "We are thrilled
that so many of our SUNY campuses have again received favorable rankings by
'U.S. News & World Report.' While we appreciate that rankings are one indication
of quality, it does help demonstrate that SUNY is one of the best national
education systems. Congratulations to each of the SUNY campuses recognized by
the 2018 'U.S. News and World Report rankings.'"

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                             August 17, 2007 Friday

Utah schools go south in national rankings

BYLINE: By Sheena McFarland The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: LOCAL; Education

LENGTH: 359 words


U.S. News and World Report ranked several Utah universities and colleges in its
upcoming issue, though none of the state's schools fared as well this year as
last.

Brigham Young University dropped from 70th-best college nationally to 79th, and
the University of Utah didn't make the rankings despite having ranked 120th last
year.

Westminster College also slid from 20th to 23rd for colleges with master's
programs in the West. Weber State University, which had the 41st-best master's
program in the West last year, went unranked this year because the school does
not require an ACT or SAT score for admission, a new criterion for the rankings.

The judging criteria changed significantly this year, according to U.S. News,
and can account for drops in some categories.

While the schools participate in the rankings because they recognize that
parents and potential students use such guides, they also recognize the
limitations of the criteria.

"While we are pleased with our ranking in U.S. News . . . we also know there are
imperfections in this system," Westminster President Michael Bassis said. "None
of the factors that they rate say anything about what or how learning happens
once the students are in college."

Also, much of the assessment comes from peer institutions' administrators, who
may not have an intimate knowledge of a campus, he said.

In overall rankings for the nation's best colleges, Princeton topped Harvard,
followed by Yale, Stanford and Caltech.

---

* SHEENA MCFARLAND can be contacted at smcfarland@sltrib.com or 801-257-8619.

How Utah schools ranked

Brigham Young University

79th-best national college in the U.S.

26th in "Great Schools, Great Prices"

Marriott Business School

3rd-best international business program

19th-best business school

38th-best undergraduate management program

Fulton College of Engineering

92nd-best engineering program

University of Utah

70th-best College of Engineering

Service Learning Program made the list for "Programs to Look For"

Westminster College

23rd-best "Master's Programs in the West"

15th in "Great Schools, Great Prices"

For more college rankings, visit www.usnews.com/colleges.

Source: U.S. News and World Report

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                           August 29, 2007, Wednesday

W.Va. schools make U.S. News list

BYLINE: James I. Davison

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P1C

LENGTH: 727 words


jdavison@wvgazette.com

Several West Virginia schools made this year's list of college and university
rankings in U.S. News and World Report magazine.

The state's institutions, however, can hardly be viewed as prominent in the
well-known annual issue, which came out last week.

Only four West Virginia schools made U.S. News' national rankings: West Virginia
University lists among third-tier "Best National Universities," while Bethany
College, West Virginia State University and West Virginia Wesleyan College
ranked on the third of four tiers of the "Best Liberal Arts Colleges."

Several other West Virginia institutions can be found in the survey's regional
rankings, spanning from 17th-best baccalaureate Southern college - Davis and
Elkins College - to the hardly noticeable fourth-tier schools of the same
category.

Many of the state's higher education leaders criticized the rankings as
inaccurate and based on deficient research and outdated school reputations.

"The sad thing is that [the rankings are] important, because people read them
and believe them," said University of Charleston President Ed Welch. "I do not
believe that they are reliable indicators of the academic quality of
institutions."

Welch said some institutions are able to alter the numbers they report to U.S.
News in order to look better.

Last spring, Bethany College President G.T. "Buck" Smith was among 11 college
presidents who made national headlines after denouncing the peer assessment
aspect of the U.S. News rankings.

Twenty-five percent of an institution's overall score is based on the peer
survey results, which asks presidents, provosts and admissions deans to rate a
long list of schools, he said.

"It's of the rich get richer, the poor get poorer," Smith said. "You're putting
a numerical assessment on something that you really don't know anything about."

Smith said Bethany, a small private school in the Northern Panhandle, was "the
only school I could comment on ... and it turned out that I wasn't alone."

Placing in the fourth tier of the Southern region, Glenville State College is
among the lowest ranked schools in West Virginia, according to U.S. News.

Glenville President Peter Barr challenged the rankings and agreed with Smith:
too much weight is given to the peer survey, overlooking lesser-known schools,
he said.

"I just don't think it does [schools] justice," he said. "I don't think it
provides the type of relevant information upon which a parent or child should
base their decision about an institution."

This year's U.S. News survey shows graduation and retention rates, as well as
low-income students on campus, said Concord University President Jerry Beasley.

"I really applaud the people at U.S. News in introducing that control factor in
their ratings this year," he said.

Still, he believes that underfunded public schools shouldn't be compared to more
affluent private institutions.

The top 19 schools ranked nationally by U.S. News are private institutions.
Princeton, Harvard and Yale universities top the list.

"All of those really are just indicators of the same general level of financial
support," Beasley said.

He said most of the data used to determine a school's rank deal with the quality
of an institution's students when they are admitted as freshmen.

"No one is doing a very good job of measuring what students learn while they're
in college," he said.

Regardless of the criticisms, some schools are quick to advertise the rankings
and send out press releases.

UC's Welch said some colleges take advantage of their rank to attract
prospective students.

"If you get a good ranking, everybody's going to brag about it," he said. "What
can you put on that Web page so you get their attention so they look further?"

Some view the well-known U.S. News publication as just another source of
information for prospective students.

Higher Education Policy Commission Chancellor Brian Noland said the U.S. News
rankings "play a critical role in the current landscape of higher education. ...
I myself pay close attention to them."

Comparing the academic rankings to college football and basketball coaches'
polls, Noland said, "At a certain point, any ranking methodology contains a
certain degree of objectivity.

"Like anything, they are subjective. Each ranking has its own methodology," he
said.

To contact staff writer James I. Davison, use e-mail or call 348-5119.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Charleston Newspapers

                              324 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 2, 2017 Thursday

Don't Worry. We're Happy!

LENGTH: 533  words



Chestertown: Washington Colleges has issued the following news release:

According to The Princeton Review, Washington College is among the nation's very
best institutions for undergraduate education, but its distinctive approach to
mentoring undergraduates has propelled the college to the very top of the chart
that measures the happiness factor. Washington College ranked 16th in the nation
for Student Happiness, as noted in the 2018 edition of its college guide, The
Best 382 Colleges.


Only about 15% of America's 2,500 four-year colleges and two colleges outside
the U.S. are profiled in the book, which is one of The Princeton Review's most
popular guides. Published annually since 1992, it has detailed profiles of the
colleges with rating scores in eight categories. The book also has ranking lists
of top 20 schools in 62 categories, including the Happiest Students category.
All of the ranking lists are based on The Princeton Review's surveys of students
attending the colleges.
"I'm delighted to see Washington College featured in The Princeton Review as one
of the best 382 colleges for 2018," said College President Kurt M. Landgraf.
"Washington College is all about the students, and I am proud to know that our
ranking as having the happiest students speaks to our student-centric efforts
that help foster memorable experiences for them that will have a positive impact
both on their personal and professional lives."
In its profile on Washington College, The Princeton Review praises WC for its
"truly personalized education," and quotes extensively from Washington College
students the company surveyed for the book. Among their comments: "Living at
Washington College is as good as a college experience can get."
"We chose Washington College for this book because it offers outstanding
academics," said Robert Franek, Princeton Review's editor-in-chief and author of
The Best 382 Colleges. "Our selections are primarily based on our surveys of
administrators at several hundred four-year colleges. We also visit dozens of
colleges each year and give considerable weight to opinions of our staff and our
24-member National College Counselor Advisory Board. Most importantly, we look
at valuable feedback we get from each school's customers -- our surveys of
students attending them. We also keep a wide representation of colleges in the
book by region, size, selectivity, and character."
The Princeton Review does not rank colleges from 1 to 382 in any category.
Instead it uses students' ratings of their schools to compile 62 ranking lists
of top 20 colleges in the book in various categories. The lists in this edition
are entirely based on The Princeton Review's student survey. The 80-question
survey asks students to rate their schools on several topics and report on their
campus experiences at them. Topics range from their assessments of their
professors as teachers to opinions about their school's career services. The
Princeton Review explains the basis for each ranking list at
http://www.princetonreview.com /college-rankings/ranking-methodology.
 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Record ( Stockton, California)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            April 30, 2015 Thursday

Researchers defend college rankings

BYLINE: Reed Fujii, The Record, Stockton, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 486 words


April 30--Brookings Institution researchers, who Wednesday released a new
analysis of U.S. colleges and universities, defended their use of data from
social media platforms and the contribution of geographic location to school
performance.

The new analysis tries to go beyond many popular college rankings, such as
produced by U.S. News & World Report, Money and Kiplinger's magazines, which
largely focus on well-known institutions that draw many of the nation's top
students.

Brookings' Metropolitan Policy Program evened the playing field by adjusting for
student skills and test scores at admission and focused on "value-added"
outcomes, looking at mid-career income of a given college's graduates and the
mix of occupations they enter. And it incorporates data of thousands of both
two- and four-year colleges and universities.

Matt Wetstein, vice president of instruction at San Joaquin Delta College, which
fared poorly, landing in the 25th percentile of Brookings' rankings, criticized
the institute's use of data from Payscale, a site that elicits salary
information from users, and LinkedIn, a career-oriented social media site, for
occupational data.

"These 'crowd-source' sites are relying on self created salary profiles or work
profiles that do not reflect the full breadth of the U.S. workforce," Wetstein
said.

Those are fair criticisms, said Jonathan Rothwell, Brookings fellow and
co-author of the report.

The institute's analysis did look at possible bias in the self-selected salary
and occupational data.

He said Payscale data showed a high correlation to salary information collected
by Texas employment officials as well as to U.S. Census data.

"There probably is still some remaining bias we weren't able to capture,"
Rothwell said.

He said the researchers also did try to adjust for bias in LinkedIn data.

And while the Brookings rankings were adjusted for some geographic differences,
such as the cost of living in different states, location does influence the
rankings.

Take, for instance, two of the highest-ranked California community colleges.
Bakersfield College benefits from the strong and, at the time of the study,
thriving petroleum industry. San Diego City College graduates often find good
paying jobs with the Navy, Qualcomm or Scripps Health.

"So is this a function of proximity to good job growth centers or a function of
something the colleges are doing?" Wetstein asked. "In other words, is the value
added a residue of the location, location, location?"

Location should play a part in the rankings, Rothstein answered.

"It seems to be to a strength of the college," he said, "if it has some kind of
connections to the regional economy."

-- Contact reporter Reed Fujii at (209) 546-8253 or rfujii@recordnet.com Follow
him on Twitter @ReedBiznews.

___ (c)2015 The Record (Stockton, Calif.) Visit The Record (Stockton, Calif.) at
www.recordnet.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150430-SK-Researchers-defend-college-rankings-0430-20150430

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SK


                           Copyright 2015 The Record

                              326 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      February 7, 2012 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

SuperScholar.org Publishes First Annual Smart Choice Ranking of Schools for
Online Nursing Degrees

LENGTH: 366  words


New Delhi, Feb. 7 -- Online education and career information website
SuperScholar published its first annual "Smart Choice" ranking of the top 25
schools for online nursing degrees. The ranking can be found at
http://www.superscholar.org/rankings/online/best-nursing-schools/.

SuperScholar editors developed the Smart Choice ranking as a tool to help
prospective students make a smart choice about where to invest in their
education. The ranking helps fill a void in quality, unbiased rankings and
reviews of online nursing schools. In order to be considered for inclusion in
the ranking, an institution had to be a regionally accredited college or
university listed in the National Center for Education Statistics database and
offer an online nursing degree program accredited by either the CCNE or NLNAC.
The nursing schools that met this initial accreditation criterion were then
evaluated based on reputation and prestige, program quality, student
satisfaction and cost. The result is a ranking of online nursing schools that
offers prospective students a helpful tool for making a smart choice about where
to earn an online nursing degree.

The University of Illinois at Chicago in Chicago, Illinois, earned the honor of
the top Smart Choice school for an online nursing degree. Other ranked schools
include (in alphabetical order):

* Anna Maria College

* Benedictine University

* Chamberlain College of Nursing

* Clarkson College

* Drexel University College of Nursing and Health Professions

* Georgetown University Department of Nursing

* Gonzaga University Department of Nursing

* Grand Canyon University

* Indiana State University College of Nursing, Health, and Human Services

* Kent State College of Nursing

* Liberty University

* Loyola University New Orleans School of Nursing

* Nebraska Methodist College or Nursing and Allied Health

* Robert Morris University (PA)

* Sacred Heart University Department of Nursing

* Saint Peter's College

* Saint Xavier University

* The George Washington University School of Nursing

* University of Cincinnati College of Nursing

* University of Colorado Denver

* University of Saint Mary

* Vanderbilt University School of Nursing

* Walden University

* Western Governors University

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 19, 2017 Thursday

CCNY scores highly on global & Chronicle of Higher ed. rankings

LENGTH: 290  words



New York: City University of New York, City College has issued the following
news release:
Two new rankings reflect The City College of New York's impressive academic
standing internationally and its ability to boost remarkably the social mobility
of its students.


In its 2017 appraisal of the top schools globally, the Center for World
University Rankings places City College, whose student population represents
89.6% of the world's 193 sovereign states, in the top 1.2%.
CCNY ranked # 323 among the more than 27,000 degree-granting institutions of
higher education worldwide according to the CWUR, which conducts the largest
academic ranking of global universities.
At home, The Chronicle of Higher Education ranks CCNY #2 nationally among
four-year public institutions with the highest student mobility rates. CCNY's
mobility rate was pegged at 11.72%
The mobility rates reflect a measure of the percentage of all students in a
birth cohort at a particular college whose parents were in the bottom 20 percent
for household income, and who reached the top 20 percent for individual
earnings. Six other City University of New York institutions were in the top 10
for mobility rates among four-year public colleges.
In other favorable rankings this fall, CCNY earned recognition nationally for
its diversity. The Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education 2018 College
Rankings placed City College at joint #8 for environment with three other
schools.
In addition, the U.S. News & World Report 2018 rankings named CCNY as one of the
top 100 Best Regional Universities in the North and a Top Public School in the
North.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                           September 17, 2017 Sunday

Where do BYU and the Utah universities rank?

LENGTH: 774 words


By Scott Taylor

Deseret News

PROVO - In its latest listings of colleges and universities across the country,
U.S. News ranks Brigham Young University 61st overall among national
universities and Salt Lake City's Westminster College 19th among western
regional universities.

U.S. News has offered its Best Colleges rankings for more than 30 years, with
its 2018 version - released Monday night for prospective students planning for
the 2018-19 school year - featuring overall and specific rankings, listings and
extensive data for more than 1,800 colleges and universities.

Each institution is given its own web-page treatment, with segments providing an
overview, rankings, and information on academics, student life, financial aid,
campus safety and the application process.

Besides the overall ranking, BYU was ranked third in Accounting in the National
Universities category, 11th in Best Value Schools, 75th (tie) in High School
Counselor Rankings, and 82nd (tie) in Best Undergraduate Engineering Programs
among those offering a doctorate degree.

BYU has been ranked in the top 100 national universities since 2000. Its 2018
ranking is up from No. 68 last year.

The rankings were based on points given quantitative and qualitative measures on
15 indicators in seven different, weighted measures. The seven include
graduation and retention rates (22.5 percent), undergraduate academic reputation
(22.5 percent), faculty resources (20 percent), student selectivity (12.5
percent), financial resources (10 percent), graduation rate performance (7.5
percent) and alumni giving rate (5 percent).

Five other colleges and universities tied with BYU for 61st place in the
rankings with a score of 60 out of 100 possible points - Maryland, Fordham,
Southern Methodist, Syracuse and Worcester Polytechnic Institute.

Princeton University led the National University rankings with a perfect score
of 100, followed by Harvard University (98). The University of Chicago (96) and
Yale University (96) shared the No. 3 spot.

Rounding out the top 10 colleges and universities were Columbia, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Stanford, Pennsylvania, Duke and California Institute
of Technology.

BYU ranked just ahead of No. 67 Clemson (59 points), No. 68 Pittsburgh (58) and
a six-way tie for No. 69 at 57 points between American University, Rutgers,
Texas A&M, Minnesota, Virginia Tech and Stevens Institute of Technology.

And BYU placed just behind another grouping of five universities tied at No. 56
with 61 points apiece - George Washington, Purdue, Connecticut, Texas and
Washington.

As for the ranking of Utah's in-state institutions, two - the University of Utah
and Utah State University - earned placement in the National Universities
category. Utah-based Western Governors University was listed but unranked in the
category.

* University of Utah - With a score of 48 points, Utah ranked 110th (tie) in
National Universities. Its top publicly visual ranking was a No. 51 ranking in
Top Public Schools, but "locked" rankings only visible via a paid online
subscription to see more information included a No. 45 ranking in Business
Programs and a No. 27 in Entrepreneurship. Other rankings included No. 61 (tie)
in Best Undergraduate Engineering Programs, No. 136 in Best Value Schools and
No. 156 in High School Counselor Rankings.

* Utah State University - With a score of 28 points, USU ranked 216st (tie) in
National Universities. Its highest ranking was No. 110 in Engineering Programs
where the highest engineering degree is a doctorate as well as No. 122 (tie) in
Top Public Schools, No. 183 (tie) in Business Programs and No. 209 (tie) in High
School Counselor Rankings.

Listed in the Regional Universities West category:

* Westminster College ranked 19th (tie) overall, eighth in Best Value Schools
and 12th (tie) in Best Colleges for Veterans.

* Southern Utah University was 76th (tie) overall as well as No. 25 (tie) in Top
Public Schools and No. 147 (tie) in Engineering Programs where no doctorate
degrees are offered.

* Weber State University ranked 86th (tie) overall as well as 31st in Top Public
Schools, 74th (tie) in Engineering Programs (no doctorate) and 331st (tie) in
Business Programs.

* Utah Valley University - UVU was unranked in the Regional universities West
category, but it did receive a No. 169 (tie) ranking in Engineering Programs (no
doctorate).

And in the Regional Colleges West category, Brigham Young University-Idaho
ranked 13th overall and 38th in Engineering Programs (no doctorate), with
Brigham Young University-Hawaii 18th overall. Dixie State and Snow College were
unranked in the same category.

Email: taylor@deseretnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2017 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

                              329 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             April 4, 2017 Tuesday
                               Ahmedabad Edition

MHRD RANKINGS - Little to cheer for city in rankings, IIT-B stays no. 2

SECTION: TIMES NATION | MUMBAI

LENGTH: 562 words


Educational institutes across the city are shocked after the latest National
Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2017 data came out on Monday.

The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay maintained its second position among
engineering colleges, but the Institute of Chemical Technology dropped from 2 to
25 as a university. Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI) does not
figure among the top 100 and Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) enters the
charts at 49 in the overall rankings.

St Xavier's College is ranked 40th among colleges and five of the city's
management schools have made it to the top 50. The Indian Institute of Science
ranks first, followed by IIT-Madras and IIT-Bombay in the overall NIRF 2017
rankings. Scores for teaching, learning and resources, and graduation outcomes
pulled IIT-B's rank down. It did well on parameters like research and
professional practice, outreach and inclusivity , and public perception.

\x93It is a matter of great satisfaction for IIT-Madras that it continues to be
ranked number 1among engineering institutions in the country . We have improved
our performance on most parameters, and quite significantly too on some key
ones,\x93 said Bhaskar Ramamurthi, director, IIT-Madras.Many from the city felt
there were issues with the scoring. ICT director G DYadav said he needed to
analyze the data before he could comment on the college sliding down the ranks.
\x93I

think among their criteria, central in stitutes and the population of stu dents
has been some of the important considerations. Also, I feel marks ha ve not been
normalised,\x93 said Yadav.

Started in 2015, NIRF outlines a methodology to rank educational in stitutions
across the country . The pa rameters used for ranking broadly cover teaching,
learning and resources, research and pro fessional practices, graduation out
come, outreach and inclusivity , and perception. Although the broad para meters
remained the same this year, there were significant changes in so me of the
sub-parameters. Also, besi des ranking institutions under speci fic disciplines
as done last year, every large institution has also been given a common overall
rank this year.

In Mumbai, another of its top eng ineering colleges made it to the ran kings
-National Institute of Indust rial Engineering. Sardar Patel Colle ge of
Engineering, VJTI, Fr. C Rodri gues Institute of Technology , Navi

Mumbai; and Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering are on the charts. P
Sawant, principal of Sardar Patel College, said the quality of students, the
efforts invested by faculty and the research conducted was what saw the college
among the top colleges.

Among the city's general colleges, three applied for the rankings -SIES, Sion;
St Andrews, Bandra; and St Xavier's College. St Xavier's principal Fr Agnelo
Menezes said autonomy has got them this far. \x93Not a single non-autonomous
college has made it.But we got badly hit in research and that is bound to happen
as we are largely an undergraduate college and there is no great research taking
place,\x93 he said. Mumbai University was placed in the 151-200 band in the
overall rankings, and -embarrassingly --among 101-150 even on the universities
list. The Internal Quality Assurance Council of MU is having a re-look at the
data submitted to NIRF . \x93We are sure of our performance,\x93 said PRO
Leeladhar Bansod.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             April 4, 2017 Tuesday
                               Ahmedabad Edition

MHRD RANKINGS - Little to cheer for city in rankings, IIT-B stays no. 2

SECTION: TIMES NATION | MUMBAI

LENGTH: 562 words


Educational institutes across the city are shocked after the latest National
Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2017 data came out on Monday.

The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay maintained its second position among
engineering colleges, but the Institute of Chemical Technology dropped from 2 to
25 as a university. Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI) does not
figure among the top 100 and Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) enters the
charts at 49 in the overall rankings.

St Xavier's College is ranked 40th among colleges and five of the city's
management schools have made it to the top 50. The Indian Institute of Science
ranks first, followed by IIT-Madras and IIT-Bombay in the overall NIRF 2017
rankings. Scores for teaching, learning and resources, and graduation outcomes
pulled IIT-B's rank down. It did well on parameters like research and
professional practice, outreach and inclusivity , and public perception.

\x93It is a matter of great satisfaction for IIT-Madras that it continues to be
ranked number 1among engineering institutions in the country . We have improved
our performance on most parameters, and quite significantly too on some key
ones,\x93 said Bhaskar Ramamurthi, director, IIT-Madras.Many from the city felt
there were issues with the scoring. ICT director G DYadav said he needed to
analyze the data before he could comment on the college sliding down the ranks.
\x93I

think among their criteria, central in stitutes and the population of stu dents
has been some of the important considerations. Also, I feel marks ha ve not been
normalised,\x93 said Yadav.

Started in 2015, NIRF outlines a methodology to rank educational in stitutions
across the country . The pa rameters used for ranking broadly cover teaching,
learning and resources, research and pro fessional practices, graduation out
come, outreach and inclusivity , and perception. Although the broad para meters
remained the same this year, there were significant changes in so me of the
sub-parameters. Also, besi des ranking institutions under speci fic disciplines
as done last year, every large institution has also been given a common overall
rank this year.

In Mumbai, another of its top eng ineering colleges made it to the ran kings
-National Institute of Indust rial Engineering. Sardar Patel Colle ge of
Engineering, VJTI, Fr. C Rodri gues Institute of Technology , Navi

Mumbai; and Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering are on the charts. P
Sawant, principal of Sardar Patel College, said the quality of students, the
efforts invested by faculty and the research conducted was what saw the college
among the top colleges.

Among the city's general colleges, three applied for the rankings -SIES, Sion;
St Andrews, Bandra; and St Xavier's College. St Xavier's principal Fr Agnelo
Menezes said autonomy has got them this far. \x93Not a single non-autonomous
college has made it.But we got badly hit in research and that is bound to happen
as we are largely an undergraduate college and there is no great research taking
place,\x93 he said. Mumbai University was placed in the 151-200 band in the
overall rankings, and -embarrassingly --among 101-150 even on the universities
list. The Internal Quality Assurance Council of MU is having a re-look at the
data submitted to NIRF . \x93We are sure of our performance,\x93 said PRO
Leeladhar Bansod.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                             Metro Herald (Ireland)

                            October 3, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Trinity sliding further down college rankings

BYLINE: BRIAN HUTTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 252 words


TRINITY College Dublin has plunged down the rankings of the world's best
universities.

While it remains the top-ranked third-level institution in the country, its
reputation is waning as rivals University College Dublin and University College
Cork climb up the league table. Phil Baty, editor of Times Higher Education
Rankings, said Trinity's slip in standards should send out a warning signal.

'Trinity's decline should be cause for alarm,' he said. 'When the national
flagship falls, it can affect the standing of the rest of the country.

'However, University College Dublin and University College Cork had strong
years.' Last year, Trinity was ranked 110th in the list of the world's top seats
of learning, a year after falling out of the top 100. But its latest ranking is
129th place. UCD climbed from 187th place to 161st and UCC jumped from between
301st and 350th to between 276th and 300th.

NUI Galway remains in the range between 301st and 350th while NUI Maynooth makes
no change in its place between 351st and 400th.

California Institute of Technology holds on to the world No.1 spot for the third
year in a row, followed by Harvard and Oxford, which are tied for second place.
Ranking compilers said there was an 'alarming' drop in standards across Europe.

Last month, the annual QS World University Rankings, put Trinity as the 61st
best university in the world. TCD dean of research, Prof Vinny Cahill said:
'Trinity's ranking underlines the need for more sustained public investment in
higher education.'

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTReire


                          Copyright 2013 Metro Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 12, 2017 Tuesday

Brown places among top universities in national and global rankings

LENGTH: 913  words



Providence: Brown University has issued the following news release:

In recognition of its exceptional undergraduate teaching, student / faculty
research opportunities, generous financial aid and distinctive student
experience, a wide range of higher education guides and rankings have placed
Brown among the nation's -- and the world's -- top universities.


In the annual U.S. News and World Report rankings of the nation's best
universities, released on Sept. 12, Brown retained the No. 14 overall slot. The
publication also named Brown to its top rankings for strongest commitment to
undergraduate teaching (No. 3), high school counselors' top college picks (No.
5), best economic diversity (No. 8) and best value (No. 14).
Many of this year's rankings reflect Brown's global reputation for an
innovative, student-centered undergraduate experience rooted in the Open
Curriculum, which positions students as the architects of their own education,
and opportunities for research, internships, international study and
community-based learning.
U.S. News and World Report, for example, highlighted Brown's distinction in six
of eight programmatic areas that education experts, including staff members of
the Association of American Colleges and Universities, agree are key to a
high-quality undergraduate experience: learning communities, senior capstone,
service learning, study abroad, writing in the disciplines, and undergraduate
research/creative projects.
In two other rankings released within the last year and focused on top colleges
and universities in America, Brown ranked No. 9 on Forbes' list and No. 19 in
the Wall Street Journal / Times Higher Education ranking. Internationally, Brown
placed 50th in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2018 and
landed the No. 53 slot in the QS World University Rankings.
The World Economic Forum's most recent ranking of the 25 best colleges for
students who want to change the world, Brown ranked No. 7 -- an acknowledgement
of the Brown community's pervasive social consciousness and the commitment of so
many students to apply knowledge gained in classrooms to further the public
good.
"No ranking can accurately reflect the distinctive character of a Brown
education, but we are pleased that such a wide range of rankings have recognized
the high-quality experience that awaits students who choose to study on College
Hill," University officials said. "Our distinction lies in our academic
excellence, the rigor of our undergraduate and graduate programs, intensive
collaboration among a diverse group of faculty and students and the dedication
among the Brown community to addressing the most complex challenges of the
world."
In recognition of Brown's generous financial aid -- which meets the full
demonstrated financial need of every student -- and success in preparing
graduates for life and careers, Brown placed prominently in several rankings
designed to reflect value and return on the investment required to complete an
undergraduate education: 21st on Kiplingers' list of best college values; 26th
on Payscale's list of best universities and colleges by salary potential; and
34th on Money's list of best colleges for your money. Times Higher Education
also ranked Brown the No. 40 institution worldwide in a ranking focused on
preparing graduates to be leaders in the professional world.
Additionally, the University appeared in Princeton Review's unranked compilation
of the country's best 382 colleges and was recognized on eight of their top 20
lists, including LGBTQ-friendly (No. 11), volume of race/class interaction (No.
14), best college theater (No. 14) and universities where students study the
most (No. 20).
A first-ever guide to the best colleges for Jewish students included Brown at
the No. 8 slot in the U.S., noting Brown RISD Hillel's role "at the forefront of
shaping some of the most important features of vibrant and sustainable Jewish
community in America." And another ranking this year recognized Brown for its
success in graduating underrepresenting students of color.
The University's graduate programs placed highly in U.S. News and World Report
rankings this year as well. Five programs ranked among the top 30 in their
field: economics (No. 19), English (No. 13), history (No. 16), psychology (No.
26) and sociology (No. 24). In the Center for World University Rankings subject
rankings, which ranks schools based on the number of faculty and student
research articles in top-tier journals, Brown ranked No. 5 in substance abuse
research, No. 7 in clinical psychology and No. 9 in biomedical social science.

In addition, the Warren Alpert School of Medicine ranked 21st in primary care
and 31st in research, making it one of only 14 schools that were ranked in the
top quartile on both research and primary care.
"These rankings underscore the Graduate School's work to integrate
student-centered education with groundbreaking research and recognize the
enduring ways in which Brown graduate students contribute to advancing
knowledge," University officials said. "And the medical school's rankings
exemplify our commitment to making the Warren Alpert Medical School an
exceptional institution where students not only learn to provide the best care
possible, but work with faculty and clinicians to turn discoveries into medical
breakthroughs."
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                             July 14, 2016 Thursday

CSUC ranked highly in nation

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 236 words

ABSTRACT

Chico State University is ranked among the nation's best colleges and
universities by Money Magazine.

FULL TEXT

Chico State University has been recognized as one of the top schools in the
nation in Money Magazine's 2016 best colleges ranking.

The rankings, which were published Monday, included 705 U.S. colleges and
universities, with Chico State coming in at No. 95, the highest of any CSU
campus.

The goal of the rankings, according to the magazine's website, is to determine
which of the approximately 2,000 four-year colleges and universities in the U.S.
delivers the best value in terms of quality, affordable education that prepares
students for "rewarding careers."

Money Magazine examined graduation rates, student to faculty ratio, cost of
obtaining a degree, student debt and graduate earnings to determine the rankings
. The schools included have the best overall combination of quality,
affordability and success of graduates and are out-performing their direct
competitors, Money Magazine senior writer Kim Clark said, according to a Chico
State press release.

Last year, Chico State was ranked no. 154 in Money's best colleges rankings. In
Money's ranking of the "50 best public colleges," in the U.S., Chico State is
ranked No. 40. Chico State was listed as No. 8 in Money's "50 colleges that add
the most value," second only to UC Davis among California schools.

The complete rankings can be foundonline.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Brattleboro Reformer (Vermont)

                          September 27, 2017 Wednesday

Marlboro College continues to rise in US News ranking

SECTION: B: EDUCATION; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 252 words


MARLBORO - U.S. News & World Report released its annual ranking of the best
national colleges and universities on Sept. 12, and Marlboro College once again
moved up the list, relative to last year. Marlboro was ranked No. 117 among
national liberal arts colleges, which is a rise from its rank of No. 128 last
year and No. 136 the year before. The total number of colleges and universities
surveyed was 1,611.

"We are delighted with Marlboro's continued rise in ranking by U.S. News," said
Kevin Quigley, Marlboro College president. "Although it is hard for these
ranking systems to fully capture the profound academic experience of a place
like Marlboro, we are pleased that U.S. News acknowledges our place among our
peers."

U.S. News uses objective measures of academic quality, graduation rates, faculty
information, and admissions data to obtain its rankings. For example, Marlboro
is one of only three national liberal arts colleges on the list with 100 percent
of its classes having less than 20 students. It combines these with measures of
academic reputation, determined by a peer assessment survey.

"We consider U.S. News a valuable resource for prospective students, but it's
also important to point out many key characteristics of a college like Marlboro
that are not measured by rankings," said Quigley. "These include Marlboro's
selfdirected learning, interdisciplinary approaches, close collegial
relationships with faculty, and the sense of community instilled by shared
governance in our Town Meetings."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 Brattleboro Reformer
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 24, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rankers by the Dozen Ask the No. 1 Question

BYLINE: By VICTOR MATHER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1093 words


Every college football fan has an opinion on who the best teams are, based on
observation or perhaps gut instinct.

But an increasing number are taking it further and using computers and
statistics to try to determine scientifically the answer to that age-old
question: Who is No. 1? (And No. 2 and No. 3 and No. 124?)

When Soren Sorensen came to the United States from Denmark in 1984, ''I had no
idea what football was,'' he said. ''I got interested in it from a mathematical
aspect. And also the spectacle.''

Sorensen, a physics professor at the University of Tennessee, spent a few weeks
creating a system to rank teams, and 20 years later, he still uses it to produce
weekly rankings.

He is not the only one. Computer rankings are proliferating, said Kenneth
Massey, a professor of math at Carson-Newman in Jefferson City, Tenn., who has
been ranking teams since 1995. ''When I started, there were six or seven,'' he
said. ''But every year, it gets bigger and bigger.'' Massey currently tracks
more than 100 college football rankings.

With so many competitors, what is the appeal of creating one's own rankings?

''It's kind of a nerdy hobby,'' Massey said. ''It combines sports with math and
computers, three things that don't ordinarily go together.''

Though computer rankings can be complex -- Sorensen cautions that his method
''is not easily explainable to people who have not had linear algebra'' -- they
mostly stick to similar templates. ''All have the same general principle but use
different mathematical models,'' Massey said.

Each team has a number, known as a power ranking. Before two teams play, their
rankings are compared to estimate what the margin of victory might be: a team
with a power ranking of 100 would be expected to beat one with a ranking of 90
by 10 points. Normally, an additional 3 points is added to the home team, to
reflect its inherent advantage. If the actual margin of victory varies from this
figure, the power rankings are adjusted for the next week.

There are no variables for heart, clutch, payback or other terms beloved by
football announcers and journalists. ''Computers don't take into account
injuries or psychological factors,'' Massey said.

As might be expected, most computer rankings are topped by Alabama, by consensus
the country's best team. But not all are. Sorensen's puts Notre Dame in the No.
1 slot.

''Alabama at the moment has not played a very strong schedule,'' he said.
Michigan, which seemed like a significant victory at the time, ''has turned out
to be just average,'' he said. ''The key in any computer rankings is to meet
strong teams.''

Some rankers have included factors beyond the final score, like yards gained,
turnovers or how well rested a team is. Justin Moore, a software engineer from
San Jose, Calif., runs a site, The Tempo-Free Gridiron, that focuses mainly on
teams' points scored and points allowed, per 100 plays.

Because of its deliberate style, Alabama plays in games that wind up having only
about 150 plays. But a fast team like Oregon might be in a game with 190 plays.
Oregon may score more than Alabama, but it takes more plays to do so. Moore's
system ''sees through teams that score a lot of points because they run so many
plays,'' he said. He has Oregon ranked only No. 5.

Jon Dokter, who teaches astronomy in Tucson, has applied his rankings system to
every college football season back to 1869. He started the Entropy System in
1993 and ''put a huge amount of time into collecting scores for every season.''
He judges the Army team of 1945, which starred Doc Blanchard and Glenn Davis and
beat Notre Dame, 48-0, as the most dominant team in college football history,
ahead of the 1971 and 1995 Nebraska teams.

The popularity of computer rankings for college football, specifically, Dokter
says, is because of the sport's structure: ''the bowl system not producing an
official national champion, the small number of games.'' Unlike most other
sports, he notes, college football teams ''can only play about 10 percent of all
other teams in a given year; that necessitates the power ranking'' to determine
the best teams.

Despite the voluminous data he has collected, he says computers are far from
''solving'' the riddle of college football.

''I would consider sports prediction more difficult than professional research
science on the physical world,'' he said. ''Predicting sports is one of the
hardest things there is.''

The N.C.A.A. uses six computer systems, including Massey's, to help determine
the two teams that play in the Bowl Championship Series national championship
game. But the N.C.A.A. has an important caveat: no system it uses may factor in
margin of victory. The computer must treat a 45-0 shellacking exactly the same
as an overtime nail-biter. The N.C.A.A. has said that it is concerned that if it
considers margin of victory, teams will be encouraged to run up the score.

One of the B.C.S.'s computer rankings is provided by Jeff Sagarin, the dean of
college rankings, who has been publishing his ratings in USA Today since 1985.
But he also produces a ranking that does include margin of victory. And he has
little doubt which is more accurate. ''When you throw away the scores, you're
throwing away a huge amount of important information,'' he said.

He said that his own B.C.S.-approved system ranks Alabama only third. ''I'm kind
of nervous about a system that doesn't have Alabama No. 1,'' he said. As for the
N.C.A.A.'s preference for emphasizing wins to the exclusion of score margins, he
said, ''they love the cliché 'a win is a win,' which to me is one of the most
vapid clichés of all time.''

Rankers, especially those who are academics, like to point out that the issues
they wrestle with also have practical applications

''There are so many parallels with things Google and Facebook do,'' Massey said.
In producing its top search results after a query, ''it turns out Google uses
basically the same algorithm you use to rank sports teams,'' he said. Sagarin
has used his methods to study tax policy and presidential politics. The American
Statistical Association publishes The Journal of Quantitative Analysis in Sports
to cover topics like these.

But no matter how powerful the computer or how complex its formula, no system
will ever be perfect. Programmers can make very good evaluations, but they can
never know for sure who is actually going to win the games.

''Fortunately, there is an inherent random element,'' Sorensen said. ''I love
the math of it, but I also enjoy that all they are doing is not controlled
completely by some math equations.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/24/sports/ncaafootball/college
-football-computer-rankings-proliferate.html

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company

                              336 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday

Little to cheer for Mumbai institutes in national rankings, IIT-B stays no. 2

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 642 words


MUMBAI: Educational institutes across the city are shocked after the latest
National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2017 data came out on Monday.The
Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay maintained its second position among
engineering colleges, but the Institute of Chemical Technology dropped from 2 to
25 as a university. Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI) does not
figure among the top 100 and Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) enters the
charts at 49 in the overall rankings.St Xavier's College is ranked 40th among
colleges and five of the city's management schools have made it to the top
50.The Indian Institute of Science ranks first, followed by IIT-Madras and
IIT-Bombay in the overall NIRF 2017 rankings. Scores for teaching, learning and
resources, and graduation outcomes pulled IIT-B's rank down. It did well on
parameters like research and professional practice, outreach and inclusivity,
and public perception."It is a matter of great satisfaction for IIT-Madras that
it continues to be ranked number 1 among engineering institutions in the
country.

We have improved our performance on most parameters, and quite significantly too
on some key ones," said Bhaskar Ramamurthi, director, IIT-Madras.Many from the
city felt there were issues with the scoring.ICT director G D Yadav said he
needed to analyze the data before he could comment on the college sliding down
the ranks. "I think among their criteria, central institutes and the population
of students has been some of the important considerations. Also, I feel the
marks have not been normalised," said Yadav . Started in 2015, NIRF outli nes a
methodology to rank educational institutions across the country . The parameters
used for ranking broadly cover teaching, learning and resources, research and
professional practices, graduation outcome, outreach and inclusivity , and
perception. Although the broad parameters remained the same this year, there
were significant changes in some of the sub-parameters. Also, besides ranking
institutions under specific disciplines as done last year, every large
institution has also been given a common overall rank this year.In Mumbai,
another of its top engineering colleges made it to the rankings - National
Institute of Industrial Engineering. Sardar Patel College of Engineering, VJTI,
Fr. C Rodrigues Institute of Technology, Navi Mumbai; and Fr. Conceicao
Rodrigues College of Engineering are on the charts. P Sawant, principal of
Sardar Patel College, said the quality of students, the efforts invested by
faculty and the research conducted was what saw the college among the top
colleges.Among the city's general colleges, three applied for the rankings
-SIES, Sion; St Andrews, Bandra; and St Xavier's College. St Xavier's principal
Fr Agnelo Menezes said autonomy has got them this far. "Not a single
non-autonomous college has made it. But we got badly hit in research and that is
bound to happen as we are largely an undergraduate college and there is no great
research taking place," he said.Within the top 50 on the management list were
five from the city - National Institute of Industrial Engineering, S P Jain
Institute of Management & Research, Narsee Monjee Institute of Management
Studies, K J Somaiya Institute of Management Studies & Research, and L N
Welingkar Institute of Management Development & Research. In the 51-75 band was
the Lala Lajpatrai Institute of Management. Conspicuously missing was the
Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies.Mumbai University was placed in
the 151-200 band in the overall rankings, and - embarrassingly - among 101-150
even on the universities list. The Internal Quality Assurance Council of MU is
having a relook at the data submitted to NIRF. "We are sure of our performance,"
said PRO Leeladhar Bansod.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                              April 1, 2005 Friday

U. grabs 21 spots in top school rankings

BYLINE: Tiffany Erickson and Marin Decker Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 592 words


The University of Utah racked up 21 rankings this year in the U.S. News and
World Report's annual list of top college and university undergraduate programs
Friday.

Brigham Young University and Utah State University also grabbed a handful of
spots in areas, including business and education.

The magazine ranked schools on the basis of peer assessment, graduation rate,
faculty resources, entering student grades and test scores, financial resources
and alumni giving rate. While there are many college rankings out there, the
U.S. News and World Report is a heavily used resource by high school students
preparing to apply for college.

The U.'s David Eccles School of Business made the biggest jump in rankings,
moving up eight spots from the 64th position to 56th in just one year.

"Our school has received a lot of recognition recently. We've had some great
national news coverage showcasing the accomplishments of our students. . . . I
think people are starting to take greater notice of the exceptional work being
done by our faculty and students," said Jack Brittain, dean of the business
school.

The U.'s Health Sciences Center is a perennial strong performer in the U.S. News
rankings. Its College of Pharmacy is ranked 14th in the nation, tying with the
University of Southern California and the University of Washington.

"This latest ranking is yet another confirmation of the College of Pharmacy's
outstanding programs," said A. Lorris Betz, senior vice president for health
sciences. "The college consistently ranks as one of the top research programs in
grants awarded from the National Institutes of Health. The U.S. News ranking
shows that the U. College of Pharmacy also offers one of the best training
programs in the country."

BYU's business and law schools were both ranked in the top 40 by the magazine,
but they dropped a spot from last year. The J. Reuben Clark Law School is ranked
35th, down from 34th last year and 31st the year before. The school is also
ranked 16th most selective among law schools, ahead of Cornell and Duke
universities.

The Marriott School of Management is ranked 40th, down from 39th last year and
29th the year before. But the accounting specialty at the business school
climbed a few spots, from 16th last year to 12th this year.

Marriott School Dean Ned Hill said he is pleased by the rankings but views
student development as the school's top priority.

"We're gratified by the recognition this ranking brings to our students and to
the university," Hill said. "Even so, the most important measure of our success
remains the development of men and women of faith, character and professional
ability."

Two other BYU colleges were ranked in the top 100. The Ira F. Fulton College of
Engineering, which debuted on the U.S. News list last year at 81st, is ranked
86th. The David O. McKay School of Education is ranked 85th.

Additionally, USU's College of Education and Human Services is ranked 35th in
the nation, and Department of Special Education and Rehabilitation is ranked
19th, tied with the U.

USU also ranked fifth in the nation for research dollars generated at $25.8
million.

U.S. News bases rankings on expert opinion about program quality and statistics
that measure the quality of a school's faculty, research and students. Data come
from surveys of nearly 1,300 programs and almost 9,600 academics and
professionals conducted in fall 2004.

For a complete listing of the U.S. News & World Report rankings of America's
Best Colleges, visit www.usnews.com. E-mail: terickson@desnews.com;
mdecker@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

                              338 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                             August 17, 2007 Friday
                                 Metro Edition

Colleges increasingly avoiding `Best' label;
Minnesota school joins 60 others not taking part in U.S. News' annual rankings.

BYLINE: Jeff Shelman, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 905 words


The bookshelves will soon be bursting with guides for the next group of high
school students looking to make college choices.

U.S. News & World Report's 2008 version of "America's Best Colleges" will be
online beginning today. The Princeton Review's will be available next week. More
will follow from there.

But what exactly do these rankings mean? Do they really paint an accurate
picture?

A growing number of schools - especially liberal arts institutions - don't think
so. Arguing that the rankings are little more than a "beauty pageant" based on
perceived reputations, one group is choosing not to participate in the U.S. News
rankings.

Sixty-one U.S. college presidents, including one in Minnesota, have signed a
letter from the nonprofit Education Conservancy saying that they will not
participate in U.S. News' reputational survey - a poll in which administrators
rate other institutions - nor will they use the rankings in marketing their
institutions to prospective students.

Northwestern College in Roseville is the only Minnesota school that has signed
on so far. Three other regional schools - the University of Wisconsin-Superior
and Iowa private schools Luther College and Coe College - also think the
rankings are too dependent on the reputational surveys.

"I like to use the quote that Albert Einstein said, `Not everything that's
measured counts and not everything that counts can be measured,'-" Luther
President Richard Torgerson said. "You've got to experience the place, interact
with the people that are there. What it all comes down to is fit and whether a
place feels right."

Coe President James Phifer was a little more blunt.

"Schools can build themselves up, make major progress and go unnoticed for 15
years. It's just crazy," Phifer said. "Conversely, schools can fall apart and
their reputation will carry them for two decades. It's unethical. ...

"When the stuff going in is you-know-what, the stuff coming out is going to be
you-know-what."

Northwestern College President Alan Cureton declined comment on his school's
position.

The Education Conservancy isn't the only rebel group. Several other Minnesota
private schools - including Carleton, Gustavus Adolphus, Macalester, St.
Benedict's, St. John's and St. Olaf - are part of the Annapolis Group, a
collection of 120-plus liberal arts schools that has also taken issue with U.S.
News & World Report's rankings.

"I have two in college, so I have just been through the college selection
process myself," St. Olaf President David Anderson said. "I understand that
families so badly want to make the right decision, and you are hungry for any
kind of information you can get. The problem is that many of the rankings are
trying to quantify an unquantifiable experience."

This spring officials at Gustavus and St. Olaf also opted against participating
in the peer review of other schools. Both supplied data to the magazine.
Carleton, Macalester, St. John's and St. Ben's participated.

"People tend naturally to like rankings," Macalester College President Brian
Rosenberg said. "It's a simpler way of understanding the world rather than
looking at lists of data about individual schools. ... But I do think they are
reductive and misleading."

An alternative

Because of the dissatisfaction with the rankings, the National Association of
Independent Colleges and Universities is putting together an Internet-based tool
that prospective students can use to compare schools.

The individual colleges are expected to follow a template and provide
information so that high schoolers and their families can make accurate
comparisons. The site is expected to launch after Labor Day.

U.S. News & World Report editor Brian Kelly said the boycott has been negligible
to this point. In addition, the magazine is going to continue to rank schools,
regardless of whether they participate in the process.

"Their point is that they are completely unique and individual institutions that
just can't be reduced to numbers," Kelly said. "We just respectfully disagree
with that. We believe that at some level we can create some good measures that
allow you to compare, in effect, apples to apples."

Others aren't so sure.

"I was just getting tired of getting these ranking sheets that were coming from
U.S. News," said UW-Superior Chancellor Julius Erlenbach. "I'd say, `Why are
they doing this? Why are they giving so much weight to this piece of it?' We
didn't want to be part of the beauty contest anymore."

And that contest has changed how high schoolers make decisions.

"When I was looking at colleges, the main question people were asking was what
college was right for me," Rosenberg said. "Too often now, the question people
ask is which college is most highly ranked, and that has been overall a pretty
destructive thing.

"What parents and students should be asking is what college is the right fit,
and U.S. News tends to blur that question."

Jeff Shelman - 612-673-7478

WHERE SCHOOLS RANK

Here are some top regional schools and their rank in several categories:

Best universities

38 (tie). Wisconsin-Madison; 64 (tie) Iowa

71 (tie) Minnesota; 85 Iowa State

Best liberal arts colleges

5 (tie) Carleton; 26 (tie) Macalester

54 (tie) St. Olaf; 75 (tie) St. John's; 106 (tie) St. Benedict's

The complete list: www.usnews.com

WHERE'S GUSTAVUS?

Ranked 79th last year, Gustavus-Adolphus dropped off the list this year. Why? A
test that's no longer given is not factored in. More at www.startribune.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2007 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 30, 2013 Friday

Florida: North Florida Community College Ranks Second Best in Nation

LENGTH: 338  words

DATELINE: Tallahassee


Department of Education, The State of Florida has issued the following news
release:

Today Washington Monthly ranked North Florida Community College (NFCC) second
among national community colleges in its ninth annual college rankings survey.
Four other Florida College System (FCS) institutions made the list: Chipola
College, Miami Dade College, Valencia College and South Florida State College.

"North Florida Community College is honored to be among the top community
colleges in the nation," said NFCC President John Grosskopf. "Our strong
commitment to educating students from all walks of life is reflected in these
rankings. I could not be more proud of our college and its dedicated faculty and
staff."

"This honor recognizes the Florida College System's commitment to both access
and high-quality education," said FCS Chancellor Randy Hanna. "I commend our
colleges for their ongoing efforts to serve the needs of our state."

Using data from the Community College Survey of Student Engagement and U.S.
Department of Education, Washington Monthly rates community colleges in a number
of areas, including collaborative learning, student effort, academic rigor,
student-faculty interaction and support for learning. Retention, graduation and
completion rates are also factored into the rankings.

According to Washington Monthly's editors, "We designed the Washington Monthly
college rankings to embody the American higher education compact at the
institutional level. Instead of lauding colleges for closing their doors to all
but an elite few, we give high marks to institutions that enroll low-income
students, help them graduate and don't charge them an arm and a leg to attend."

"These rankings are especially important because they highlight the system's
mission of providing access to low-cost, high-quality education and job
training," said Chancellor Hanna. "I am extremely proud of all of our colleges
for helping prepare Floridians for high-skill, high-wage jobs."

For further information please visit: http://www.fldoe.org

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Chronicle of Philanthropy

                              May 25, 2007 Friday

What the Rankings Do for 'U.S. News'

BYLINE: JEFFREY SELINGO

SECTION: SPECIAL REPORT; Pg. 15 Vol. 53 No. 38

LENGTH: 799 words

DATELINE: Washington


The annual "America's Best Colleges" issue of U.S. News & World Report has long
been referred to as the magazine's swimsuit issue. While the comparison is made
in jest, in terms of newsstand sales the association with the popular Sports
Illustrated cover is not far off.

Last year the U.S. News college issue was among 17 perennial "moneymakers,"
according to a list compiled by min: Media Industry Newsletter. Only one other
U.S. News issue ("America's Best Hospitals") made that perennials list, which
also included the likes of the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue, People's
"Sexiest Man Alive," and Forbes's "400 Richest Americans." Neither Time nor
Newsweek had a cover on the perennials list.

"The college issue generates so much publicity" for U.S. News, says Alvin P.
Sanoff, who was managing editor of the magazine's rankings project for almost
seven years in the 1990s. "It helps keep the name of a magazine before people,
that you otherwise wouldn't be hearing a lot about."

Indeed, the college guide and its sibling, "America's Best Graduate Schools,"
are two bright spots for a magazine that operates in the shadows of its larger
rivals, Time and Newsweek, and has endured substantial staff cuts in the last
five years.

U.S. News, which has a circulation of two million and advertising revenue in
2006 of $267.6-million, does not publicly break out income from its
college-rankings business. In addition to the two annual issues, that business
includes separate undergraduate and graduate guidebooks that remain on the
newsstand year-round, paid access to expanded data on its Web site, and reprints
of specific articles and rankings.

But Brian Kelly, U.S. News's editor, calls the idea that the rankings sell more
magazines "an endless myth." Mortimer B. Zuckerman, the real-estate tycoon who
owns U.S. News (as well as New York's Daily News), is even more dismissive of
the suggestion that the rankings are a big business for the magazine.

"We don't think about it in those terms," Mr. Zuckerman said in a
minute-and-a-half phone interview that he abruptly ended. "Does it have a value
today given the general decline in news interest among the public? Yes. It's
this kind of useful news that people want. But I didn't do it for business
reasons."

The Power of Advertising

The college issue, according to Mr. Kelly, sells only 5,000 to 10,000 more
copies than an average issue. In addition, the magazine sells "a few hundred
thousand" copies of the undergraduate guidebook in a typical year. About 50,000
users pay $14.95 for in-depth access to the Web site, and a little more than two
dozen colleges and graduate schools purchase reprints every year, which vary in
price depending on the number ordered and types of paper used.

What's harder to measure is the advertising that U.S. News attracts because of
the college rankings. The issue last August with the rankings had 126 pages,
nearly 50 more than the following week's issue. Several of the advertisers were
colleges, many of which placed ads only in regional editions of the issue,
allowing the magazine to sell a space several times over.

Apparently advertising was the reason that the graduate rankings got their
start. Even though Mr. Sanoff and his boss, the former executive editor of the
rankings, Mel Elfin, had for years suggested a comparable rankings system for
graduate schools, it was not until 1994 that U.S. News published its first such
list. The reason, according to Mr. Sanoff? Chrysler was looking for a way to
sell a car it was about to introduce.

"If an advertiser hadn't come along, who knows whether the grad guide would have
come into being?" Mr. Sanoff says.

These days both the undergraduate and graduate guide have become synonymous with
the U.S. News name. When college presidents come to Washington for a visit, the
U.S. News office has long been a stop on their itinerary. "Oftentimes they were
there to argue against something we did in the methodology," Mr. Sanoff recalls.
"Other times it was to tell us what we were doing right."

Given the buzz that U.S. News generates with the rankings, some observers,
including Mr. Sanoff, have wondered why other publications haven't entered the
business, especially since college officials have plenty of ideas on how to
improve the rankings.

Samir A. Husni, chairman of the journalism department at the University of
Mississippi, and a leading expert on the magazine industry, says that while
magazines "have a love affair with ranking everything and anything,"
publications often do not want to copy ideas from their competitors.

"The competitive edge for magazines is that they try to find a unique editorial
concept," says Mr. Husni. "They don't want readers comparing rankings, and
that's what would happen if there was a competitor to the U.S. News rankings."

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Chronicle of Philanthropy
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 5, 2014 Wednesday

New York: Canisius Gets High Marks in College Rankings

LENGTH: 698  words

DATELINE: Albany


Canisius College, The State of New York has issued the following news release:

Several college rankings are out and Canisius has received high marks.  Canisius
earned the 27th spot in the top tier of U.S. News and World Report's 2015
rankings of America's Best Regional Universities - North for the third
consecutive year.  U.S. News named 135 universities in this category.

The annual rankings are one resource that students and parents use to evaluate
their college choices.  The results are based on a proprietary methodology of
statistics for 16 indicators of academic excellence.  Each indicator is assigned
a weight and expressed as a percentage.  Colleges are then ranked based on their
composite scores.  The categories in which schools are listed are based on the
classifications created by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of
Teaching.

"It is an honor to be consistently ranked among the top regional universities in
the North," said Richard A. Wall, PhD, vice president for academic affairs. "Our
placement is a result of the expertise of our faculty and rich academic programs
that lead Canisius students to successful careers that contribute to the
betterment of society and their professions."

U.S .News also ranked Canisius eighth in the 2015 "Great Schools, Great Prices"
listing among regional universities in the North. This is the third consecutive
year Canisius has been in the top 10 in this category.

U.S. News named only 15 regional universities in the North to its "best value"
list. U.S. News classifies regional universities as those that provide a full
range of undergraduate majors and master's programs, and tends to draw students
most heavily from surrounding states.  The methodology for the annual ranking
looks at three variables:  The ratio of academic quality to price, need-based
aid and the average discount.

U.S. News also ranked Canisius among the top institutes of higher education for
military veterans.  Canisius earned the seventh spot among 49 regional
universities in the North on the Best Colleges for Veterans ranking for 2015.
This is the second year Canisius has ranked in the top 10 on this list.

The rankings recognize colleges and universities that participate in federal
initiatives designed to help veterans and active service members apply, pay for
and complete their degrees.  Canisius instituted an Office of Veterans Services
in March 2011 to meet the needs of a growing veteran student population, which
has more than doubled since 2007. "Canisius is proud to be able to provide our
veterans with excellent graduate and undergraduate options that are flexible,
affordable and meet their educational goals," said Wall.

To be considered for U.S. News & World Report's Best Colleges for Veterans
ranking, schools had to be certified for the GI Bill, participate in the Yellow
Ribbon Program and be members of the Servicemembers Opportunity Colleges (SOC)
Consortium, a group that works to simplify credit transfers for veterans.

In additional rankings, Canisius was named a 2015 "College of Distinction" in
the Colleges of Distinction guidebook for the third consecutive year. The annual
publication recognizes higher education institutions, nationwide, that excel at
four distinctions: An engaged student body, great teaching, a vibrant campus
community, and successful outcomes

The Colleges of Distinction guidebook recognized Canisius for its small class
sizes, exciting academic programs, strong faculty interaction, innovative
learning experiences, and for providing opportunities to students for personal
development.

Forbes named Canisius to its list of 2015 Top Colleges.  This ranking measures
student satisfaction, post graduate success, graduation rates and academic
success.

For more information, contact the Canisius College Office of Public Relations at
(716)888-2790.

Canisius College is one of 28 Jesuit universities in the nation and the premier
private university in Western York.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.coma

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  Bar & Bench

                           June 19, 2013 6:30 AM EST

India Today College Rankings 2013 - NALSAR replaces NLSIU at top; CLC in third
place while NUJS and NLIU complete top 5

LENGTH: 154  words


The India Today rankings of the country's "Best Law Colleges" has ranked NALSAR,
Hyderabad in first place with NLSIU, Bangalore in second position. In third
place is the Campus Law Centre at Delhi University, followed by WBNUJS, Kolkata
and NLIU, Bhopal.

Amongst the twenty-five "top" law colleges of the country as per India today,
eight accept admissions through the recently conducted Common Law Admission
Test. In terms of other changes in the "top" 10 law colleges over the 2012
rankings, (http://barandbench.com/content/india-today-2012-college-rankings
-out-nlsiu-tops-du-secures-2nd-position-and-nalsar-3rd-nujs#.UcGLzhZ-WfQ)
WBNUJS, GNLU, and ILS Pune have had their rankings improve while the rankings of
Symbiosis Law School, NLU Jodhpur (mysteriously referred to as "National Law
Institute University"), and Faculty of Law at Aligarh Muslim University have
been adversely affected.

The complete table is available below:

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


             Copyright 2013 Bar & Bench, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                           Ledger (Lakeland, Florida)

                          September 26, 2000, Tuesday

UF, FSU REBUFF FALL FROM TOP 50; THE SCHOOLS ARE NOW IN THE SECOND TIER IN A
LIST BY THE U.S. NEWS & WORLD REPORT.

BYLINE: ERIC PERA The Ledger

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1621 words


LAKELAND -- In football polls, the University of Florida and Florida State are
always near the top.

Neither school did nearly so well in a closely watched academic ranking,
"America's Best Colleges," compiled by U.S. News & World Report magazine.

UF and FSU were not among the top 50 national universities in the magazine's
Sept. 11 edition. Last year, UF was 49th.

This year, UF and FSU were in the second tier of national universities.

In a Sept. 2 article, The Ledger incorrectly reported FSU was 62nd and UF 94th.
However, unlike the top tier where universities are ranked according to academic
standing, schools in the second, third and fourth tiers are listed in
alphabetical order.

The top 50 includes public and private universities with Princeton University
first and the University of Texas-Austin in a three-way tie for 49th.

UF and FSU did make a separate top 50 list of public universities, ranked 18 and
47, respectively, by U.S. News. Both dropped two spots from the year before.

"I say praise the Lord, we're in the top 50," said Jeff Robison, president of
FSU Foundation. "(But) it doesn't take a ranking system to motivate us to strive
to be the No. 1 institution."

UF officials say they deserve a higher ranking, given the school's membership in
the prestigious Association of American Universities, made up of 62 public and
private research universities in the United States and Canada.

"We tend to compare ourselves to other AAU universities," UF spokesman John
Lester said.

FSU Provost Larry Abele said because Florida spends so little on higher
education compared with states like California, UF and FSU will probably never
score high in the U.S. News' rankings.

Florida spends approximately $ 9,800 per college student, compared to
California's $ 26,000, he said. "This is not to say Florida doesn't have some
good schools," Abele said.

One-fourth of the weight U.S. News devotes to ranking colleges is related to
academic reputation, which has nothing to do with performance, Abele said.

Again, Florida is at a disadvantage, he said, since its public university system
is one of the youngest in the nation. "Reputations take a long time to build and
a long time to die."

Some of Florida's newer public universities are in the bottom tiers of U.S.
News' rankings. The University of South Florida is in the third tier. Florida
Atlantic University, Florida International University and the University of
Central Florida are in the fourth tier.

While no one denies that being a U.S. News top-tier school is good for public
relations, UF officials and boosters say the school is doing just fine.

Ditto at FSU, which has never made U.S. News' top tier.

Lester, the UF spokesman, dismisses the second-tier ranking and points to the
university's academic vigor.

"Our research funding is over $ 330 million," he said.

Out of 20,000 freshman applicants, UF enrolled approximately 6,500 this year,
with a combined 3.9 grade-point average, Lester said.

"We're getting excellent students, our research funding is going up. By many
measures, we're among the top universities in the country. It's too bad that
some publications or some people don't realize the excellence here."

While academia and parents of America's teen-agers eagerly await yearly editions
of U.S. News' college rankings, it's a rapture rooted in psychology, said Robin
Gibson, a Lake Wales attorney and board member of UF Foundation.

"We really love rankings, primarily to know who's No. 1," he said. "We're No. 1
is more than just a phrase. It's an insight into American character."

Gibson, a former chairman of the Florida Board of Regents, faults the disparity
of U.S. News' ranking of UF.

"What in the world happened between one year and the next? They don't change
that much in one year," Gibson said of UF's fall from the top 50.

"What are they using for criteria? The resources for the university are much
more than they've ever been. Faculty are being attracted to the place, salaries
are higher, entering students (have) the highest SATs ever."

The U.S. News' ranking has other critics.

Bruce Gottlieb wrote in the Sept. 7 edition of the online magazine Slate that
U.S. News "fiddles with its rankings to improve newsstand sales," and that the
rankings are flawed.

Those charges are denied in the same article by U.S. News reporters Peter Cary
and Brian Duffy.

The rankings are based on academic reputation, graduation and retention rates,
class size, proportion of professors with the highest degrees in their fields,
student SAT scores, financial resources and alumni gifts.

This information is provided by each university, whose staff members fill out
form surveys sent by the magazine.

Because a high ranking is so important, failure to return the forms can be
hazardous to one's career.

The status attached to the U.S. News' ranking was underscored when a top
administrator at Hobart and William Smith Colleges in Geneva, N.Y., was demoted
because she failed to submit current data requested by the magazine.

Only about 6 percent of surveyed colleges failed to submit the requested data to
the magazine this year, said Robert Morse, director of data research at U.S.
News, in the Thursday edition of The Chronicle of Higher Education.

UF officials, while annoyed by the drop in the rankings, treat the submission of
the U.S. News data seriously. However, as if to counter the conclusions of U.S.
News, UF has devised its own method of ranking universities.

TheCenter at the University of Florida, headed by former UF President John
Lombardi, created its own formula for ranking colleges and universities.

It clusters the nation's top research institutions into groups defined by total
and federal research expenditures, endowment assets, annual giving, faculty
members in the National Academies, doctoral degrees, post-doctoral appointees
and entering freshmen's SAT scores.

Using its own criteria, UF scores among the highest of the nation's public
universities, behind University of California-Berkeley, UCLA, University of
Michigan and University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill.

UF's method for ranking universities is superior to that of U.S. News, Gibson
said, while allowing that some bias might have crept into the scoring. "But look
at the criteria, it appears to be objective."

However, in the forward to its own ranking, UF lends credence to the U.S. News
listing. "The most famous -- and perhaps most controversial -- of the rankings
come from U.S. News & World report, whose annual issue ranking colleges and
universities carries the same suspense for some academics that the final college
football polls have for sports fans," says UF's publication titled The Top
American Research Universities.

It continues: "University administrators, public relations officials, and
fund-raisers wait expectantly for the rankings, and institutional research
officials fill out the forms for U.S. News with great care and attention in
hopes of improving their rank."

Still, a U.S. News ranking has little if any impact on major gifts, said Gibson,
who chairs UF's leadership gifts committee.

"When you're talking to someone who's going to make a substantial investment in
the university, they're looking much deeper than what a news magazine has to
say," Gibson said. "They have a personal interest in spinal cord research or in
the appearance of the campus."

THE TOP 50 PUBLIC NATIONAL UNIVERSITIES

In its Sept. 11 "AmericaAEs Best Colleges" issue, U.S. News and World Report
ranked the nationAEs colleges in a variety of ways. Listed is the magazineAEs
ranking of the top 50 public national universities. A separate ranking combining
public and private universities did not include Florida or Florida State in the
top 50.

RANK/COLLEGE

1. University of California - Berkeley

1. University of Virginia

3. University of California - Los Angeles

3. University of Michigan - Ann Arbor

3. University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill

6. College of William and Mary (Va.)

7. University of California - San Diego

8. Georgia Institute of Technology

8. University of Wisconsin - Madison

10. University of California - Davis

10. University of California - Irvine

10. University of Illinois - Urbana-Champaign

13. Penn State University - University Park

14. University of California - Santa Barbara

14. University of Washington

16. University of Texas - Austin

17. Texas A&M University - College Station

18. University of Florida

18. University of Minnesota - Twin Cities

20. Ohio State University - Columbus

20. Purdue University - West Lafayette (Ind.)

20. University of Georgia

20. University of Iowa

24. Rutgers - New Brunswick (N.J.)

24. University of Maryland - College Park

26. Colorado School of Mines

26. Indiana University - Bloomington

26. Miami University - Oxford (Ohio)

26. University of California - Santa Cruz

26. University of Colorado - Boulder

26. University of Delaware

26. Virginia Tech

33. Michigan State University

33. North Carolina State University - Raleigh

33. SUNY - Binghamton

33. University of California - Riverside

33. University of Missouri - Columbia

38. Clemson University (S.C.)

38. Iowa State University

38. University of Connecticut

38. University of Pittsburgh

42. Auburn University (Ala.)

42. University of Kansas

44. Ohio University

44. University of Arizona

44. University of Tennessee - Knoxville

47. Florida State University

47. University of Massachusetts - Amherst

47. University of New Hampshire

47. University of Vermont

47. Washington State University

SOURCE: U.S. News and World Report


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Ledger: Chart

             Copyright 2000 Lakeland Ledger Publishing Corporation

                              344 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Newberry Observer, South Carolina

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            October 20, 2017 Friday

Newberry College ranks among nation's best in higher ed

BYLINE: The Newberry Observer, S.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 479 words


Oct. 20--NEWBERRY -- Newberry College made a strong showing on the 2018 U.S.
News and World Report Best Colleges rankings released by the national magazine's
annual report on colleges. Newberry appeared on the following lists:

--Best Regional Liberal Arts Colleges in the South (#17)

--Best Value for Regional Colleges in the South (#7)

--Least Student Debt Load at Graduation for Regional Colleges in the South (#3)

For many years, Newberry College has ranked in the Top 50 for Best Colleges in
the South, but the private liberal arts college ascended into the Top 20 last
year where it has retained its place in the 2018 rankings among the region's
upper echelon.

"I am pleased Newberry College continues to be recognized for its efforts to
offer students an affordable, high quality education," said Newberry College
President Dr. Maurice W. Scherrens. "These highly respected rankings are another
proof point of the value of a Newberry College education."

Newberry College senior Benjamin Herring echoed the president's observation.

"Results like these rankings affirm what we already know as students," said
Herring, who is current president of the Newberry College Student Government
Association. "They show that others are taking note and valuing the unique
experiences we're having at Newberry as we explore our passion and purpose in
life."

Newberry College earned the #7 spot as the Best Value for Regional Colleges in
the South, its second consecutive appearance on this list.

"Our Loan Repayment Promise, which pledges to help students who earn less than
$40,000 after graduation to repay their college loans, has proven to be a very
attractive benefit to students and their families," said Joel Vander Horst, Dean
of Enrollment Management.

Newberry made its debut appearance on the rankings for Student Debt at
Graduation, appearing third on the list for Least Debt for Regional Colleges in
the South.

"Newberry College offers a very competitive financial aid package," Vander Horst
said. "We've also been proactive in identifying students who might be at risk
and helping them find solutions before they experience a financial crisis that
could prevent them from returning to school."

"As an institution, we are called to prepare students for successful careers and
meaningful lives," said Hugo A. "Hap" Pearce, chairman of the Newberry College
Board of Trustees. "Our excellent rankings demonstrate our success in helping
students achieve their unique goals."

RECOMMENDED FOR YOU

12:24 pm       |

Mid-Carolina Middle names Teacher/Support Staff of the Month

12:22 pm       |

Scientist partners with SRNL to repurpose nuclear power byproduct

9:12 am       |

Football collecting donations for member of Newberry Family

___ (c)2017 The Newberry Observer (Newberry, S.C.) Visit The Newberry Observer
(Newberry, S.C.) at www.newberryobserver.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20171020-1NO-Newberry-College
-ranks-among-nation-s-best-in-higher-ed-1020-20171020

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1NO


                                 Copyright 2017

                              345 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 16, 2016 Friday

Salem College Moves Up in U.S. News & World Report Rankings

LENGTH: 246  words

DATELINE: New York



 Raleigh: Salem College has issued the following news release:
 In its 2017 listing of the "Best National Liberal Arts Colleges," U.S. News &
World Report has ranked Salem College as the No. 11 women's college in the
nation.





 In the same report of best liberal arts colleges in the U.S., among North
Carolina-ranked schools Salem came in as the No. 2 liberal arts college and the
No. 1 women's college in the state.



 "While we know that colleges rise and fall in rankings depending on the study
and methodology, Salem is consistently ranked one of the best women's colleges
in the country," said Katherine Knapp Watts, vice president for enrollment,
financial aid, and communications at Salem College.



 Overall, Salem was listed as No. 122 in the nation, which was a healthy
fourteen-place jump from last year's rankings.



 In a year of record-breaking enrollment figures, the new rankings highlight why
Salem continues to attract some of the best and brightest young women from
throughout the United States.



 "Following the news that Salem College just announced the largest first-year
enrollment in our 244-year history, we are especially pleased that U.S. News &
World Report rankings put us as the No. 2 liberal arts college in North
Carolina, the No. 1 women's college in North Carolina, and among the top 11
women's colleges in the U.S.," Knapp Watts said.
 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Keene Sentinel (New Hampshire)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          September 14, 2017 Thursday

U.S. News and World Report ranking puts Keene State at 71 out of 145 colleges

BYLINE: The Keene Sentinel, N.H.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 551 words


Sept. 14--Keene State College ranked in 71st place among 145 colleges and
universities in its category in U.S. News & World Report's latest annual Best
Colleges rankings.

Keene State is listed in the "regional universities north" group, for
institutions that offer a "full range" of programs for undergraduate students,
some graduate programs but few doctoral programs. So-called "regional
universities," which also include colleges, are ranked separately in the South,
West and Midwest.

Other categories include national universities, national liberal arts colleges
and undergraduate business and engineering programs.

For the annual rankings, released this week, colleges and universities were
scored based on a range of factors -- weighted according to their determined
importance -- such as graduation rates, first-year retention rates, admissions
selectivity and assessments of undergraduate academic reputation by
administrators at peer institutions, according to U.S. News & World Report.

In its list, Keene State College tied in 71st place with three others: St.
Joseph's College New York in Brooklyn, SUNY Plattsburgh in New York and the
Wentworth Institute of Technology in Boston. The rankings went through 137, with
nine institutions tied for the last slot.

"We are pleased with this ranking," William Seigh, Keene State's provost and
vice president for academic affairs, said in statement emailed via a college
spokeswoman. "It is an indicator of Keene State's continued dedication to our
students and the College's commitment to providing education for work and for
life."

The list is topped by Providence College in Rhode Island. Southern New Hampshire
University in Manchester ranked 86th, tied with Brooklyn College in New York,
Eastern Connecticut State University in Willimantic, Norwich University in
Northfield, Vt., and Stevenson University in Maryland.

Plymouth State University finished in 115th place.

Also in the "regional universities north" category, Keene State ranked 48 of 84
in terms of "best value" and 21 of 51 (ranked 1 through 46) among top public
schools, tied again with SUNY Plattsburgh.

Both Dartmouth College in Hanover and the University of New Hampshire in Durham
also appear in U.S. News & World Report's rankings, on a list of 230 national
universities (ranked 1 through 223) led by Princeton. Dartmouth finished at No.
11, tied with Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore and Northwestern University
in Evanston, Ill. UNH ranked 103, tied with six others: Auburn University in
Alabama; Illinois Institute of Technology in Chicago, Loyola University Chicago,
the University of Oregon in Eugene, the University of South Carolina in Columbia
and the University of Tennessee in Knoxville.

Like Keene State, Franklin Pierce University was included in the "regional
universities north" list. However, the Rindge university was one of 51
institutions in that category that weren't ranked. Specific information about
why Franklin Pierce wasn't scored wasn't available Wednesday, but U.S. News &
World Report indicates it could be for any of a variety of reasons.

The full rankings are available at www.usnews.com/best-colleges.

___ (c)2017 The Keene Sentinel (Keene, N.H.) Visit The Keene Sentinel (Keene,
N.H.) at www.sentinelsource.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170914-KN-U-S-News-and-World-Report-ranking
-puts-Keene-State-at-71-out-of-145-colleges-0914-20170914

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KN


                       Copyright 2017 The Keene Sentinel

                              347 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                             August 18, 2006 Friday

College officials see good in ratings

BYLINE: By Bob Hollidayand M.K.
Guetersloh;bholliday@pantagraph.com;mkguetersloh@pantagraph.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 666 words


NORMAL - Both Twin City universities maintained a strong showing in the U.S.
News and World Report's annual college rankings.

Although its overall ranking remained the same, Illinois State University
improved its average freshman retention rate, graduation rate, number of classes
with fewer than 20 students and its academic reputation.

ISU was listed in the third tier of national universities for the fifth
consecutive year. ISU's third-tier rank means it falls somewhere between 130 and
181 among 248 U.S. universities judged in its category.

Illinois Wesleyan University slipped in its rankings of more than 200 liberal
arts colleges in the nation. Usually in the mid-50s on the magazine's list,
Illinois Wesleyan found itself ranked about 60th, said IWU spokesman Matt Kurz.

"We are always jockeying around the 50-to-60 area with many of the same
colleges," Kurz said. "This time we are down a bit."

Last year, Illinois Wesleyan ranked 55th. It was 53rd two years ago.

Eureka College in Eureka was recognized by the magazine as the best value among
Midwestern colleges for the second year in a row, said Eureka spokeswoman
Michele Lehman.

The magazine's annual ranking of colleges and universities will hit newsstands
Monday.

ISU President Al Bowman said he is most proud of the improvement in the
retention rate, which went from 82 percent to 83 percent.

The graduation rate also rose from 62 percent to 63 percent.

He said the graduation rate is above the national average and is an historic
high for ISU.

"These numbers reflect important outcomes," he said, terming the ranking
flattering.

Bowman said the retention rate "is a very good number for a public university"
and another historic high for ISU. He said it should increase to 85 percent next
year.

"Clearly, the Illinois State success story is penetrating throughout the state
as evidenced by the growing numbers of students who make our university their
first-choice institution," Bowman said.

While proud of the improvements, Bowman said rankings are only one measure of
success.

"Our true excellence is found in the people who make up our faculty, staff,
student body and alumni," he said.

ISU saw the number of classes with fewer than 20 students increase from 29
percent to 32 percent.

The university's overall academic rating on a 5-point scale increased from 2.4
to 2.5.

Though not part of the magazine rankings, Bowman said ISU's retention rate for
students from minority groups is 75 percent, which he termed excellent.

At Illinois Wesleyan, Kurz said the ranks will give university officials
something to think about, but he added they will also keep it in perspective.

"It is interesting to see the rankings and see how we are perceived," Kurz said.
"But it is not something we are going to use to drive the university."

Instead the university will focus on what it believes is a better mark of an
institution, the quality of its graduates, he added.

Eureka College was ranked first in the magazine's Great Schools, Great Prices
category for comprehensive bachelor's degree colleges in the Midwest.

The best value ranking uses a formula that relates academic quality to average
cost after financial aid. Eureka College was ranked first in the category in
2002 and second in 2003.

"To again be named the No. 1 'great school at a great price' confirms to the
Midwest and to the nation what Central Illinois already knows: Eureka College is
all about quality and value," said Brian Sajko, Eureka's dean of admissions and
financial aid.

In another category, Eureka College ranked sixth in Illinois and 42nd in the
Midwest among the best comprehensive bachelor's degree colleges. That category
uses a formula that includes graduation and retention rates, class size and
faculty and financial resources.

Linoln College in Lincoln and Normal was not included in the rankings.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 The Pantagraph

                              348 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                            December 11, 2016 Sunday

Kolhapur: This city focuses on materials science and nanotechnology but
connectivity is an issue

BYLINE: Rahul Sachitanand

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 22178 words


Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours' drive from Mumbai, now
want to be counted in.

On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods.

and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but
Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be
counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some
70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and
Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur
and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in.
On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000
people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu
Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what
she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own
curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education
hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from
Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an
agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the
three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking
engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university, with the
possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have
historically been the education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli,
about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre
campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma
Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of
Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will
be a full university, with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and
teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the education hubs of
Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92 drive from Mumbai,
now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran Islampur, an agricultural
town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is transforming the three-decade-old
Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from a mid-ranking engineering college
into what she hopes will be a full university, with the possibility of setting
its own curriculum and teaching methods. and Nagpur have historically been the
education hubs of Maharashtra, but Kolhapur and Sangli, about seven hours\x92
drive from Mumbai, now want to be counted in. On a 42-acre campus in Uran
Islampur, an agricultural town of some 70,000 people, Sushma Kulkarni is
transforming the three-decade-old Rajarambapu Institute of Technology (RIT) from
a mid-ranking engineering college into what she hopes will be a full university,
with the possibility of setting its own curriculum and teaching methods. Also
Read: India\x92s emerging education hubs: A look at India\x92s best cities to
study in

RIT has gone from a fledgling institution with just three branches of
engineering to an autonomous institute offering an array of diploma, graduate
and postgraduate programmes and has even launched a course in management.

Also Read: A look at India'a top Education hubs and cities ranking based on it

Along the way, Kulkarni, the director of RIT, has pushed teachers and students
to keep pace with a changing education and industry landscape.

An hour north of RIT's campus, Devanand Shinde is also a man with a plan. He
wants Kolhapur to stand out as an education hub and not languish in the
backyard. Shivaji University, of which Shinde is the vice-chancellor, has pushed
hard to make a mark for itself.

Also Read: Indore: IIT and an IIM in the same city is the reason for Indore
becoming a melting pot of students

The university, established in 1962, now has some 300,000 students across 280
affiliated colleges and is building skills in emerging fields such as materials
science and nanotechnology.

"We want to provide skills that make our students employable," says Shinde. "We
want to be nationally recognised as a university of note."

To be in the spotlight, colleges in the region need to be seen at the cutting
edge of education, say academics. In physics, Shivaji University has attracted
nearly Rs 2 crore in funding from DRDO, CSIR, UGC and the Department of Science
and Technology (DST), among others.

"We have over 150 students who have gone abroad (for PhD programmes, for
example)," says VJ Fulari, head of the department of physics. "We want to build
on this success to make Kolhapur a hub for innovation."

Also Read: Existence of established tier-2 educational hubs and how these cities
have stepped up

These ambitions hold true for many institutes in the region. RIT is part of a
World Bank-funded upgrade programme called the Technical Education Quality
Improvement Programme (phase 1 covered undergraduate education and the ongoing
phase 2 covers post-graduation), and new facilities -- such as a new airy
library and a cafeteria -- have been added.

Local Engagement

Across the road from the main Shivaji University campus in Kolhapur, Pramod S
Patil is overseeing what many reckon to be the future of technical education in
the region.

Also Read: Manipal: How a barren hillock in Mangalore has transformed into a
university town

The university's School of Nanosciences and Technology offers a five-year
integrated programme for students looking to work in this emerging field. With
an intake of 60 students a year and backed by grants from scientific bodies such
as the DST, the school is trying to push Kolhapur's academic standing in a new
direction.

"We want to build the capabilities of students in academics and research," says
Patil. "We want them to contend for PhD and post-doctoral programmes in India
and abroad."

Educational institutes in and around Kolhapur and Sangli keep an eye on the
external environment but the focus is in many ways local. RIT, for instance, has
engaged with local sugar planters to devise an effective cane-cutting machine
and with turmeric farmers to improve the spice's production processes.

"Getting autonomy was path-breaking for us in 2011," says Kulkarni. "It gave us
a lot more freedom to experiment with teaching methods and curriculum and think
of new ways to improve the institute's standing."

Also Read: Dehradun: Keeping the traditional schools company in the rash of
new-age institutions

However, institutes such as RIT face an uphill battle. RIT, ranked No. 7 in
Maharashtra and No. 75 nationally in a recent Ranking for Engineering (Research
and Teaching) by the Union ministry of human resources development, had to fight
to keep students, teachers, parents and industry interested in a place off the
beaten path.

"We think institutes in Kolhapur can climb further up the rankings," says
Shinde. For that, they will have to overcome difficulties posed by geographic
location and government lethargy. Kolhapur, a region once renowned for leather
footwear, is a long drive from Mumbai.

The city has a non-functional airport and trains are slow. Poor connectivity
means it is difficult to hire and retain good faculty. Students, especially from
outside the state, are reluctant to study here.

Foreign guest lecturers too are not keen on making the long trek. The physics
department has five teaching and 13 nonteaching posts vacant.

Also Read: Bhubaneswar: Home to a bunch of reputed colleges and research
institutes

Other niggles are worrying too: when this writer visited the nanotechnology
centre on a Monday morning, there was no electricity. Classes were held in dim
light and only a few critical machines were functional.

Yet, Kolhapur is trying. In the town of Ichalkaranji, once called the Manchester
of Maharashtra, the state has seeded a textile incubation unit to aid
entrepreneurship.

In the Kolhapur campus itself, Shivaji University is home to the first lead
botanical garden in the country, with a large collection of rare species of
plants endemic to the Western Ghats.

Also Read: IIT Kharagpur: It soon plans to start MBBS degree course

The long-term goal is to convert the university's 850-acre campus into a
biodiversity hotspot.

Says SR Yadav of the botany department: "We would like to build our expertise in
botany and taxonomy and bring students and experts from around the world to our
garden." Along the way, he and other experts hope that the region's prospects in
education too bloom.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                             August 16, 2009 Sunday

UNMC climbs rankings in research fundings;

BYLINE: Lincoln Journal Star

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 237 words


The University of Nebraska Medical Center has been climbing in the research
funding rankings of the National Institutes of Health, the primary federal
agency for conducting and supporting medical research.

Since September, UNMC has received $46.4 million, or 12.9 percent more from the
NIH than the year before.

All of UNMC's colleges also are well within or near the desired goal of ranking
in the 50th percentile or better, said Thomas Rosenquist, UNMC vice chancellor
for research.

The rankings compare a college with all similar colleges in the United States.
The lower the number, the better the ranking.

UNMC's College of Medicine showed the biggest improvement by moving to 55.5
percent from 62.3 percent. "That's the best rank the College of Medicine has had
in 30 years,"Rosenquist said.

Rankings of other colleges include the College of Pharmacy,24.6 percent; College
of Dentistry, 53.3 percent; College of Nursing,48.8 percent.

UNMC is the only public health science center in the state. It is one of the
country's leading centers in cancer, transplantation biology, bioterrorism
preparedness, neurodegenerative diseases, cardiovascular diseases, genetics,
biomedical technology and ophthalmology.

UNMC's research funding from external sources now exceeds $100 million annually
and has resulted in the creation of more than 3,200 highly skilled jobs in the
state.

For more information, go to UNMC's Web site at www.unmc.edu.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Lincoln Journal Star
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday

A 2016 rankings roundup

LENGTH: 932  words

DATELINE: New York



 Harrisburg: Gettysburg College has issued the following news release:
 These three words serve as the foundation of a Gettysburg education--an
education that asks for engagement and offers challenge and opportunity in
return; an education that creates global citizens and active leaders; an
education that prepares our students for personal and professional success in
every career field imaginable.





 It's no surprise, then, that the great work of our students, faculty, and
alumni should receive accolades and praise of the highest order.



 From building leaders to building futures, best alumni network to best study
abroad program, here is a comprehensive roundup of the top college and
university rankings from the past year.



 In a survey that examined academic reputation, faculty resources, graduation
and retention rates, and alumni giving rates, Gettysburg College has been
included among the 174 institutions in the top tier of the 2017 U.S. News &
World Report "America's Best Colleges." The College also received special
recognition for study abroad experiences.



 In addition to being named to The Princeton Review's Best 381 Colleges Guide,
2017 Edition, the College earned rankings in several of their other
distinctions: Most Popular Study Abroad Program (9), Everyone Plays Intramural
Sports (11), Top Internship Opportunities (11), Best Alumni Network (14), Best
Campus Food (14), and Colleges that Pay You Back (46).



 The College also received accolades as one of the selected schools designated
in The Princeton Review's guide, Colleges that Create Futures: 50 Schools that
Launch Careers by Going Beyond the Classroom.

 Students tour AT&T facilities with an alum.



 Students tour AT&T facilities with an alum.



 Kiplinger's Personal Finance Best College Values guide ranked the College
number 56 out of 100 liberal arts colleges across the country based on criteria
that ranged from selectivity and first-year retention rate to financial aid and
average student indebtedness upon graduation.



 Gettysburg made two of Forbes's college rankings: America's Top Colleges--ROI
(57 among liberal arts schools, 121 nationally) and Best Value Colleges (44
among liberal arts schools, 137 nationally). Factors included student's ratings
of professors, post-graduate success, self-reported salary, tuition costs, and
graduation rates.



 The Wall Street Journal and Times Higher Education partnered to create College
Rankings 2017, "providing students and institutions with access to a
comprehensive list of over 1,000 institutions evaluated on their educational
impact."



 Of the more than 1,000 institutions included in the ranking, the College was
number 44 among liberal arts institutions, and number 124 nationally.



 In a ranking that examines the self-reported early-career and mid-career
salaries of alumni, Payscale ranked the College 24 among 108 liberal arts
institutions across the country.



 In Time's Money Magazine's "Best Colleges for Your Money" 2016 list, the
College was ranked 34 among liberal arts schools, and 114 among all colleges and
universities across the country. The ranking examines factors like
student-faculty ratio, student evaluation of professors, net price of a degree,
and early- and mid-career salaries.



 The Washington Post created its first-ever college ranking--based on rankings
done by other publications and organizations--of 121 colleges and universities
across the country. Gettysburg was ranked 36.



 For the second year in a row, the College was recognized by the Institution of
International Education (IIE) for our students' high level of participation in
semester-long study abroad opportunities. The College was ranked first in the
state, and second in the nation--up from fourth in the nation the previous year.




 Another publication also highlighted our students' focus on study abroad.
College Magazine included the College as number 8 in its Top 10 Colleges for
Studying Abroad along with institutions like Yale University and New York
University.



 Gettysburg College was recognized by the President's Higher Education Community
Service Honor Roll in three of their four categories: 2015 General Category,
2015 Economic Opportunity Category, and 2015 Education Category.



 These recognitions, while rewarding in their own right, bear witness to the
true determination of the value of a Gettysburg education--the success of our
students and alumni. Students graduate with an individualized career plan
tailored to their professional aspirations, and our alums find personal and
professional success every day, in every career field, and on every continent.



 "We are quite pleased to have the College be recognized for all of the great
work that our faculty, students, and alumni do every year," said Vice President
of Enrollment and Educational Services Barbara Fritze. "The real reward, though,
is seeing the accomplishments of the Gettysburg network, from our first-year
students to our alumni, years after their graduation. These real-world successes
remind us of the value of a Gettysburg education more than any award or accolade
could."



 Founded in 1832, Gettysburg College is a highly selective four-year residential
college of liberal arts and sciences with a strong academic tradition. Alumni
include Rhodes Scholars, a Nobel laureate, and other distinguished scholars. The
college enrolls 2,600 undergraduate students and is located on a 200-acre campus
adjacent to the Gettysburg National Military Park in Pennsylvania.
 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

This document could not be formatted for delivery. If your delivery request
included other documents, they completed successfully.

                              352 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                            August 17, 2010 Tuesday
                                 METRO EDITION

Carleton holds onto its high higher ed ranking;
The U.S. News & World Report rankings showed little movement. Macalester moved
up to No. 26.

BYLINE: JENNA ROSS; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 316 words


Carleton College kept one of the top spots in the newest U.S. News & World
Report rankings of colleges and universities.

Some Minnesota schools were up in the controversial rankings and others were
down. But there were no big shifts either way. A look at the numbers out
Tuesday:

Carleton College in Northfield once again nabbed No. 8 among the "Best Liberal
Arts Colleges" in the nation. Macalester College in St. Paul sat at 26th --
three spots higher than last year. St. Olaf College tied for No. 51.

The University of Minnesota's Twin Cities campus tied with four other
universities for 64th among the "Best National Universities." It had ranked a
few spots higher, 61st, in '08 and '09.

Others were named in a list of best regional universities that award master's
degrees.

Hamline University nabbed No. 9 in the Midwest -- same spot as last year. Bethel
University and St. Catherine University tied for 17th, while Augsburg College
and the College of St. Scholastica followed closely at 22nd and 24th,
respectively.

The magazine's list -- based on class size, graduation rates and peer
assessments -- is an influential one, but in recent years, some college
presidents have questioned its methodology.

The report likes to add categories, and this year for the first time, U.S. News
ranked universities and colleges according to a survey of more than 1,700 high
school counselors. Amongst the liberal arts colleges, Macalester (No. 20) beat
out Carleton (No. 28) and St. Olaf (No. 36).

The U made the list, tying 10 other schools -- including the University of
Wisconsin, Madison -- for 47th place.

Find all the magazine's lists at www.usnews.com.

Of course, U.S. News is far from the only player in the rankings game. Forbes
recently released its list of top universities, including a dozen Minnesota
schools. Carleton, Macalester and Gustavus Adolphus College in St. Peter all
made the top 100.

JENNA ROSS

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2010 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        SUNDAY TELEGRAM (Massachusetts)

                           September 16, 2012 Sunday
                                 NORTH EDITION

College Town

BYLINE: Bonnie Russell, Telegram & Gazette Staff

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; College Town; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 1144 words


A new college ranking system has given College of the Holy Cross an overall rank
of fifth in the nation based on survey questions its alumni answered without
being aware that the tally of their responses would be used to rank their alma
mater.

And that makes it objective, according to Monica McGurk, CEO and executive
editor of The Alumni Factor.

"We used a number of different channels to get people to take the survey, but it
was never identified as a college ranking survey," she said.

The Alumni Factor findings are based on surveys and interviews with more than
42,000 alumni from over 450 schools during the past four years. Researchers
measured 15 different factors, including income, net worth, job opportunities,
intellectual development and overall happiness.

Some questions were very specific such as those about net worth, while others
were left up to the respondent to define. "Overall happiness," for example, was
based on a six-point scale with "not at all happy" on one end and "very happy"
on the other, Ms. McGurk said.

While many colleges and universities that typically are high on other rankings
appear in The Alumni Factor's list of America's top colleges, there are many
schools on the list that have rarely achieved the coveted top-10 positions in
established college rankings.

The top 10 listed in 1-10 order include Washington and Lee University, Yale
University, Princeton University, Rice University, College of the Holy Cross,
University of Notre Dame, Middlebury College, United States Naval Academy,
United States Military Academy and Stanford University.

There are also schools, which place uncharacteristically low, such as Harvard
University at 37th and Columbia University at 91st. In comparison, Harvard and
Columbia ranked 1st and 4th respectively in U.S. News & World Report's 2012
annual list.

This list of the top 177 colleges and universities in the United States provides
students and parents with a performance-based method of assessing and selecting
the best college for each student's unique needs. The Alumni Factor equally
weights all of its attributes, providing a more objective look at each college
or university, whereas other college ranking publications are based on such
subjective factors as reputation and peer assessments.

"When developing The Alumni Factor, our researchers learned that students and
parents were desperate for unbiased information to assist them in making the
best decision in identifying the right college or university.

"With the rising cost of tuition and the nation's alarmingly high student loan
debt, students and parents crave quantifiable data that measures the expected
return of investment, and the value of an education at one school versus
another," Ms. McGurk said.

Through its website, The Alumni Factor offers its members the option of creating
personalized rankings based on The Alumni Factor's key attributes. A "Match Me
to U" feature, for example, allows students to weigh attributes critical to
them, generating a personally tailored list of top college "fits."

Ms. McGurk says it's similar to an online dating match service, but this
matchmaking service allows students to customize to their life goals. In
addition to its high overall ranking, Holy Cross also placed second in the
nation in liberal arts and was one of only seven schools to rank in the top 30
of all of The Alumni Factor's 26 attribute lists, including a first-place
ranking in Spiritual Development among liberal arts colleges.

Seeking input from alumni is something that makes sense, said Ann McDermott,
director of admissions at Holy Cross. "It adds one more interesting layer to the
college search process."

Clark University and Worcester Polytechnic Institute were included among the top
177. Clark is ranked 138 overall, and WPI is ranked 118 overall and 55 among
national universities.

William J. McAvoy, vice president of Development and Alumni Relations at WPI,
said the university was pleased to be included on the Alumni Factor ranking,
which also ranked WPI 55th out of 104 national universities in the report.

"WPI students' college experience has served them very well in the job market.
WPI ranked second among universities in employment rate, ninth in immediate job
opportunities, and tenth in preparation for career success," Mr. McAvoy said.

A full list of The Alumni Factor's college rankings can be found at:
www.alumnifactor.com.

New faculty at Anna Maria College

Anna Maria College appointed full-time faculty members in a variety of
disciplines: Patricia Bartzak, assistant professor of nursing; Luke Buffenmyer,
assistant professor of graphic design; Arne Christensen, assistant professor of
biology and health sciences; David Daniels, assistant professor and director of
the Fire Science Programs; Hamid Kusha, Ph.D., associate professor of criminal
justice; Kyle Thomsen, assistant professor of philosophy; Michael Lombardo,
assistant professor of theology; Andrea Wallen, associate professor of nursing;
Theodora Welch, assistant professor of business.

Presidential Awards at Assumption

Assumption College will convey two 2012 Presidential Awards on Sept. 20 during
their convocation ceremony. Joseph Foley, associate professor of business
studies, is the recipient of the Presidential Award for Excellence in Service;
The Rev. Donat Lamothe, A.A., professor of art, is the recipient of the
Presidential Award for Excellence in Contribution to the Mission.

Mount Wachusett welcomes new personnel

Mount Wachusett Community College's Division of Academic Affairs welcomed the
following: Kara Roche, faculty, English department; Aliza Miller, faculty, math
department; Emily Cabrera, faculty, nursing department; Cheryl Ann Wilson, chair
of the Clinical Laboratory Science program; Gary Ackerman, director of the
Center for Teaching and Learning; and Liza Smith, assistant director of
advising.

WSU presidential inauguration

Barry M. Maloney will be sworn in as the 11th Worcester State University
president Friday. The inauguration ceremony will begin at 2 p.m. in the Sullivan
Auditorium. The keynote address will be delivered by Frederick W. Woodward, who
served as Westfield State University's president from 1997 to 2004.

The inauguration will be preceded by a series of faculty lectures and the
Worcester State University Presidential Lecture featuring National Geographic
underwater photographer and author Brian Skerry, WSU class of 1984, who will
talk about his latest book, "Ocean Soul," at 4 p.m. on Thursday in the Helen G.
Shaughnessy Administration Building Fuller Theater.

In addition, Worcester Art Museum Director Matthias Waschek will deliver the
talk, "University and the Museum: A Dynamic partnership," at 2 p.m. on Wednesday
in the Ghosh Science and Technology Center Auditorium.

A full schedule of event details can be found on the inauguration website.
www.worcester.edu/inauguration.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education

                             March 13, 2011  Sunday

Questions Abound as the College-Rankings Race Goes Global

BYLINE: Ellen Hazelkorn

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Opinion & Ideas

LENGTH: 1350  words

ABSTRACT

Now even iPhone applications help calculate colleges' place in the Scheme of
Things, and institutions place far too much weight on cracking the top tier.

FULL TEXT

It is amazing that more than two decades after U.S. News & World Report first
published its special issue on "America's Best Colleges," and almost a decade
since Shanghai Jiao Tong University first published the Academic Ranking of
World Universities, rankings continue to dominate the attention of university
leaders. Indeed, the range of people watching them now includes politicians,
students, parents, businesses, and donors. Simply put, rankings have caught the
imagination of the public and have insinuated their way into public discourse
and almost every level of government. There are even iPhone applications to help
individuals and colleges calculate their ranks.

More than 50 country-specific rankings and 10 global rankings are available
today, including the European Union's new U-Multirank, due this year. What
started as small-scale, nationally focused guides for students and parents has
become a global business that heavily influences higher education and has
repercussions well beyond academe.

Meanwhile, much has been said and written about the methodological problems with
the various rankings. Suffice it to say, there is no such thing as an objective
ranking. Rather, rankings attempt to measure and compare performance and quality
using a range of indicators, weighed according to the values and judgments of
the ranking organizations. By aggregating scores to a single digit, top-ranked
institutions determine the "norm" against which all other institutions are
measured.

Rankings are essentially one-dimensional, since each indicator is considered
independently. But in reality the indicators are interdependent. For example,
older, well-endowed private universities are more likely to have better
faculty-student ratios and per-student expenditures than those of newer, public
institutions.

The battle among ranking organizations for supremacy has not resolved the
underlying questions: Is it possible to measure or compare "whole" institutions
across different missions and national and financial contexts? And is it
possible to measure quality through measurements of quantity?

Beyond the methodological problems, rankings are seen as influencing-in both
positive and perverse ways-the behavior of institutions, students, government
officials, employers, and philanthropists. Most of the evidence has derived from
the United States, where rankings have the longest history, but similar trends
are emerging from around the world. International evidence consistently shows
that college presidents believe rankings play a significant role in establishing
and securing institutional position and reputation. Other colleges use rankings
to help identify potential partners, assess membership of international networks
and organizations, and for measuring themselves. High-achieving students use
rankings to "shortlist" their college choices, especially at the graduate level.
Donors, companies, and policy makers use rankings to influence their decisions
about financing, sponsorship, and employee recruitment.

According to a 2006 survey that I conducted for the Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development and the International Association of Universities,
the overwhelming majority of university presidents have made efforts to improve
their institutions' positions. This includes reshaping ambitions and goals,
often expressed as a desire to be a top-tier institution or within the top 20,
50, or 100 in global rankings. Some universities are restructuring to create
larger, more research-intensive units, or altering the balance between teaching
and research or between undergraduate and graduate activities. Resources are
being redirected toward fields and departments that are more productive (usually
the biosciences) or toward faculty members who are more prolific, especially at
the international level, and thus likeliest to move the indicators upward.
Recruitment strategies are aimed at talented students and faculty from high-
ranking universities, or at capacity-building professors. But faculty members
are not innocent victims. Plenty of evidence suggests that they use rankings to
raise their own professional standing and are unlikely to collaborate with
lower-ranked universities.

Much less, however, is known about the influence of rankings on policy makers.
Simply put, as the provider of human capital and a primary source of new
knowledge and technology transfer, higher education is commonly viewed as a key
engine of the economy. Annualized rankings are quickly converted into a table
that usually aggregates the top 100 universities by nation. Rankings appear to
pronounce on a nation's capacity to participate in world science and the global
economy. Governments use rankings to guide the restructuring of higher education
because societies that are attractive to investment in research and innovation
and highly skilled mobile talent will be more successful globally.

China, Finland, France, Germany, India, Japan, Latvia, Malaysia, Russia,
Singapore, Spain, South Korea, Taiwan, and Vietnam, for example, have introduced
policy initiatives with the primary objective of creating "world-class"
universities, using definitions drawn most notably from the Academic Ranking of
World Universities and previously Times Higher Education-QS World University
Rankings. This involves providing funds to a few universities or encouraging
mergers between smaller universities or between universities and research
institutes. Unease that Europe's universities stood at a crossroads was what
propelled the European Commission to champion the new EU rankings.

Even countries with few national resources are caught up. In January, Macedonia
announced that Shanghai Jiao Tong University had been asked to evaluate public
and private universities there to "see where we stand in regard to the quality."
Macedonia had already introduced a law to automatically recognize degrees from
the world's top 500 ranked universities. Kazakhstan, Mongolia, and Qatar award
scholarships only to students admitted to highly ranked (top 100) universities,
while Dutch and Danish immigration laws favor people with degrees from the
world's top universities.

In the United States, some state university systems' governing boards, like
those in Arizona and Florida, have benchmarked presidential salaries to
improvements in rankings, or have used rankings as a way to evaluate and set
goals for their flagship universities. This year Gov. Sam Brownback of Kansas
linked the revitalization of the state's economy and taxpayer confidence with
the ranking of its universities: "We've got to have institutions in ascendancy
in their rankings." Indiana, Minnesota, and Texas use rankings in assessment
reports as a way of evaluating their universities.

There is little disputing the need for higher education to be transparent and
accountable. By making performance visible, rankings challenge complacency. But
they are also being used to set policy on the basis of questionable data and
imperfect methodologies. Annual comparisons are misguided because institutions
do not and cannot change significantly from year to year. In addition, many of
the indicators or their proxies have only an indirect relationship to
educational quality. As for research, bibliometric and citation practices not
only undermine the value of the arts, humanities, and social sciences, but also
privilege researchers in developed countries and those writing in English, in a
select range of journals.

What happens when the indicators or the weightings change? There is an
assumption that the indicators represent an objective truth, fixed in time, and
that institutional or national strategies can use them to identify targets, say,
five to 10 years hence. But the indicators are determined by commercial or
independent organizations. If the indicators change, does policy change
accordingly? And if so, who is setting higher-education strategy?

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                             April 5, 2016 Tuesday

Three educational institutions from Mysuru among top 100 in country

LENGTH: 360  words

DATELINE: Mysuru


Mysuru, April 5 -- Three higher educational institutions in the city are ranked
among the top 100 in their respective categories by the Ministry of Human
Resource Development (MHRD), Government of India. However, the University of
Mysore which is celebrating its centenary and took pride in its A+ NAAC rating,
does not figure in the top 100 of 233 universities which registered for the
ranking.


 The ranks were released in New Delhi on Monday and JSS College of Pharmacy was
ranked 10th among pharmacy colleges in the country. Further, JSS University was
ranked 35th among the universities and National Institute of Engineering (NIE)
was ranked 96th among the engineering colleges. Interestingly, JSS College of
Pharmacy at Ooty (Tamil Nadu), which is affiliated to the JSS University in
Mysuru, bagged the 9th spot in the country. Though the State is home to over 100
engineering colleges, only six figure in the top 100.
 But what is pertinent to note is that the list is incomplete and institutions
and universities were "invited" to get registered for the ranking. According to
the MHRD website, 1,438 engineering colleges opted for to participate in the
survey, besides 609 management colleges and institutions, 454 pharmacy colleges
and 233 universities. The MHRD approved the frameworks for ranking and adopted
the National Institutional Ranking Framework which ranks institutions across the
country. These rankings are based on various parameters like teaching, learning
and resources, research and professional practices, graduation outcomes,
outreach and inclusivity, and perception.
 The rankings were done under six categories - engineering, management, pharmacy
and universities - besides architecture and colleges. However, the latter two
were excluded from this year's list due to what the MHRD website said was "non
representative participation in the domains of architecture and general colleges
this year." The institutions were usually ranked under Category A (those engaged
in research and teaching) and Category B institutions (mainly those engaged in
teaching). The rankings released this year were only with respect to Category A
institutions.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 8, 2014 Monday

U.S. News & World Report, The Washington Monthly rank Doane among nation's best
colleges

LENGTH: 174  words

DATELINE: Crete


Doane College has issued the following news release:

Doane College was recently ranked among the nation's best liberal arts colleges
by two more publications: U.S. News & World Report and The Washington Monthly.

Out of the 246 schools in its National Liberal Arts Colleges Rankings for 2015,
U.S. News & World Report ranked Doane No. 164 overall and No. 170 in its High
School Counselor Rankings, which was based off of survey responses from public
high school guidance counselors across the country.

The Washington Monthly ranked Doane's undergraduate Crete campus--the
traditional, residential School of Arts and Sciences--No. 71 in its 2014 Liberal
Arts College Rankings. Doane was also ranked 33rd among liberal arts colleges in
the publication's 2014 Best Bang for the Buck Rankings with one of the lowest
student loan default rates.

Doane was the only Nebraska college or university to make any of The Washington
Monthly's rankings.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 16, 2016 Friday

Doing great work: A 2016 rankings roundup

LENGTH: 932  words

DATELINE: New York



 Harrisburg: Gettysburg College has issued the following news release:
 These three words serve as the foundation of a Gettysburg education--an
education that asks for engagement and offers challenge and opportunity in
return; an education that creates global citizens and active leaders; an
education that prepares our students for personal and professional success in
every career field imaginable.





 It's no surprise, then, that the great work of our students, faculty, and
alumni should receive accolades and praise of the highest order.



 From building leaders to building futures, best alumni network to best study
abroad program, here is a comprehensive roundup of the top college and
university rankings from the past year.



 In a survey that examined academic reputation, faculty resources, graduation
and retention rates, and alumni giving rates, Gettysburg College has been
included among the 174 institutions in the top tier of the 2017 U.S. News &
World Report "America's Best Colleges." The College also received special
recognition for study abroad experiences.



 In addition to being named to The Princeton Review's Best 381 Colleges Guide,
2017 Edition, the College earned rankings in several of their other
distinctions: Most Popular Study Abroad Program (9), Everyone Plays Intramural
Sports (11), Top Internship Opportunities (11), Best Alumni Network (14), Best
Campus Food (14), and Colleges that Pay You Back (46).



 The College also received accolades as one of the selected schools designated
in The Princeton Review's guide, Colleges that Create Futures: 50 Schools that
Launch Careers by Going Beyond the Classroom.

 Students tour AT&T facilities with an alum.



 Students tour AT&T facilities with an alum.



 Kiplinger's Personal Finance Best College Values guide ranked the College
number 56 out of 100 liberal arts colleges across the country based on criteria
that ranged from selectivity and first-year retention rate to financial aid and
average student indebtedness upon graduation.



 Gettysburg made two of Forbes's college rankings: America's Top Colleges--ROI
(57 among liberal arts schools, 121 nationally) and Best Value Colleges (44
among liberal arts schools, 137 nationally). Factors included student's ratings
of professors, post-graduate success, self-reported salary, tuition costs, and
graduation rates.



 The Wall Street Journal and Times Higher Education partnered to create College
Rankings 2017, "providing students and institutions with access to a
comprehensive list of over 1,000 institutions evaluated on their educational
impact."



 Of the more than 1,000 institutions included in the ranking, the College was
number 44 among liberal arts institutions, and number 124 nationally.



 In a ranking that examines the self-reported early-career and mid-career
salaries of alumni, Payscale ranked the College 24 among 108 liberal arts
institutions across the country.



 In Time's Money Magazine's "Best Colleges for Your Money" 2016 list, the
College was ranked 34 among liberal arts schools, and 114 among all colleges and
universities across the country. The ranking examines factors like
student-faculty ratio, student evaluation of professors, net price of a degree,
and early- and mid-career salaries.



 The Washington Post created its first-ever college ranking--based on rankings
done by other publications and organizations--of 121 colleges and universities
across the country. Gettysburg was ranked 36.



 For the second year in a row, the College was recognized by the Institution of
International Education (IIE) for our students' high level of participation in
semester-long study abroad opportunities. The College was ranked first in the
state, and second in the nation--up from fourth in the nation the previous year.




 Another publication also highlighted our students' focus on study abroad.
College Magazine included the College as number 8 in its Top 10 Colleges for
Studying Abroad along with institutions like Yale University and New York
University.



 Gettysburg College was recognized by the President's Higher Education Community
Service Honor Roll in three of their four categories: 2015 General Category,
2015 Economic Opportunity Category, and 2015 Education Category.



 These recognitions, while rewarding in their own right, bear witness to the
true determination of the value of a Gettysburg education--the success of our
students and alumni. Students graduate with an individualized career plan
tailored to their professional aspirations, and our alums find personal and
professional success every day, in every career field, and on every continent.



 "We are quite pleased to have the College be recognized for all of the great
work that our faculty, students, and alumni do every year," said Vice President
of Enrollment and Educational Services Barbara Fritze. "The real reward, though,
is seeing the accomplishments of the Gettysburg network, from our first-year
students to our alumni, years after their graduation. These real-world successes
remind us of the value of a Gettysburg education more than any award or accolade
could."



 Founded in 1832, Gettysburg College is a highly selective four-year residential
college of liberal arts and sciences with a strong academic tradition. Alumni
include Rhodes Scholars, a Nobel laureate, and other distinguished scholars. The
college enrolls 2,600 undergraduate students and is located on a 200-acre campus
adjacent to the Gettysburg National Military Park in Pennsylvania.
 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Herald-Times (Bloomington, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 27, 2013 Saturday

BRIEF: IU in top 25 public colleges on Forbes list

BYLINE: Herald-Times, Bloomington, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 228 words


July 27--Indiana University is among the nation's top 25 public colleges and
universities, according to new rankings from Forbes magazine.

A Friday news release from IU announced that IU's Bloomington campus ranks 22nd
among public colleges and universities in Forbes' Top Colleges rankings.
Overall, the university ranked 97th out of 650 schools, joining the top 100 for
the first time since Forbes began its college rankings in 2008, and moving up 47
spots from its 2012 ranking of 144.

Forbes and the Washington, D.C.-based Center for College Affordability and
Productivity produce the Top Colleges list. The rankings consider such factors
as student satisfaction, student debt, four-year graduation rate and
scholarships and fellowships received by students, such as the Rhodes and
Fulbright.

A highly weighted factor is post-graduation success, including salary of alumni
pulled from Payscale.com.

IU Bloomington shares the Top 25 Best Public Colleges recognition with six other
universities from the Big Ten: University of Michigan, Ann Arbor; University of
Illinois, Urbana-Champaign; University of Wisconsin, Madison; University of
Maryland, College Park; Pennsylvania State University; and Purdue University.

___ (c)2013 the Herald-Times (Bloomington, Ind.) Visit the Herald-Times
(Bloomington, Ind.) at www.heraldtimesonline.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130727-BM-BRF-IU-in-top-25-public-colleges
-on-Forbes-list-0727-20130727

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                          Copyright 2013 Herald-Times

                              359 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 19, 2015 Monday

New York: Canisius Gets High Marks in College Rankings

LENGTH: 660  words

DATELINE: Albany


Canisius College, The State of New York has issued the following news release:

Several college rankings are out and Canisius has received high marks.  Canisius
earned the 27th spot in the top tier of U.S. News and World Report's 2015
rankings of America's Best Regional Universities - North for the third
consecutive year.  U.S. News named 135 universities in this category.

          The annual rankings are one resource that students and parents use to
evaluate their college choices.  The results are based on a proprietary
methodology of statistics for 16 indicators of academic excellence.  Each
indicator is assigned a weight and expressed as a percentage.  Colleges are then
ranked based on their composite scores.  The categories in which schools are
listed are based on the classifications created by the Carnegie Foundation for
the Advancement of Teaching.

          "It is an honor to be consistently ranked among the top regional
universities in the North," said Richard A. Wall, PhD, vice president for
academic affairs. "Our placement is a result of the expertise of our faculty and
rich academic programs that lead Canisius students to successful careers that
contribute to the betterment of society and their professions."

          U.S .News also ranked Canisius eighth in the 2015 "Great Schools,
Great Prices" listing among regional universities in the North. This is the
third consecutive year Canisius has been in the top 10 in this category.

          U.S. News named only 15 regional universities in the North to its
"best value" list. U.S. News classifies regional universities as those that
provide a full range of undergraduate majors and master's programs, and tends to
draw students most heavily from surrounding states.  The methodology for the
annual ranking looks at three variables:  The ratio of academic quality to
price, need-based aid and the average discount.

          U.S. News also ranked Canisius among the top institutes of higher
education for military veterans.  Canisius earned the seventh spot among 49
regional universities in the North on the Best Colleges for Veterans ranking for
2015. This is the second year Canisius has ranked in the top 10 on this list.

          The rankings recognize colleges and universities that participate in
federal initiatives designed to help veterans and active service members apply,
pay for and complete their degrees.  Canisius instituted an Office of Veterans
Services in March 2011 to meet the needs of a growing veteran student
population, which has more than doubled since 2007. "Canisius is proud to be
able to provide our veterans with excellent graduate and undergraduate options
that are flexible, affordable and meet their educational goals," said Wall.

          To be considered for U.S. News & World Report's Best Colleges for
Veterans ranking, schools had to be certified for the GI Bill, participate in
the Yellow Ribbon Program and be members of the Servicemembers Opportunity
Colleges (SOC) Consortium, a group that works to simplify credit transfers for
veterans.

          In additional rankings, Canisius was named a 2015 "College of
Distinction" in the Colleges of Distinction guidebook for the third consecutive
year. The annual publication recognizes higher education institutions,
nationwide, that excel at four distinctions: An engaged student body, great
teaching, a vibrant campus community, and successful outcomes

          The Colleges of Distinction guidebook recognized Canisius for its
small class sizes, exciting academic programs, strong faculty interaction,
innovative learning experiences, and for providing opportunities to students for
personal development.

          Forbes named Canisius to its list of 2015 Top Colleges.  This ranking
measures student satisfaction, post graduate success, graduation rates and
academic success.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.coma

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday

Academy gets nod for liberal arts, engineering

BYLINE: SHANTEE WOODARDS Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 698  words


The Naval Academy's engineering program and its liberal arts education once
again earned high marks from the annual U.S. News & World Report college
rankings released yesterday.

The magazine ranked the Annapolis service academy as 16th among the nation's
best liberal arts colleges, tying it with the U.S. Military Academy.

Williams College in Massachusetts maintained its rank as the nation's top
liberal arts school, while St. Mary's College of Maryland was ranked 88th among
liberal arts colleges, up from the 92nd spot last year.

The Naval Academy also ranked fifth among the nation's best undergraduate
engineering programs, fifth for best aerospace/aeronautical/astronautical
engineering program, and fifth for best electrical/electronic/communications
program. The listings will be published in the magazine's September issue.

Last year's report ranked the Naval Academy fourth in aerospace, aeronautical
and astronautical engineering, as well as ranking it the 19th-best liberal arts
college in the country. Academy officials said it was a privilege to earn such
high recognition.

"This is reflective of the great opportunity that the Naval Academy affords our
nation's most talented and well-rounded young Americans," Bruce Latta, the dean
of admissions, said in a statement.

The most closely watched of a growing number of college rankings, the U.S. News
& World Report list is both credited for helping students and families sort
through a dizzying college selection process and criticized by those who say
it's arbitrary and pressures colleges to boost scores at the expense of
improving teaching.

A change in how rankings are determined led to some shifts in the magazine's
"Best Colleges" rankings, which were released online yesterday. The rankings
examine more than 1,400 accredited four-year schools based on 16 factors.

The rankings take into account factors such as SAT scores, selectivity,
graduation and retention rates, alumni giving and peer reputation. This year,
high school guidance counselors' opinions were added to the mix.

U.S. News placed both the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, and the
University of Maryland, College Park, on the up-and-coming list for "making the
most promising and innovative changes," with UMBC ranked in first place and
College Park coming in 20th.

Loyola University Maryland came in third on the list of regional universities
from the North, while also coming in fifth on the up-and-coming list for schools
in that category.

The College of Notre Dame of Maryland was ranked 29th on the regional list,
while Towson University was ranked 46th.

Overall, Harvard pulled ahead of Ivy League rival Princeton as the nation's top
university, while a stronger emphasis on graduation rates drove other changes in
the Top 10.

The country's oldest university and traditionally one of its most selective,
Harvard has topped the list in two of the past three years. Last year, the two
elite schools shared the top ranking.

Yale was the No. 3-ranked university this year, followed by Columbia, and
Stanford and Penn tied at No. 5. Johns Hopkins University was ranked 13th on the
list of national universities.

The University of California, Berkeley is the highest-ranked public university,
at No. 22 overall in the U.S. News report. Despite a severe budget crisis, five
schools in the UC system were among the top 10 public universities.

More schools were ranked this year, a reflection of both increased consumer
demand and improved data collection, said Robert Morse, director of data
research for U.S. News & World Report.

The survey now displays the rank of the top 75 percent of schools in each
category, up from 50 percent. The schools in the bottom tier are displayed
alphabetically and not given numeric rankings.

Earlier this month, Forbes magazine ranked Williams College No. 1 in its third
"America's Best Colleges" rankings.

The Naval Academy came in 29th on that list, with St. John's College in
Annapolis at 155th and University of Maryland, College Park, at 249th.

The business magazine weighs student satisfaction, graduation rates, student
debt and other factors.

---

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

swoodards@capitalgazette.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2010 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Herald-Times (Bloomington, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 26, 2013 Friday

BRIEF: IU in top 25 public colleges on Forbes list

BYLINE: Herald-Times, Bloomington, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 227 words


July 26--Indiana University Bloomington is among the nation's top 25 best public
colleges and universities, according to new rankings from Forbes.

According to a news release from IU today, IU Bloomington ranks 22nd among
public colleges and universities in Forbes' Top Colleges rankings. Overall, the
university ranked 97th out of 650 schools, joining the top 100 for the first
time since Forbes began its college rankings in 2008 and moving up 47 spots from
its 2012 ranking of 144.

Forbes and the Washington, D.C.-based Center for College Affordability and
Productivity produce the Top Colleges list. The rankings consider such factors
as student satisfaction, student debt, four-year graduation rate and
scholarships and fellowships received by students, such as the Rhodes and
Fulbright.

A highly weighted factor is post-graduate success, including salary of alumni
pulled from Payscale.com.

IU Bloomington shares the Top 25 Best Public Colleges recognition with six other
universities from the Big Ten: University of Michigan, Ann Arbor; University of
Illinois, Urbana-Champaign; University of Wisconsin, Madison; University of
Maryland, College Park; Pennsylvania State University; and Purdue University.

___ (c)2013 the Herald-Times (Bloomington, Ind.) Visit the Herald-Times
(Bloomington, Ind.) at www.heraldtimesonline.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130726-BM-BRF-IU-in-top-25-public-colleges
-on-Forbes-list-0726-20130726

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                          Copyright 2013 Herald-Times

                              362 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 17, 2016 Saturday

Marietta holds steady within U.S. News' annual rankings

LENGTH: 272  words

DATELINE: New York



 Columbus: Marietta College has issued the following news release:
 This week, the 2017 rankings of more than 1,800 colleges and universities in
the nation were released. This year, Marietta College was rated as the eighth
top college in the Midwest -- making it the 32nd year Marietta has made the Top
10 list. Overall, there were 94 colleges included in the Midwest rankings.





 The rankings help prospective students and their families obtain a glimpse of
the relative quality of each college and university. That quality is based on 15
indicators of academic excellence, according to U.S. News & World Report's
ranking explanation. Those indicators include first-year student retention
numbers, graduation rates and quality of faculty, among other metrics. Each of
those factors is weighted, and then the college is ranked against peer
institutions based on the composite weighted score.



 Three areas Marietta excels in are Percent of Classes under 20 students (79.5
percent), Average Alumni Giving Rate (18 percent) and Peer Assessment (3.3 out
of 5). The College's freshmen retention rate is 73 percent.



 The top institutions in the Midwest include Calvin College (Grand Rapids,
Michigan), Taylor University (Upland, Indiana), Augustana University (Sioux
Fall, South Dakota), College of the Ozarks (Point Lookout, Missouri), Goshen
College (Goshen, Indiana), Northwestern College (Orange City, Iowa), Ohio
Northern University (Ada, Ohio) and, sharing the eighth spot with Marietta,
Dordt College (Sioux Center, Iowa).
 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                       July 14, 2015 Tuesday 9:20 AM  EST

'MONEY' RANKS VIRGINIA MILITARY INSTITUTE 3RD IN VIRGINIA

LENGTH: 519 words


LEXINGTON, Va., July 14 -- Virginia Military Institute issued the following news
release:

Virginia Military Institute is ranked second among public schools in Virginia,
and third among all schools in Virginia, in Money magazine's annual college
rankings, released earlier this week. Overall, VMI ranked 16th among public
colleges and universities nationwide.

The magazine's rankings of more than 700 colleges and universities across the
country focus heavily on return on investment - the amount of money a student is
likely to earn with a degree from a particular college or university, minus the
total net cost of attending that school. A school's graduation rate, calculated
as the percentage of first-year students who earn a degree within six years, is
also a critical part of the rankings.

For VMI, Money magazine calculated the net price of a degree at just under
$94,000. Net price rankings were determined by taking the average amount
students and parents pay each year, minus scholarships and grants that do not
have to be paid back, and multiplying that figure by the average amount of time
it takes a student at a particular school to earn a degree. Tuition increases
are also considered when calculating the net price of a degree.

Money magazine reported that VMI's young alumni - those who have graduated
within the last five years - earn an average salary of just over $53,000. This
figure is drawn partially from salary data self-reported to Payscale.com, an
independent website that allows individuals to report their earnings and compare
their data with those of others with similar experience and skills. Recent
findings on market value by the Brookings Institution are also taken into
consideration in this year's ranking.

In its report on the rankings, the Washington Post states that Money magazine's
rankings supply much-needed hard data that is not considered in rankings by
other publications. That additional information, according to the Post, should
help students and parents make an informed decision when choosing a college.

The Post notes, "Money magazine tries to answer the questions that prospective
students should be asking on their college tours this summer: What is the
graduation rate, net price (what's the real tuition they'll pay), how much do
they and their parents have to borrow in loans, and will they learn any
marketable skills that will help them get a job in order to pay back those
loans?"

In this year's Money magazine rankings, only the University of Virginia ranked
higher among public schools in Virginia. Among all colleges and universities in
Virginia, only U.Va. and Washington and Lee University were ranked higher than
VMI. Overall, VMI was ranked in 48th place nationwide, well ahead of schools
such as James Madison University, The Citadel, and the College of William &
Mary. The service academies were not included in Money magazine's rankings.

The full list of rankings can be found at http://time.com/money/best-colleges/.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 27, 2014 Monday

Minnesota State Mankato Moves Up in 'Best Colleges' Rankings

LENGTH: 450  words

DATELINE: Mankato


Minnesota State University has issued the following news release:

Both Gustavus Adolphus College and Minnesota State University, Mankato moved up
in the 2015 U.S. News and World Report's Best College rankings, released online
early Tuesday.

Gustavus Adolphus College of St. Peter is ranked No. 64 among Best National
Liberal Arts Colleges. This is the highest Gustavus has appeared on the list in
recent history and represents a jump of 12 spots -- in the 2014 rankings, the
college was ranked No. 76.

The ranking is the highest the college has gotten in almost a decade.

"It's affirmation of our approach to education, the quality of our education and
really an affirmation of liberal arts education in the way that Gustavus does
it," Gustavus President Rebecca M. Bergman said.

Minnesota State Mankato ranked 69th among four-year institutions in the 12-state
Midwest region, tying with colleges such as University of Wisconsin, Oshkosh and
University of Wisconsin, River Falls. Last year it ranked 75th.

Dan Benson, director of media relations at Minnesota State Mankato, said the
university is pleased with the results and that the rankings are commonly used
by students and parents looking at colleges.

U.S. News & World Report has been publishing college rankings since 1985 and is
widely considered to be the most respected resource for parents and prospective
students when it comes to such rankings.

Its methodology is based on several key measures of quality including graduation
and retention rates, assessment of excellence, faculty resources, student
selectivity, financial resources, graduation rate performance and alumni giving.

Minnesota State Mankato improved in several of those areas this year, Benson
said. Not only did its first-year student's one-year retention rate increase
from 70 percent to 74 percent, class sizes decreased.

The percentage of classes with fewer than 20 students went from 31.6 percent to
35.3 percent, while the percentage of classes with more than 50 students went
from 8.1 percent to 7.9 percent.

"More of our classes are smaller, less of our classes are larger," Benson said.

But the rankings are just one way for recent high school graduates to get an
idea of what Minnesota State Mankato is like, Benson said. Though they can be an
important part of a prospective student's decision-making process, soon-to-be
freshmen are encouraged to consider multiple factors when picking a college.

"We also encourage prospective students to make individual contact with the
schools they're interested in and hopefully make personal visits to campus,"
Benson said.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday

UCLA tops USC in college rankings, with Caltech in the top 10

LENGTH: 636  words

DATELINE: Long Beach


California State University has issued the following news release:

UCLA edged out USC in U.S. News & World Report's annual list of university
rankings, and another local campus, Caltech, once again cracked the top 10 in
the widely anticipated survey.

In the list released Tuesday, UCLA placed 23rd, tied with the University of
Virginia. Crosstown rival USC tied for 25th place with Carnegie Mellon
University. Last year, the Los Angeles schools shared 23rd place with Virginia,
Mellon and Wake Forest.The top 10 campuses largely mirrored last year's list,
with Princeton first, followed by Harvard; Yale; Columbia, Stanford and the
University of Chicago tied for fourth; the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
at No. 7; Duke and the University of Pennsylvania tied for eighth; and Caltech
at No. 10.

UC Berkeley repeated its ranking as the top public university, placing 20th
overall.

Among other factors, the magazine measured graduation and retention rates,
assessments by peers, faculty resources and admission test scores at nearly
1,800 colleges and universities.

For the first time this year, information on campus crimes and federal loan
default rates are included on each school's profile page. The same information
on campus security and loan defaults is publicly available from the U.S.
Department of Education.

The goal is to help parents and students make better college choices, although
the data was not used to rank institutions, according to the magazine.The
handling of sexual assaults on campuses has raised scrutiny from students and
lawmakers, but the crime data especially should be viewed with caution, said
Robert Morse, who heads the magazine's rankings, and Diane Tolis, director of
data projects.

"Many experts believe that campus crime is significantly underreported by many
colleges," they said in a release accompanying the rankings. "In addition,
comparing crime stats is problematic because there are too many variables, such
as campus size, location (big city versus small town), number of students and
campus security measures including number of police among others, for such
comparisons to be fair or accurate."

The college rankings themselves have been criticized for focusing too little on
outcomes and spurring some universities to manipulate data in a bid to improve
their position.

A 2013 survey of the nation's college freshmen by UCLA's Higher Education
Research Institute found that while 64% said academic reputation was very
important when choosing a college, only 17.6% thought rankings in national
magazines were "very important" to their decision.

Nevertheless, "Best Colleges" lists continue to proliferate with such
publications as Forbes, the Princeton Review and Washington Monthly publishing
annual lists.

In fact, on the eve of the latest U.S News release, the New York Times announced
a new index, ranking selective colleges on enrollment and support of low-income
students.

Vassar, Grinnell and the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill emerged in the
top three spots.

The U.S. News rankings also include the top schools for economic diversity, with
UCLA, UC Berkeley and Columbia topping that list.

Despite criticism, such lists serve a purpose for families making expensive
college decisions who lack better information, such as graduation rates for
different types of institutions and students, and whose graduates are getting
jobs and paying back debt, said Matthew Chingos, senior fellow for the Brookings
Institution's Brown Center on Education Policy.

"You can shut down the U.S. News rankings tomorrow," Chingos said, "and someone
else will step right up to take that role because the demand is there. Whether
it should be is another question."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 9, 2015 Wednesday

Virginia: Virginia Tech among the nation's best universities in U.S. News
rankings

LENGTH: 844 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Richmond: Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University has issued the
following news release:



  Virginia Tech is among the nation's best universities, according to U.S. News
& World Report's &ldquo;America's Best Colleges 2016.&rdquo;





 Overall, Virginia Tech ranks No. 26 among public institutions and No. 70 among
all national universities, tying with Texas A&M University. Both rankings are up
one spot from last year.



 &ldquo;Our top rankings amongst public institutions are especially notable
since this is the group with which we share a similar mission and metrics of
success,&rdquo; said Thanassis Rikakis, executive vice president and provost.
&ldquo;Virginia Tech is nationally recognized for providing access for students
to receive a solid education that prepares to directly impact the human
condition.&rdquo;



 U.S. News builds the lists based on academic excellence, graduation and
retention rates, faculty resources, student selectivity, financial resources,
graduation rate performance, and alumni giving. It is the 31st year of the
annual ranking.



 Beyond overall rankings, the new U.S. News guidebook contains more focused
rankings, for programs and specific audiences.



 Virginia Tech's College of Engineering ranks No. 8 among public institutions
and No. 15 among all national institutions, the same spots the college earned in
last year's guidebook. The rankings tie with Texas A&M University.



 U.S. News ranks the top five schools for individual engineering programs. The
Department of Biomedical Engineering and Mechanics, formed in 2014 from a merger
of the Department of Engineering Science and Mechanics with the college's
biomedical engineering program, earns a No. 4 ranking among engineering science
programs. The Grado Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering earns a No.
5 ranking, tying with Northwestern University and Stanford University.



 &ldquo;These rankings again show the Virginia Tech College of Engineering's
reputation as a top choice for aspiring engineers, not just for students from
the United States, but the world over,&rdquo; said Richard C. Benson, dean of
the College of Engineering. &ldquo;Our undergraduate students have access to one
of the best hands-on, minds-on educations available anywhere, with abundant
opportunities to work in the Joseph F. Ware Jr. Advanced Engineering Laboratory
or the newly opened Advanced Product Prototyping Laboratory in Engineering
Design, to educational opportunities abroad, such as the International Research
Experience for Students program, a partnership we hold with the University of
Nottingham in England.&rdquo;



 Virginia Tech's Pamplin College of Business earns accolades, ranking No. 27
among public universities and No. 43 among national institutions.



 To build the engineering and business program rankings, U.S. News uses a peer
assessment, surveying deans and senior faculty at accredited programs.



 New this year, Virginia Tech makes the lists for &ldquo;Best Colleges for
Veterans&rdquo; and a &ldquo;High School Counselors' Top Picks.&rdquo;



 In recognition of military-friendly certifications, policies, and programs, the
university ranks No. 20 among public institutions and No. 58 among all
institutions for military veterans and active-duty service members. U.S. News
ranks schools that are certified for the GI Bill and participate in the Yellow
Ribbon Program or a public school that charges in-state tuition to all
out-of-state veterans.



 Virginia Tech has consistently been rated a military-friendly school by Victory
Media. In 2010, student veterans formed the university's first student veterans
organization, Veterans@VT. To better serve veterans and their dependents, the
university created the Office of Veterans Services, which operates in
collaboration with the University Registrar and Student Success Center to
process educational benefits and connect students to resources on campus. A
group of Virginia Tech employees have formed the university's first Veterans
Caucus, with a goal of advocating for both employee and student veterans.



 U.S. News surveyed high school counselors from more than 2,200 schools in 49
states and the District of Columbia. Among national universities, Virginia Tech
came in at No. 12 among public institutions and No. 46 among all national
universities.



 Dedicated to its motto, Ut Prosim (That I May Serve), Virginia Tech takes a
hands-on, engaging approach to education, preparing scholars to be leaders in
their fields and communities. As the commonwealth's most comprehensive
university and its leading research institution, Virginia Tech offers 240
undergraduate and graduate degree programs to more than 31,000 students and
manages a research portfolio of $513 million. The university fulfills its
land-grant mission of transforming knowledge to practice through technological
leadership and by fueling economic growth and job creation locally, regionally,
and across Virginia.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.co

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 20, 2015 Tuesday

New York: Canisius Gets High Marks in College Rankings

LENGTH: 660  words

DATELINE: Albany


Canisius College, The State of New York has issued the following news release:

Several college rankings are out and Canisius has received high marks.  Canisius
earned the 27th spot in the top tier of U.S. News and World Report's 2015
rankings of America's Best Regional Universities - North for the third
consecutive year.  U.S. News named 135 universities in this category.

          The annual rankings are one resource that students and parents use to
evaluate their college choices.  The results are based on a proprietary
methodology of statistics for 16 indicators of academic excellence.  Each
indicator is assigned a weight and expressed as a percentage.  Colleges are then
ranked based on their composite scores.  The categories in which schools are
listed are based on the classifications created by the Carnegie Foundation for
the Advancement of Teaching.

          "It is an honor to be consistently ranked among the top regional
universities in the North," said Richard A. Wall, PhD, vice president for
academic affairs. "Our placement is a result of the expertise of our faculty and
rich academic programs that lead Canisius students to successful careers that
contribute to the betterment of society and their professions."

          U.S .News also ranked Canisius eighth in the 2015 "Great Schools,
Great Prices" listing among regional universities in the North. This is the
third consecutive year Canisius has been in the top 10 in this category.

          U.S. News named only 15 regional universities in the North to its
"best value" list. U.S. News classifies regional universities as those that
provide a full range of undergraduate majors and master's programs, and tends to
draw students most heavily from surrounding states.  The methodology for the
annual ranking looks at three variables:  The ratio of academic quality to
price, need-based aid and the average discount.

          U.S. News also ranked Canisius among the top institutes of higher
education for military veterans.  Canisius earned the seventh spot among 49
regional universities in the North on the Best Colleges for Veterans ranking for
2015. This is the second year Canisius has ranked in the top 10 on this list.

          The rankings recognize colleges and universities that participate in
federal initiatives designed to help veterans and active service members apply,
pay for and complete their degrees.  Canisius instituted an Office of Veterans
Services in March 2011 to meet the needs of a growing veteran student
population, which has more than doubled since 2007. "Canisius is proud to be
able to provide our veterans with excellent graduate and undergraduate options
that are flexible, affordable and meet their educational goals," said Wall.

          To be considered for U.S. News & World Report's Best Colleges for
Veterans ranking, schools had to be certified for the GI Bill, participate in
the Yellow Ribbon Program and be members of the Servicemembers Opportunity
Colleges (SOC) Consortium, a group that works to simplify credit transfers for
veterans.

          In additional rankings, Canisius was named a 2015 "College of
Distinction" in the Colleges of Distinction guidebook for the third consecutive
year. The annual publication recognizes higher education institutions,
nationwide, that excel at four distinctions: An engaged student body, great
teaching, a vibrant campus community, and successful outcomes

          The Colleges of Distinction guidebook recognized Canisius for its
small class sizes, exciting academic programs, strong faculty interaction,
innovative learning experiences, and for providing opportunities to students for
personal development.

          Forbes named Canisius to its list of 2015 Top Colleges.  This ranking
measures student satisfaction, post graduate success, graduation rates and
academic success.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.coma

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Indian Banking News

                        July 15, 2013 Monday 6:30 AM EST

OEDb.org Releases Additional Categories for 2013 Online College Rankings

LENGTH: 419  words


New Delhi, July 15 -- OEDb.org has published new rankings for the top online
nursing, MBA, and Ph.D. programs as an addition to the 2013 Online College
Rankings, which were first released in January. The Open Education Database
(OEDb) recognizes the top U.S. colleges that offer online degree programs in
some of today's most common fields of study, including psychology, business
administration, marketing, education, paralegal studies, and criminal justice.



OEDb was one of the earliest publishers to rank online colleges, with the first
release in 2007. We believe our annual Online College Rankings to be the most
useful and comprehensive published rankings of online schools today.

OEDb has calculated these new rankings to reflect the tremendous growth in
online education and provide more guidance for students in their intended area
of study. The top winners of 2013 in the three additional categories include:

Nursing:

1. University of Delaware

2. The University of Alabama

3. Saint Louis University-Main Campus

4. University of Massachusetts Amherst

5. University of Missouri-Columbia

MBA:

1. University of Florida

2. Misericordia University

3. Ball State University

4. Dallas Baptist University

5. University of La Verne

Ph.D.:

1. University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

2. University of Minnesota-Twin Cities

3. University of Florida

4. University of Nebraska-Lincoln

5. Texas A & M University

Calculating the Rankings

OEDb used only reliable and quantifiable data from trusted third parties and the
schools' websites to keep the rankings as verifiable and objective as possible.

OEDb's researchers initially compiled a list of schools in the U.S. offering
online learning as of November 2012, according to the National Center for
Education Statistics' College Navigator database. We defined online schools as
those that offer at least one degree program that can be earned completely
online; are accredited by an agency recognized by the U.S. Department of
Education; and are listed on College Navigator. We used that initial list,
containing more than 3,000 schools, to identify which schools offered at least
one completely online program in the subject areas we selected to rank.

From there, we compiled our final rankings based on the key metrics as described
in our methodology. These metrics include: cost; selectivity in admissions;
history of reputable accreditation; student loan default, institutional
financial aid, graduation, retention, and job placement rate; and ratio of
full-time to part-time faculty members.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 24, 2016 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Combination of college rankings offers surprises about some area universities

BYLINE: Nick Anderson

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 651 words


Higher-education leaders often call college rankings misleading. The rankers,
they say, insert questionable data on schools into a subjective formula and
produce numbered listings of "top colleges" that have only a veneer of validity
and objectivity.

And yet people read, and often heed, the rankings anyway, giving them a
surprising measure of influence and authority. In theory, the rankings deal with
questions people want answered.

Students value strong academics, research prowess and selectivity in admissions.
They want a quality education at a good price that will help them earn a good
salary when they leave school - and not get stuck in debt. They admire schools
that work for the public good and serve as an engine of social mobility for the
disadvantaged to reach the middle class.

So why not take several rankings that seek to capture all of those qualities and
combine them into one?

The concept is debatable for a host of reasons. Crunching ordinal numbers
derived from other numbers is a tricky proposition and statistically dubious.
But with a plethora of rankings emerging in recent years, each with its own
formula, there is an opportunity to average the rankings and come up with a
composite that takes them all into account.

Here's the experiment:

Start with the list from U.S. News & World Report. That ranking, based in part
on selectivity, wealth and reputational surveys, for decades has been the most
prominent in the market.

Then add:

lNational university rankings from Washington Monthly, which aim to gauge
schools' contributions to the public good.

lRankings from the Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education, which include a
focus on outcomes such as graduation rates, salaries and student engagement.

lRankings from Times Higher Education world university analysts, only of schools
within the United States, which focus on research prowess.

lRankings from Money and Forbes magazines, which in different ways seek to
measure value and outcomes. Both include data on salaries of graduates.

Take the sum and divide by six (the number of rankings in play). Order the
results from low to high. Assign them each a new rank, and you get a new Top 25
list.

In general, the usual suspects do well in all the rankings. Those known as Top
10 schools are basically Top 10 across the board, with some rearranging:
Stanford, Harvard, MIT and the like.

But in the middle of the combined rankings are some surprises: schools that fare
better in the average than they do solely through U.S. News. An example is the
University of Maryland at College Park.

With 38,000 students, U-Md. is known as a research powerhouse. U.S. News ranks
it 60th among national universities, public and private, a position that it has
held, with slight variations up and down, for several years. That is certainly a
prominent rank. The Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education list places U-Md.
at 100th.

But in the combined list, boosted by high marks from Money and Times Higher
Education global, College Park ranks 37th, ahead of Wake Forest University,
Carnegie Mellon University, Boston College, New York University and several
other schools that U.S. News esteems.

"Rankings matter, period," U-Md. President Wallace D. Loh said. "That said, are
they valid? They're valid in a very general sense. When you take a large,
complex organization and reduce it to one number, it simply doesn't capture it
all."

Loh said the university strives for quality and affordability, and can show
results on both fronts. Tuition and fees at College Park total about $10,200 for
Maryland students, not counting room and board. That compares favorably with
private schools and many public institutions.

"Once you take affordability into account, we zoom in the rankings," Loh said.

nick.anderson@washpost.com

To see the full rankings, including separate lists for national universities and
liberal arts colleges, go to bit.ly/mashuprankings.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 4, 2014 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

When the 'Best' School Is Not the Best Choice

BYLINE: By NEIL IRWIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; BEHIND IVY WALLS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1361 words


Take a look at any of the most widely followed ratings of America's colleges and
universities, and almost all of the top-ranked schools will have this in common:
They want to appeal to everyone, or at least everyone with a brilliant mind and
a work ethic to match.

Their course offerings are balanced among math and science, the humanities and
social sciences. They seek the highest-performing students of all sorts: Men and
women, of any religion and geographical background, with any career ambition
imaginable.

Every student, of course, tries to find the school that best fits his or her
personality and ambitions. But ultimately, most Swarthmore students would do
just fine at the University of Chicago, and most young people studying away at
Cornell would do well at Rice, too, at least once they got used to the Texas
accents.

But when you analyze colleges and universities based on where applicants are
most likely to choose to attend when admitted to multiple schools, some of the
institutions that perform the best are very much not for everyone.

Parchment, a company that processes transcripts for high school students
applying to college, analyzed data from the approximately 28,000 applicants who
used the service to apply for college this past academic year. Using the choices
that these students made when they were admitted to more than one institution --
what economists call ''revealed preference'' -- it created a ranking system of
where American high schoolers choose when they have a choice.

Many of the top performers in these rankings are familiar names like Stanford
(No. 1) and Harvard (No. 3). But those that are less well known reveal something
important about how American students choose where to study.

The highest-ranked national liberal arts college in these rankings was the U.S.
Air Force Academy, which ranked only No. 25 in the much-followed U.S. News
rankings. Berea College, a Kentucky school focused on educating young people of
Appalachia who come from poverty, outranks more vaunted, and more selective,
institutions like Carnegie Mellon and Wesleyan.

Other schools in these student choice rankings that greatly outperform their
results in rankings based on selectivity, test scores and so forth include those
with a religious thrust like Brigham Young University and those with a narrow
focus on a subject like the Fashion Institute of Technology or the Rhode Island
School of Design. The same could be said of schools with a science and
technology focus. M.I.T. made No. 2 n these rankings, narrowly edging out
Harvard, in contrast to its No. 7 ranking in U.S. News's list.

As high school seniors begin work on their college applications, these seeming
anomalies show something important: While social pressure often steers people
toward the best schools as measured by things like standardized test scores and
rejection rates, many students have found that the best school for them is not
necessarily the highest ranked, but one that is most tailored with respect to
type of education or fellow students.

And the outperformance of those schools with a specialized mission in the
revealed preference rankings is a sign of how colleges and universities that
provide some unique cultural or educational experience can have a surprising
advantage over more selective schools.

''My visit to Mudd just felt better and more natural than when I visited any of
the other colleges on my list,'' said David Tenorio, who chose the 800-student,
math-and-engineering focused Harvey Mudd College in Claremont, Calif. He said he
had been admitted to 10 other schools last year, including Harvard and
Northwestern. ''There were elaborate stories of pranks, people flying around on
freelines and unicycles, and a variety of bizarre traditions,'' he said of his
visit to the school.

He saw in Harvey Mudd a mix of a demanding technical education paired with some
of the advantages of a liberal arts college like enthusiastic professors, a less
cutthroat feel than some bigger schools and a greater sense of fun. Harvey Mudd
is the No. 10 ranked liberal arts college in Parchment's latest rankings,
compared with No. 16 in the U.S. News rankings.

Most national universities are essentially the department stores of higher
education. They provide a full range of goods for sale, with differences mainly
in quality and price (Stanford is presumably Saks Fifth Avenue; the University
of Wisconsin is perhaps Macy's). These schools with a specialized mission are
more like the funky boutiques that appeal to one particular type of customer and
are certainly not for everyone -- but can be deeply satisfying to some.

The success of the schools with a specialized mission in these student-selection
rankings reflects the mechanics of how people apply to college, argues Matthew
Pittinsky, chief executive of Parchment. Students considering going to the U.S.
Naval Academy might also apply to their state's flagship university and several
elite private colleges, but when it is time to decide where to go, they are
ultimately making a binary decision between a career as Navy officer versus a
more standard college experience.

''Students aren't rational applicants,'' Mr. Pittinsky said. ''They aren't
necessarily internally consistent in where they apply. They may apply to a big
school and a small school, an urban school and a rural school, a
mission-oriented school like a military academy and also a liberal arts college.
But when they apply to one of those mission-oriented schools, they have a very
strong interest, and so they choose them at a higher rate.''

And money comes into play as well. The Parchment rankings do not attempt any
adjustment for the amount of tuition a school charges. That gives school that
are free or very inexpensive for all attendees, including the military
academies, a leg up when they are ranked by student choices as opposed to
factors like standardized test scores.

The schools that fit in this category of pursuing specialized mission have to do
plenty of work to make sure they are bringing in the applicants for whom that
mission is a fit, reinforcing what makes that institution unique.

''We recite the mission at every information session and every school visit,''
said Thyra Briggs, the vice president of admissions and financial aid at Harvey
Mudd. ''The result is we have an incredibly self-selecting applicant pool. We're
not choosing between qualified and unqualified students, but rather we're trying
to figure out who best fits that commitment to the balance of science,
technology and engineering with humanities and social sciences.''

The effect can be as powerful for a school with a mission toward a particular
discipline, like Harvey Mudd, as it is for those aimed at a particular type of
student, like Mount Holyoke. The women's college ranks No. 13 in the Parchment
revealed preference rankings for liberal arts schools versus No. 38 in U.S.
News's rankings.

At Berea, the college focused on economically disadvantaged students from
Appalachia, that means doing everything possible to make the school accessible
and within reach to its applicants, many of whom are the first in their family
to go to college.

There is a house where prospective students and their parents can stay while
visiting the campus, for example, as many in the target demographic can't easily
afford a hotel. The college provides laptops to students that they can keep
after graduation, and it has a clothing fund to help them afford something to
wear for job interviews as they enter the work force.

And to encourage better fitness in a region with some of the highest obesity
rates in the country, the college president, Lyle Roelofs, has a standing offer
to buy a pair of running shoes for students who will join him for his regular
jog if they cannot afford their own.

''I didn't decide until the last week of my senior year,'' said Will Bowling,
who was among the top students in his high school class in Owsley County, Ky.,
one of the poorest in the nation. He just began his freshman year at Berea.
''But the atmosphere, it's really one of kindness. Acceptance, really. It's
different from most places, and it's hard to find that.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/04/upshot/why-colleges
-with-a-distinct-focus-have-a-hidden-advantage.html

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David Tenorio chose 800-student Harvey Mudd College in
Claremont, Calif., over Harvard, drawn to what he saw as the mix of a rigorous
technical education with some of the advantages of a liberal arts school.
 Parking for skateboards at  Harvey Mudd, which is  known for its
quirkiness.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company

                              371 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                         Daily Dispatch (South Africa)

                             March 17, 2015 Tuesday

Selborne, Hudson lead the top rankings

BYLINE: By Ross Roche

SECTION: SPORT

LENGTH: 509 words


Schools graded by magazine for their past performances
 SELBORNE College and Hudson Park High School lead the way for Border Schools in
a recent rankings system that is sure to spark lively debates on the subject.


 SA school sport The Magazine recently released a schools' sporting ranking that
encompassed four different sporting codes: rugby, hockey, cricket and water
polo; and then graded schools on their exploits over the past three to four
years.
 The resultant ranking gives an idea which is currently the best sporting school
in the country due to their results over the stipulated time frame in these
codes.
 A list of 65 schools has been released and the added sporting codes has seen a
very big shake-up amongst the usual dominant rugby topping schools.
 In the latest rankings six schools from the Border region make the cut, with a
further eight schools from around the Eastern Cape on the list.
 "These rankings certainly aren't gospel by a long shot," admitted Hudson Park
High deputy head Dave Alers.
 "They are an indication of performance but there are weaknesses in terms of the
rankings generally.
 "All in all I think the results are fairly accurate in the spread, but the
exact positioning in the rankings is always up for debate," added Alers.
 Selborne College are the top- ranked Border school on the list in fourth place
overall, as their solid all-round sport talent shines through.
 However, they are not the highest ranked Eastern Cape school with that
distinction going to Grey High in Port Elizabeth, who actually top the current
list ahead of their powerhouse namesake Grey College and Wynberg Boys' High, who
occupy second and third spots respectively.
  Hudson Park, second on the Border, occupy the 27th place overall on the list.
This is a great achievement for a co-ed school and they should be relatively
happy with their ranking.
 "I think the competition here in Border is a little bit easier than in some of
the other regions like the Western Cape and Gauteng, so perhaps the rankings
have been a little bit kind to the schools here on that side," claimed Alers.
 "But we must not underscore our performances and ability as we have certainly
beaten some top teams and deserve to be recognised for it."
 Traditional rivals Queen's College and Dale College just can't seem to keep out
of competition as they sit right on top of each other as the third and
fourth-ranked Border schools on the list. Queen's at 37th overall sit just a
place above Dale as their close competition continues.
 The remaining Border schools on the list see Stirling High School sitting on a
good 48th place while Cambridge High are 63rd overall.
 The other Eastern Cape Schools on the list are St Andrew's College (20),
Pearson High School (22), Kingswood College (32), Woodridge College (42),
Framesby High School (43), Muir College (53) and Graeme College (65).
 With so many schools from around the country meeting the required criteria to
be ranked among the best sporting schools, all the schools that made the list
can be proud of their achievements.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Daily Dispatch


                    Copyright 2015 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             October 6, 2017 Friday

WSJ study puts Marietta among the best in student success

LENGTH: 333  words



Columbus: Marietta College has issued the following news release:
Marietta College ranks No. 230 nationally in the 2018 Wall Street Journal/Times
Higher Education survey of more than 1,000 U.S. colleges and universities
released last week.


"WSJ provides, in my opinion, one of the most comprehensive and fair evaluations
of Colleges, so I'm thrilled that they have identified Marietta as one of the
best in the state of Ohio and our country," said Steve Lazowski, Vice President
for Enrollment Management. "The Wall Street Journal ranking continues to
reinforce the value proposition, superior student outcomes and amazing academic
programs we offer our students."
The WSJ/THE College Rankings, now in its second year, has earned critical
acclaim for its approach to ranking U.S. colleges and universities that puts
student success and learning at the heart of rankings. These rankings provide
students and institutions with access to a comprehensive list of more than 1,000
institutions evaluated on their educational impact and the lifetime benefit to
students.
The new ranking uses a set of comprehensive metrics to determine whether a
college offers students sufficient resources to succeed, whether students feel
challenged and engaged, whether the student body is diverse and international,
and whether graduates succeed by paying off their loans and can find satisfying
high-paying jobs.
Marietta ranks 10th in Ohio, second in the Ohio Athletic Conference and 51st in
the Midwest.
Marietta's best score came in the Engagement category with a score of 79.5 (the
worldwide median is 78.3). However, Resources was also a strong score of 63 (the
worldwide median is 39). In Outcomes, Marietta scored 52.5 (median is 39.3) and
35.1 in Environment (median is 48.5).
According to WSJ/THE, the rankings aim to address the questions that matter most
when choosing a college:
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     High Point Enterprise (North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           September 12, 2017 Tuesday

HPU ranks at top of colleges in U.S. News and World Report

BYLINE: The High Point Enterprise, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 297 words


Sept. 12--HIGH POINT -- High Point University has been named No. 1 three times
in the 2018 edition of "America's Best Colleges," published annually by U.S.
News and World Report.

In the 2018 list released Tuesday, HPU ranks at the top for the following:

--Best Regional College in the South for the sixth consecutive year. The
university received a perfect overall score of 100 in the ranking.

--Most Innovative College in the South for the third consecutive year. The
ranking is based on surveys of top academics such as presidents, provosts and
admissions deans who rank schools that are making the most innovative
improvements in terms of curriculum, faculty, students, campus life, technology
and facilities. HPU is the only regional college in the South named Most
Innovative this year.

--Best Regional College in the South for Undergraduate Teaching. The ranking is
determined by responses from the country's top academic experts who select the
universities that are most strongly committed to undergraduate education. HPU is
the only regional college in the South recognized this year for undergraduate
teaching.

In addition to these No. 1 rankings, HPU also was recognized for its study
abroad programs.

The rankings come on the heels of other national honors HPU has received. In
August, HPU was named to "The Best 382 Colleges: 2018 Edition" for its academic
programming, as well as positive survey responses and feedback from students,
parents and higher education leaders across the country.

The Princeton Review rankings also named HPU as one of the top 20 universities
in the nation in several categories.

___ (c)2017 The High Point Enterprise (High Point, N.C.) Visit The High Point
Enterprise (High Point, N.C.) at www.hpenews.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170912-HP-HPU-ranks-at-top-of-colleges
-in-U-S-News-and-World-Report-0912-20170912

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HP


                      Copyright 2017 High Point Enterprise

                              374 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            August 17, 2010 Tuesday
                             First Replate Edition

Georgia colleges remain strong in national rankings;
Emory is state's best, says U.S. News & World Report.

BYLINE: Laura Diamond; Staff

SECTION: METRO NEWS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 337 words


Georgia's colleges remained strongly represented on the popular and
controversial U.S. News &World Report's rankings released Tuesday.

Emory University was the highest-ranked Georgia college, coming in at No. 20
among national public and private universities. Emory dropped from last year's
No. 17, but has been in the top 20 for 18 consecutive years.

Georgia Tech was ranked No. 7 among public universities and tied with University
of California at San Diego. Among national public and private universities it
came in at No. 35, the same spot as last year. Tech was ranked No. 4 among
engineering schools where the highest degree granted is a Ph.D.

The University of Georgia came in at No. 18 among public colleges, improving
from last year's No. 21. UGA was in a four-way tie with Ohio State University,
Purdue University and the University of Maryland. Among national public and
private universities, UGA was in a seven-way tie for No. 56.

Spelman College ranked No. 1 among historically black colleges. This is the
college's fourth consecutive year in the top spot. Morehouse College was No. 3.

The magazine used reputation, class size, retention and graduation rates, alumni
giving, faculty resources and other factors to determine the list.

Some colleges have criticized the rankings, saying statistics can't measure the
quality of an institution. But many high school students and their parents
scrutinize the rankings as they decide where to apply.

The magazine added a category this year asking high school guidance counselors
their opinions. The counselors ranked Emory and Tech as No. 22 among the top 47
national universities.

The rankings can be viewed at: www.usnews.com/colleges.

Top universities

U.S. News & World Report's rankings of the top national public and private
universities:

1. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

2. Princeton University, Princeton, N.J.

3. Yale University, New Haven, Conn.

4. Columbia University, New York

5. (tie) Stanford University, Stanford, Calif., University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2010 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                              375 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                      August 20, 2004 Friday Home Edition

Georgia colleges slip in rankings;
Only UGA holds steady as Emory, Tech slip just a touch in U.S. News' annual
report

BYLINE: KELLY SIMMONS

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Metro News; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 464 words


Athens --- Emory University and Georgia Tech slipped slightly as the University
of Georgia held its own in this year's U.S. News & World Report rankings of the
nation's universities, released today.

Georgia Tech fell four spots, from 37 to 41, in the overall rankings. Tech
President Wayne Clough blamed state budget cuts for causing Tech to reduce
faculty resources and increase class size, which can negatively affect the
rankings.

"This has been a difficult year for higher education in Georgia, and I'm pleased
that we were able to maintain high rankings," Clough said.

Emory, ranked 18th overall last year, fell to 20th. UGA remained at 58.

Among public universities, Tech fell a notch while UGA gained ground. Tech,
ranked ninth among public universities last year, is 10th this year. This is
Tech's sixth straight year among the top 10 state-run universities.

UGA moved from 20th to 19th place among public universities, tied with Rutgers
University-New Brunswick in New Jersey and the University of Iowa. UGA has been
among the top 20 public universities for five straight years.

UGA administrators were pleased. "This year's ranking, more than any other, is a
special tribute to the faculty and staff, who have performed in the past year at
a very high level despite significant budget challenges," UGA President Michael
Adams said in a statement.

Notable among the state's smaller schools, Berry College remained in second
place among Southern comprehensive colleges --- schools that focus on
undergraduate studies. Berea College in Kentucky held on to the top spot.

In addition to its usual rankings, U.S. News has begun citing schools for
special initiatives such as increasing racial and ethnic diversity on campus.
Georgia State University was identified as one of the top 19 schools in the
country, with a 36 percent black enrollment last year. Wesleyan College in
Macon, also with 36 percent black enrollment, was among liberal arts colleges
cited for diversity. Agnes Scott College and Oglethorpe University, each of
which has 21 percent black enrollment, also made the liberal arts colleges list.

U.S. News selected the schools based on their enrollment of blacks, Hispanics,
American Indians, Alaskan natives, Asian-Americans and Pacific islanders.
International students were not included.

Often loved by schools that fare well and loathed by those that don't, the
rankings are frequently used by universities to market themselves to potential
students. U.S. News uses such measures as SAT scores, faculty-to-student ratios,
graduation rates and student retention to determine the rankings.

The rankings will be posted at www.usnews.com today and will appear in the Aug.
30 issue of the magazine, which hits newsstands on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphic: TOP UNIVERSITIES
1. Harvard
Princeton
3. Yale
4. Pennsylvania
5. Duke
MIT
Stanford
8. Calif. Institute of Technology
9. Columbia
Dartmouth
20. Emory
41. Georgia Tech
58. Georgia
TOP PUBLIC UNIVERSITIES
1. California-Berkeley
2. Michigan
Virginia
4. UCLA
5. North Carolina
6. William & Mary
7. Wisconsin
8. California-San Diego
9. Illinois
10. Georgia Tech
19. Georgia
Rutgers-New Brunswick
Iowa
Source: U.S. News & World Report

                Copyright 2004 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                              376 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             May 29, 2013 Wednesday

EDITORIAL: RANKING COLLEGES

BYLINE: The Free Lance-Star, Fredericksburg, Va.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 199 words


May 29--BY NOW many high school seniors with their sights set on attending a
four-year college in the fall have made their choices. For most, the field of
more than 2,000 accredited colleges and universities in the United States was
easily winnowed based on geography, cost, academic requirements, course
offerings, and various other factors.

Then there are the college rankings. In the past year, U.S. News outed several
highly regarded schools for falsifying their admissions figures to boost their
rankings and make themselves more attractive to high-caliber students. The
rankings are an innovative concept that can provide valuable college profile
information about academics, student retention, faculty quality, and financial
aid. But the lesson from recent events is this: Buyer beware. Take these
statistics with a grain of salt, especially when schools show a meteoric rise in
stature.

The importance of being a smart consumer is never more important than when
choosing, and investing in, a college or university.

___ (c)2013 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Va.) Visit The Free Lance-Star
(Fredericksburg, Va.) at www.fredericksburg.com/flshome Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130529-FB-EDITORIAL-RANKING-COLLEGES-0529-20130529

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FB


                       Copyright 2013 The Free Lance-Star

                              377 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                   December 15, 2001 Saturday CITY-D EDITION

Minn. college No. 1 in ignoring God? Its president thinks not;
He takes issue with the Princeton Review ranking,
noting the 10 religion-affiliated groups on campus.

BYLINE: Kristina Torres KNIGHT RIDDER NEWS SERVICE

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 366 words

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, Minn.


Everybody wants to be first, but one such ranking for Macalester College had
president Michael McPherson so incensed, he shot off an e-mail suggesting
prayer.

"I was annoyed," said McPherson, who recently discovered his St. Paul college's
No. 1 Princeton Review ranking as the school where "students ignore God on a
regular basis."

He has since rescinded his suggestion that students log on to the company's Web
site and say they pray a lot. But he maintains that the ranking is "just dumb. I
certainly never suggested anybody should misrepresent themselves on the survey.
The right response to silly nonsense is to ignore it."

Princeton Review is a test-preparation and college-admissions service that for
the last 10 years has annually released The Best 331 Colleges, a guidebook
ranking everything from parties to cafeteria food and based on survey data from,
at last count, 65,000 college students.

It's not exactly scientific, but "it is so dead-on," said Robert Franek, one of
the coauthors and the company's director of guidebook publication. "It's the
opinion of the experts, who are the students of these schools."

The rankings, released in August, have included Macalester on the "ignore God"
list since 1995. But it was only about a month ago that McPherson, whose
1,780-student school is affiliated with the Presbyterian Church, received a few
faxes complaining about the ranking.

Because the survey and its results are also available online, McPherson seized
on the idea of an online response.

Franek said this was the first time he had heard of such a response by a college
president.

McPherson, still angry that there is no readily available disclaimer about how
the data are collected, notes that the one survey question about religion does
not ask students if they "ignore God," but rather asks them to respond to a
statement about whether students at their school are "strongly religious."

Macalester has 10 religion-affiliated student groups on campus, and "there
aren't a large number of Macalester students who feel a large detachment from
God," McPherson said.

"I'm still annoyed," he added. "People may actually think this is based on
something."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Herald-Times (Bloomington, Indiana)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          September 14, 2016 Wednesday

IU drops 11 spots in U.S. News & World Report's college rankings

BYLINE: Michael Reschke, Herald-Times, Bloomington, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 698 words


Sept. 14--Indiana University-Bloomington has fallen 11 spots in U.S. News &
World Report's 2017 Best Colleges Rankings, compared with last year.

The rankings, released Tuesday, put IU at No. 86 in a six-way tie with
Binghamton University, Marquette University, the University of Denver, the
University of San Diego and the University of Tulsa. Last year, IU was in a
seven-way tie for the No. 75 ranking with Clark University, the Colorado School
of Mines, Michigan State University, Stevens Institute of Technology, the
University of Delaware and the University of Massachusetts at Amherst.

In a statement, IU spokeswoman Margie Smith-Simmons said the U.S. News ranking
is just one of many.

"It's important to note that there is no single ranking that fully reflects the
full measure or true standing of any one institution," she said in an email.

U.S. News uses a variety of categories to come up with its rankings. The
outcomes category, which includes things such as retention, graduation rate
performance and graduation rate, carry the most weight and account for 30
percent of the equation. Retention measures the percentage of freshmen returning
to campus and eventually graduating. Graduation rate performance measures how
well schools are graduating their students based on U.S. News predictions, which
consider spending, test scores and the proportion of students receiving Pell
Grants. IU's four-year graduation rate is 60 percent, according to the rankings
report.

Expert opinion accounts for 22.5 percent of an institution's ranking. Experts
include college and university presidents, provosts, high school counselors and
admissions deans.

"These experts are in the best position to judge a school's undergraduate
academic quality," according to U.S. News' explanation of its methodology.

Faculty resources account for 20 percent. This category takes into account
things such as class size, student-to-faculty ratio, proportion of full-time
faculty, proportion of professors with the highest degrees in their field and
faculty salary.

"The more satisfied students are with their professors, the more likely they
will learn and the more likely they are to graduate, studies show," according to
the methodology explanation.

The majority of classes at IU, about 46 percent, have between 20 and 49
students, according to the rankings report. About 35 percent have fewer than 20
students, while about 18 percent have 50 or more.

Student excellence accounts for 12.5 percent of the ranking methodology,
financial resources count for 10 percent and alumni giving accounts for 5
percent.

Princeton University topped the list of best national universities again,
followed by Harvard University, which also held the same spot last year. The
University of Chicago jumped one spot to tie with Yale University for the No. 3
ranking.

Northwestern University was the top-ranked Big Ten institution, sharing the No.
12 ranking with the California Institute of Technology. The University of Notre
Dame was in a four-way tie for the No. 15 ranking, while Purdue University's
West Lafayette campus shared the No. 60 spot with five other schools. Ball State
University came in at No. 176, along with six other institutions.

In addition to the Best National Universities ranking, U.S. News put IU at No.
53 in its list of Best Colleges for Veterans and No. 67 in its High School
Counselor Rankings. Among public universities, IU-Bloomington was ranked No. 36,
tied with Binghamton University.

IU's Kelley School of Business was in a five-way tie with Cornell University,
the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the University of Notre Dame
and the University of Southern California for the No. 9 spot on U.S. News' list
of Best Undergraduate Business Programs rankings. It was the fourth consecutive
year that Kelley has been ranked in the top 10 among business schools.

A press release about the 2017 rankings can be found here:
http://www.usnews.com/info/blogs/press-room/articles/2016-09-13/us-news-releases
-2017-best-colleges-rankings.

___ (c)2016 the Herald-Times (Bloomington, Ind.) Visit the Herald-Times
(Bloomington, Ind.) at www.heraldtimesonline.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160914-BM-IU-drops-11-spots-in-U-S-News-World-Report-s-
college-rankings-0914-20160914

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                          Copyright 2016 Herald-Times

                              379 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Afternoon Voice (India)

                              April 3, 2017 Monday

IISc Bangalore Best University in country, IIT Bombay on #3 in India Rankings
2017

LENGTH: 409 words

DATELINE: India


India, April 3 -- Delhi's Miranda House and Bengaluru's Indian Institute of
Science are India's best college and university, a countrywide government
ranking of educational institutions said on Monday, whereas seven IITs are in
the top 10 Institutions where IIT Bombay is on third rank. The rankings were
released by HRD minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday.

It is to be noted that Delhi's St Stephen's College, Hindu College, Delhi School
of Economics, Ramjas College and Hansraj College, among others, didn't apply for
the annual rankings.

The institutes were marked on 20 parameters under the National Institutional
Ranking Framework (NIRF) that was launched last year.

The criteria used to rank the institutions included teaching/learning resources,
research, graduation outcomes (employability), outreach/ social and gender
inclusivity and perception. Over 3,300 institutes participated in the second
edition of the India Rankings.

Releasing the list in New Delhi, Union Human Resource Development
MinisterPrakash Javadekarsaid that the government will provide more grants and
funds for institutions faring better in rankings.

In the category of Engineering institutions, IIT Madras has made it to the top
for second year in a row.

The rankings called National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) is an
initiative of the BJP government, started last year.

The first ranking list was launched by HRD Minister Prakash Javadekar's
predecessor Smriti Irani. While the basic structure of ranking institutions
based on categories has been retained this year as well, the college based
category is a new addition.

During the announcement of rankings on Monday, HRD Minister also mentioned that
the government will give more funding to ranked institutions. "We want to make a
policy announcement today. Ranked institutions will get more funding and more
grants from the government. This will also encourage them to perform better,"
the minister said.

Kolkata's Jadavpur University - whose students have also faced criticism for
being "anti-national" - was ranked fifth among universities.

"Jadavpur and JNU haven't got good ranking for raising slogan for Afzal Guru but
for doing good work," human resource development minister Prakash Javadekar
said.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Afternoon Voice.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 afternoonvoice.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   The Times-Tribune (Scranton, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 13, 2011 Tuesday

Area colleges receive national rankings

BYLINE: Sarah Hofius Hall, The Times-Tribune, Scranton, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 304 words


Sept. 13--Area colleges are receiving national recognition.

U.S. News & World Report rankings, released today, give area schools another
point to list in their guidebooks.

The University of Scranton is tied for eighth in the best regional universities
in the north category. King's College tied for 39th, and Marywood and
Misericordia universities are tied for 52nd. Wilkes University is tied for 68th.

The magazine looked at a dozen factors in determining rankings, including
retention, acceptance and graduation rates, class size and student-to-faculty
ratio.

The University of Scranton also is one of six regional universities in the north
that are on the 2012 "up-and-comers" list, which was composed from nominations
by college administrators who were asked to name schools that have made the
"most promising and innovative changes" in the areas of academics, faculty,
student life, campus or facilities.

The school also was named on the "great schools, great prices" list.

"I am thrilled by the numerous national accolades the University of Scranton has
received for community service, academics, value and even as being one of the
friendliest schools in the nation," said the Rev. Kevin Quinn, S.J., president.
"The consistent recognition of the University of Scranton among the nation's
best colleges is a testament to the dedication of the faculty and staff and of
the quality of our students."

Keystone College was tied for 34th on the regional colleges in the north list.

"The ranking is a tribute to the dedication and ongoing accomplishments of our
students, faculty and staff," college president Dr. Edward G. Boehm Jr. said.

Contact the writer: shofius@timesshamrock.com

___ (c)2011 The Times-Tribune (Scranton, Pa.) Visit The Times-Tribune (Scranton,
Pa.) at thetimes-tribune.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110913-YT-Area-colleges-receive-national-rankings-0913-20110913

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YT


                        Copyright 2011 The Times-Tribune

                              381 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                           August 23, 2008, Saturday

W.Va. colleges ranked in U.S. News & World Report

BYLINE: Alison Knezevich, Staff writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P2A

LENGTH: 481 words


Several West Virginia schools fared well among Southern institutions in the U.S.
News & World Report college rankings, but no schools ranked high nationally.

The magazine released its 2009 rankings Friday on its Web site, and will also
publish the results in its Sept. 1 issue.

"While we may not have institutions in the top 20 nationally ... the rankings do
show we have quality institutions across the system," said Brian Noland,
chancellor of the state's Higher Education Policy Commission.

In the Southern baccalaureate college category, the University of Charleston
ranked best in the state, in 15th place. Davis & Elkins College was close behind
in 18th place. Baccalaureate colleges focus on undergraduate education but grant
fewer than half their degrees in liberal arts disciplines.

Also in that category, Alderson-Broaddus College ranked 21st, Shepherd
University ranked 40th and Concord University ranked 45th.

UC's ranking has jumped a few notches over the past few years. Last year, it
ranked 18th in its category, and it ranked 21st in 2006.

"I believe more people are learning about us, and our reputation is getting
better," UC President Ed Welch said.

Welch said he expects UC to switch categories - to the regional master's
universities grouping - within a few years, because it has added graduate
programs in pharmacy and business.

Wheeling Jesuit ranked 16th among master's universities in the South, faring
best among West Virginia schools in that category. Marshall University ranked
43rd in the same group. These schools are described as offering a full range of
undergraduate programs and some master's, but few doctoral programs.

Among national universities, West Virginia University ranked in the third tier,
meaning it placed between 134th and 196th among 262 universities.

"I think there are other criteria that students look at," WVU spokeswoman Janey
Cink said. "We're a well-established land-grant [institution] with a lot of
nationally recognized faculty. ... I think our reputation is reflected in the
exponential growth in enrollment, and the growth in numbers of our academically
talented students, and the [job] placement rates."

In the liberal arts college rankings, Bethany College ranked in the third tier.
West Virginia State University and West Virginia Wesleyan College both were in
the fourth tier.

Noland called the rankings important but said they are "not perfect" indicators
of quality.

"The rankings do have an influence on students' perception and where they're
going to college," he said.

U.S. News & World Report bases its rankings on factors including student test
scores and retention rates, alumni giving and reputation.

Most of the controversy surrounding rankings has related to the reputation
factor, UC's Welch said.

"It is an important factor," he said. "How you measure it is tough."

Reach Alison Knezevich at alisonk@wvgazette.com or 348-1240.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Charleston Newspapers

                              382 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                             August 25, 2008 Monday

Doane ranks 59 out of 569 on Forbes.com list;
School is highest among Nebraska institutions.

BYLINE: Lincoln Journal Star

SECTION: Pg. D1

LENGTH: 329 words


Doane College in Crete is No. 59 in a new Forbes.com ranking of America's best
colleges, highest among Nebraska institutions.

The Forbes.com list, intended to be an alternative to the popular but sometimes
controversial U.S. News & World Report rankings, was released Aug. 14 and
includes 569 U.S. undergraduate institutions.

The rankings are based on the quality of education colleges provide and how much
students achieve. They were completed with help from an economist from Ohio
University and the Center for College Affordability and Productivity.

Nebraska Wesleyan University was ranked No. 78, Hastings College was No. 226,
Creighton University was No. 441 and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln was No.
483.

Rankings in general often draw criticism, Doane President Jonathan Brand
acknowledged.

But "the fact remains that prospective students care about them," Brand said.
"It is very satisfying to see Doane rated so highly based on rankings that focus
on outcomes - how much our students learn and achieve. That is what we are all
about - making a difference in our students' lives."

Forbes.com says its ranking methodology attempted to look at colleges from a
student's perspective, answering questions like: How good will my professors be?
Will the school help me achieve career success? If I borrow to pay for college,
how deeply will I go into debt? What are the chances of graduating in four
years? Are students and faculty recognized nationally and internationally?

One-quarter of the rankings were based on student evaluations of courses and
instructors on the Web site RateMyProfessors.com. Another 25 percent comes from
how many of the school's alumni are listed among Who's Who in America.

The final half of the rankings is based equally on these factors: the average
amount of debt at graduation by those students who borrowed; the percentage of
students graduating in four years; and the share of students and faculty who
have won nationally competitive awards.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009 Monday

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Lincoln Journal Star
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

College Rankings Fail to Measure the Influence of the Institution

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1440 words


Students, parents and educators increasingly obsessed with college rankings have
a new tool: the Obama administration's College Scorecard. The new database
focuses on a college's graduation rate, its students' median earnings 10 years
after entering the institution and the percentage of students paying back their
college loans.

While Scorecard adds potentially valuable information to the dizzying array that
is already available, it suffers from many of the same flaws that afflict nearly
every other college ranking system: There is no way to know what, if any, impact
a particular college has on its students' earnings, or life for that matter.

''It's a classic example of confusing causation and correlation,'' said Frank
Bruni, the author of ''Where You Go Is Not Who You'll Be,'' a book about the
college admissions process, and an op-ed columnist for The New York Times.
''Anyone who has taken statistics should know better, but when it comes to
colleges, that's what people do. They throw common sense out the window.''

Of course graduates of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (average
postgraduate earnings $91,600, according to the Scorecard) and Harvard ($87,200)
do well. That's because the students they admit have some of the highest test
scores and high school grade point averages in the country, reflecting high
intelligence and a strong work ethic -- two factors that cause high future
earnings. That is generally true regardless of where such students attend
college, as long as they go to a reputable four-year institution, various
studies have shown.

''It's absurd,'' said Jerry Z. Muller, a professor of history at Catholic
University of America and the author of ''The Costs of Accountability,'' a study
of misplaced and misunderstood metrics. ''Their graduates have high earnings
because they're incredibly selective about who they let in. And many of them
come from privileged backgrounds, which also correlates with high earnings.''

The College Scorecard does not rank colleges, but anyone can use the data to do
so. M.I.T. (No. 6 on Scorecard earnings) and Harvard (No. 8) are the only
universities in the Scorecard's top 10 that are also highly ranked by the
influential U.S. News and World Report. The other schools have a narrow focus on
highly paid skills. The No. 1 school on Scorecard is MCPHS University, whose
graduates earn, on average, $116,400. (MCPHS stands for Massachusetts College of
Pharmacy and Health Sciences, which is not even ranked by U.S. News.)

But pay, of course, says nothing about the relative quality of different
colleges. ''If you go to M.I.T. and earn a degree in engineering, you're going
to make more than if you go to Oberlin and major in music performance,''
Professor Muller said. ''But you already know this. To rank the value of
colleges based on the ultimate earnings of their graduates radically narrows the
concept of what college is supposed to be for.''

Andrew Delbanco, a professor at Columbia University and author of the book ''
College: What It Was, Is, and Should Be,'' agreed. ''Holding colleges
accountable for how well they prepare students for postcollege life is a good
thing in principle,'' he said. ''But measuring that preparation in purely
monetary terms raises many dangers. Should colleges be encouraged first and
foremost to maximize the net worth of their graduates? I don't think so.''

And that is assuming the earnings data is reliable. Scorecard draws from a
substantial database of tax returns, but measures the postgraduate incomes only
of students who received federal loans or grants, which excludes most students
from high-income families. And high family income is a factor that correlates
strongly with postgraduate earnings.

PayScale, which ranks colleges based on postgraduate earnings reported by users
of its web services, produces numbers that in many cases are substantially
different from Scorecard's. PayScale's ''midcareer'' earnings for graduates of
Harvard (ranked third at $126,000) and M.I.T., (No. 6, at $124,000) are much
higher than Scorecard's figures.

As with Scorecard, PayScale's top-ranked institutions, SUNY-Maritime College in
the Bronx ($134,000) and Harvey Mudd College in Claremont, Calif. ($133,000),
train students for specialized, high-paying fields.

U.S. News does not even include earnings data in its ranking formula, although
it said it might do so. ''The federal data is a large and new data set, and
we're studying it,'' said Brian Kelly, editor and chief content officer for U.S.
News. ''It represents a subset of students, and we're looking closely to
determine if it in fact tells us what it claims to.''

Some schools highly ranked by U.S. News -- Grinnell, Smith and Wellesley, for
example -- have low rankings on PayScale and low earnings results on Scorecard.
Mr. Kelly said U.S. News was examining these ''anomalies.''

This year, the Brookings Institution published its own ambitious college
rankings that try to improve upon what it sees as flaws in the other lists. It
calculates the ''value added'' of each college by comparing what graduates would
be expected to earn given their entering characteristics to what they do earn
after graduating.

Because of their high test scores and other factors, students entering Harvard
would be expected to do well in postgraduate earnings (a projected $85,950,
according to Brookings). That they actually earned $118,200 is a measure of what
a Harvard education added to their potential earnings.

The Brookings rankings factor in the nature of a college's curriculum, the
career choices of its graduates and the percentage of graduates prepared for
so-called STEM occupations (science, technology, engineering and math), so like
Scorecard and PayScale results, its rankings are dominated by schools with
narrow focuses on those high-paying areas.

Of the eight schools earning perfect scores of 100 in its rankings, five have
technology-focused curriculums: California Institute of Technology; M.I.T.;
Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology in Terre Haute, Ind.; SUNY-Maritime; and
Clarkson University in Potsdam, N.Y. (Brookings draws its data from PayScale,
LinkedIn and the Bureau of Labor Statistics.)

Jonathan Rothwell, a fellow at Brookings and an author of the study, said that
many educators applauded this approach but it had drawn criticism from the
liberal arts community, which says it unduly weights a narrow focus on
high-paying STEM fields. Mr. Rothwell defended that approach, noting that a
college's curriculum and what field a student studies were ''hugely relevant to
graduate success.''

But he acknowledged that liberal arts programs and programs that train students
for lower-paying fields were valuable to both individuals and society. ''If your
only goal is to make as much money as possible, you should study engineering,
computer science, biology or business,'' he said. ''But most people are
interested in more than just making money.''

So, for the benefit of those people, I asked Mr. Rothwell to do a ranking that
deleted the curriculum component and identified the highest ''value added''
colleges regardless of major. I'm calling this the Brookings-Common Sense
ranking. Here's the top 10:

1. Colgate University

2. Carleton College

3. Washington and Lee University

4. Westmont College

5. Kenyon College

6. Wagner College

7. Marietta College

8. Manhattan College

9. St. Mary's University

10. Pacific Lutheran University

Under this methodology, liberal arts schools like Colgate and Carleton shot up
the rankings. No Ivy League schools made the top 20 on this list, suggesting
that many of those students have an edge heading into college. The
highest-ranked Ivy was Brown, at No. 45. And most of the engineering and
technical schools, even M.I.T. and Caltech, stripped of their curricular
weighting, plummeted. (I studied history and French at DePauw University, a
liberal arts college, which ranked No. 19.)

The bottom line is that no ranking system or formula can really answer the
question of what college a student should attend. Getting into a highly
selective, top-ranked college may confer bragging rights, status and
connections, but it doesn't necessarily contribute to a good education or
lifelong success, financial or otherwise.

The obsession with college rankings and graduates' earnings ''is just the most
recent example of a larger phenomenon, which is that the gathering of numerical
information acts as a kind of wish fulfillment,'' Professor Muller said. ''If
you have enough metrics and benchmarks, somehow people believe that's going to
solve a major problem. It rarely does.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/02/business/new-college-rankings
-dont-show-how-alma-mater-affects-earnings.html

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: M.I.T.'s campus. Its graduates are high earners, but how much
credit does M.I.T. deserve for that? (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL MAROTTA/GETTY IMAGES)
(B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company

                              384 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 14, 2013 Saturday

U.S. News ranks Milligan among South's top 10 regional colleges

LENGTH: 381  words

DATELINE: Tennessee


Milligan College has issued the following news release:

Milligan College continues to receive national recognition for its high quality
and affordability, with U.S. News & World Report again naming it among the top
10 regional colleges in the South.

U.S. News & World Report's 2014 "Best Colleges" report released this morning
ranked Milligan eighth in the list of best regional colleges in the South. In
addition, Milligan is ranked No. 3 best value among regional colleges in the
South in the report's "Great Schools at Great Prices" category. The college also
is named among "A-Plus Schools for B Students."

"These rankings, which consider the cost and the quality of the education,
indicate that Milligan is a wise economic and academic investment," said
Milligan President Dr. Bill Greer. "We're pleased again to be a top 10 school in
the U.S. News rankings, and I'm especially grateful for another national
affirmation of Milligan's commitment to academic excellence and affordability."

The "Great Schools at Great Prices" results take into account the school's
academic quality, based on its U.S. News Best Colleges rankings, and the
2012-2013 net cost of attendance for a student who received the average level of
need-based financial aid. The higher the quality of the program and the lower
the cost, the better the deal, according to U.S. News.

The most complete version of the exclusive new rankings, data, tables and
lists--including extensive statistical profiles for each school and a search
tool to enable prospective students and parents to find the college that best
fits their needs--is available online at www.usnews.com/colleges. The "Best
Colleges 2014" guidebook will be on newsstands Sept. 24.

The U.S. News rankings come on the heels of several other national rankings that
spotlight Milligan's good value and reputation for high quality academics and
service. These include a Washington Monthly ranking naming Milligan among the
top 25 baccalaureate colleges in the nation and fifth among baccalaureate
schools offering the "Best Bang for the Buck." In addition, Milligan was named a
"College of Distinction" by a national college guide that recognizes
institutions with great teaching and successful outcomes.

For more information please visit: http://www.milligan.edu.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           The Ledger (Lakeland, FL)

                            August 18, 2007 Saturday

FLORIDA SOUTHERN CLAIMS HIGH PERCH IN RANKINGS;
SCHOOL IS FIFTH-BEST BACCALAUREATE COLLEGE IN THE SOUTH, ACCORDING TO ANNUAL
REPORT.

BYLINE: MATTHEW PLEASANT Special to The Ledger

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 507 words


LAKELAND -- U.S. News & World Report released its annual best-college rankings
Friday and despite a number of schools' refusal to take part in the survey,
local colleges continue to participate - and are climbing in the ranks.

If they do well, colleges often use their ranking to lure potential students,
even advertising their scores on their Web site.

One school that likes to boast of its high ranking is Florida Southern College,
which climbed three places this year to the fifth spot in the Best Baccalaureate
Colleges in the South.

The school is just behind John Brown University in Arkansas in the rankings.
Another Arkansas school, Ouachita Baptist University, tops the rankings for
Southern baccalaureate schools. Southeastern University was listed in the fourth
tier in this category.

The magazine judges schools on several criteria, such as SAT scores, graduation
rates, and percentage of full-time faculty members.

Florida Southern College went up in five categories: peer assessment, SAT scores
of entering students, freshman acceptance rate, percentage of alumni who donate
money to the school, and percentage of freshman who graduate in the top 25
percent of their high school class.

"In the last two years we've received the largest number of applicants in the
history of the college," said Lee Mayhall, Florida Southern's vice president of
college relations. "We've also accepted the lowest percentage of applicants in
that same time."

For the 2007-08 school year, FSC received 2,565 applicants, of which 1,496 were
accepted, Mayhall said. The school has also seen a 36-point increase in the SAT
scores of entering freshman in the last three years.

The average SAT score for this year's class is 1072.

The school's freshman retention rate dropped from last year's 71 percent to 69
percent in 2007.

But a higher percentage of alumni donated money to the school, the survey found,
increasing to 17 percent from last year's 12 percent.

The schools provide the information to the magazine.

FSC also made the magazine's "Best Value" list, schools noted for high academic
performance and low tuition costs.

The school moved to fourth place, edging out Alderson-Broaddus College in West
Virginia.

Fifty-eight percent of FSC students receive grants or scholarships based on
need, the survey states, bringing the average student's tuition to $16,849.

Rollins College in Winter Park rank first for Southern schools with master's
programs.

In the top tier of the national university category the University of Florida
ranked 49th, the University of Miami, 52, and Florida State University, 112th.

The University of Central Florida and the University of South Florida had
third-tier rankings in the same category.

Princeton University topped the magazine's list of national schools, with
Harvard University in second place.

A number of educators have criticized the magazine's rankings as unfair and
arbitrary.

Though 62 schools organized this year to protest the rankings, many of the
top-rated schools continue to use the rankings to bolster their reputations.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


             Copyright 2007 Lakeland Ledger Publishing Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          November 12, 2014 Wednesday

College football: TCU leaps over Alabama in latest CFP rankings

BYLINE: The Anniston Star, Ala.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 209 words


Nov. 12--Texas Christian leapfrogged Alabama in the College Football Playoffs
rankings that were released Tuesday night.

Texas Christian (8-1) knocked off Kansas State 41-20 and jumped from No. 6 to
No. 4 in the rankings. Alabama (8-1), which beat LSU 20-13 in overtime, remained
at No. 5.

Mississippi State (9-0) retained the No. 1 rankings, but Oregon (9-1) moved from
third to No. 2, while Florida State (9-0) dropped from second to No. 3.

Auburn (7-2) fell from third to No. 9 after losing 41-38 to Texas A&M on
Saturday.

The rest of the top 10 includes No. 6 Arizona State (8-1), No. 7 Baylor (8-1),
No. 8 Ohio State (8-1) and No. 10 Ole Miss (8-2).

College Football Playoffs rankings

1, Mississippi State, 9-0

2, Oregon, 9-1

3, Florida State, 9-0

4, TCU, 8-1

5, Alabama, 8-1

6, Arizona State, 8-1

7, Baylor, 8-1

8, Ohio State, 8-1

9, Auburn, 7-2

10, Ole Miss, 8-2

11, UCLA, 8-2

12, Michigan State, 7-2

13, Kansas State, 7-2

14, Arizona, 7-2

15, Georgia, 7-2

16, Nebraska, 8-1

17, LSU, 7-3

18, Notre Dame, 7-2

19, Clemson, 7-2

20, Wisconsin, 7-2

21, Duke, 8-1

22, Georgia Tech, 8-2

23, Utah, 6-3

24, Texas A&M, 7-3

25, Minnesota, 7-2

___ (c)2014 The Anniston Star (Anniston, Ala.) Visit The Anniston Star
(Anniston, Ala.) at www.annistonstar.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20141112-AO-College-football-TCU-leaps-over-Alabama-in-latest-CFP-
rankings-1112-20141112

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AO


                        Copyright 2014 The Anniston Star

                              387 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    Times-News (Burlington, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 17, 2007 Friday

Magazine gives Elon highest rank yet

BYLINE: Mike Wilder, Times-News, Burlington, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 556 words


Aug. 17--Elon University scored its highest ranking ever in the "America's Best
Colleges" issue of U.S. News & World Report.

Elon is ranked second among 119 master's-level universities in the South, up
from third last year. Appalachian State University in Boone was ranked 10th in
the same category.

Rollins College in Florida is first on the list among Southern master's-level
universities. Elon tied for second with Stetson University, also in Florida.

The schools ranked fourth through ninth in that category are James Madison
University in Virginia, The Citadel in South Carolina, Loyola University New
Orleans in Louisiana, Mercer University in Georgia, the College of Charleston in
South Carolina, and the University of Mary Washington in Virginia.

The rankings are part of the magazine's 2008 America's Best Colleges guide. The
rankings will be published in the magazine's Aug. 27 issue, which will be on
newsstands Monday. They will be available online at www.usnews.com/colleges Some
college leaders have been critical of the Best Colleges issue, complaining
specifically about a portion of the magazine's survey that asks school leaders
about the reputation of schools in various areas.

Elon University spokesman Dan Anderson said the school has not gotten involved
in that debate.

Anderson said the rankings are "just one of many signs of Elon's continued
growth in quality." This is Elon's seventh year in the top 10 in its category.
When Elon first appeared in the guide in 1995, it was ranked 39th.

Criteria for the rankings include student/faculty ratio, class size,
qualifications of freshmen entering the schools, and the percentage of
admissions applications that are accepted.

Elon did well in the portion of the guide based on surveys of college leaders.
Anderson pointed out the university was the only school in the country to be
mentioned in as many as six of eight categories.

Categories in which Elon was mentioned include internships, first-year
experiences, undergraduate research/creative projects, learning communities,
study abroad and service learning.

Among other schools in North Carolina, Duke University ranked eighth on the list
of Best National Universities. The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
ranked 28th in that category, and Wake Forest University ranked 30th. The
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill ranked fifth on the list of the Top
50 Public National Universities. N.C. State University in Raleigh ranked 38th in
that category.

Davidson College was the highest-ranking school in North Carolina in the "Best
Liberal Arts Colleges" category, ranking ninth.

Forty-seven baccalaureate colleges in the South are included in this year's
guide. High Point University was the only North Carolina school to make the top
10 in that category, ranking sixth. Two other schools in the state made the top
20. Lenoir-Rhyne College was ranked 13th and Catawba College was ranked 16th.

To see more of the Times-News, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.thetimesnews.com. Copyright (c) 2007, Times-News, Burlington, N.C.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070817-BT-Magazine-gives-Elon-highest-rank-yet-0817

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                           Copyright 2007 Times-News

                              388 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday

Geneva College Ranks Highly in Top Christian Colleges and Most Beautiful Campus
Lists

LENGTH: 393  words

DATELINE: New York



 Harrisburg: Geneva College has issued the following news release:
 Geneva College received two recognitions from ChristianUniversitiesOnline.org:
Top Christian Colleges and Universities in Pennsylvania 2017 - ranked #4, and 50
Most Beautiful Christian Colleges and Universities 2017 - ranked #13.





 Top Christian Colleges & Universities in PA 2017The Top Christian Colleges and
Universities in Pennsylvania  ranking is based on a number of criteria beginning
with membership in the Council for Christian Colleges & Universities (CCCU).
Other criteria considered were in the categories of faculty-to-student ratio,
percent of full-time undergraduates receiving grant or scholarship aid,
selectivity of admissions, overall retention rate and overall graduation rate.
Geneva's diverse majors and programs, selective acceptance rate, overall
retention and graduation rates and financial aid opportunities were cited as
reasons for the high ranking in the report



 50 Most Beautiful Christian Colleges & Universities 2017The 50 Most Beautiful
Christian Colleges and Universities ranking is based on CCCU membership or
membership eligibility and the physical surroundings and components, such as
buildings and layout. The ranking criteria were continuity of campus,
architectural style, signature buildings and natural settings. The scores in
these categories were weighted and final scores computed. Geneva's Ivy-League
style architecture and hilltop setting overlooking the Beaver River were noted
in the ranking reportGeneva College is a Christ-centered academic community that
provides a comprehensive education to equip students for faithful and fruitful
service to God and neighbor. Offering over 40 traditional undergraduate majors
and programs, Adult Degree Programs with fully online and classroom options, and
high-demand graduate degrees, Geneva's programs are recognized for their high
quality. U.S. News & World Report ranks Geneva as a Top Five Regional Best Value
with one of the Top 100 engineering programs in the nation. Adhering to the
truth of Scripture, a Geneva education is grounded in God's Word as well as in a
core curriculum designed to prepare students vocationally to think, write and
communicate well in today's world.
 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          February 25, 2015 Wednesday

Cal Poly Rated Most Efficient University in the West by U.S. News

LENGTH: 548  words

DATELINE: San Luis Obispo


California Polytechnic State University has issued the following news release:

Cal Poly is rated the most efficient school among regional western universities
in a U.S. News & World Report analysis that compared spending and educational
quality.

U.S. News looked at the public and private colleges that scored the highest on
overall undergraduate academic educational quality -- as measured by their
position in the magazine's 2015 Best Colleges rankings -- but that spent
relatively less on their educational programs to achieve that quality.

According to the magazine, schools such as Cal Poly are doing a good job in
managing their financial resources relative to other institutions that may have
far greater resources because of more state funding, higher tuition or a larger
endowment.

"This is yet another indicator of the quality and value of a Cal Poly
education," said university President Jeffrey D. Armstrong. "This ranking shows
parents, current and future students, alumni and taxpayers that we are being
judicious stewards in our mission to deliver a high-quality, cost-effective
education."

It's vital for colleges to efficiently spend their limited resources to produce
the highest possible educational quality amid a climate of diminishing state
support and increased public scrutiny about the rising cost of going to college,
the magazine said in a report released in January.

U.S. News measured financial resources by taking into account how much a school
spends per student on instruction, research, student services and related
educational expenditures. The financial resources indicator has a 10 percent
weight in the Best Colleges ranking methodology.

The latest rankings are based on operating efficiency, which the magazine
defines as a school's 2013 fiscal year financial resources per student divided
by its overall score in the 2015 Best Colleges rankings, which were released in
September. Cal Poly ranked 10th in the magazine's overall list of the West's
best universities on the Best Colleges list and was named the top public,
masters-level university in the west for the 22nd consecutive year

The university's spending per student for each point in U.S. News overall
efficiency score was $222.36 -- lowest among the top five western regional
universities. The other schools were: Western Washington University, $229.07;
California State University at Long Beach, $236.88; Cal Poly Pomona, $237.04;
and Gonzaga University, $245.34.

The calculation reveals how much each school is spending to achieve one point in
its overall score and thus its position in this year's Best Colleges rankings.
The premise of the analysis is that the less a school spent relative to its
position in the overall rankings, the more efficient it was in its ability to
produce a top-quality education, the magazine said.

Only schools that were numerically ranked in the top half of their ranking
category in the 2015 Best Colleges rankings were included in this analysis.

U.S. News & World Report published its first "America's Best Colleges" report in
1983. The rankings -- the most widely quoted of their kind in the nation -- have
been compiled and published annually since 1985.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                          September 14, 2002 Saturday

Clarke, Loras again among top schools; U.S. News: Clarke ranks 23rd, Loras 28th
for Midwestern colleges

BYLINE: mailto:dheldt@wcinet.comDIANE HELDT

SECTION: Pg. a1

LENGTH: 738 words


Clarke College and Loras College are again among the top 30 liberal arts schools
in the Midwest, according to a study released Friday by U.S. News and World
Report.

Clarke ranked 23rd and Loras tied for 28th among the 109 Midwestern schools
ranked in the Comprehensive Colleges-Bachelor's category for the magazine's
annual "America's Best Colleges" guidebook. The rankings are available at
www.usnews.com.

In the Midwest Universities-Master's category, the University of
Wisconsin-Platteville remains ranked in the second tier, while the University of
Dubuque dropped from the second tier to the third tier. Schools in the second,
third and fourth tiers are listed alphabetically, placing UW-P between No. 38
and No. 75 and UD between No. 76 and No. 108.

For its annual rankings of more than 1,400 colleges and universities, U.S. News
categorizes each school primarily by mission and, in some cases, region. Schools
are judged on up to 16 indicators of academic excellence, including academic
reputation, retention and graduation, faculty resources, financial resources and
alumni giving.

Clarke and Loras both dropped a few spots from last year's rankings, when Clarke
was 18th and Loras was 25th, though last year Loras was in a different category.

"I think the important thing is we're still in that top tier, so we feel very
good about that," said Clarke President Sister Catherine Dunn. "This is the 10th
time in 10 years that we've been in that top tier. It's a national recognition
of quality if you're in the top tier."

After being moved last year into the Midwest Universities-Master's category,
Loras officials petitioned to be moved back into the Midwest Comprehensive
Colleges-Bachelor's category this year, said Jim Collins, senior vice president
for institutional advancement.

"It may cause some confusion, but we think it's a better representation of the
type of institutions that we generally compare ourselves with," he said. "We're
thrilled to have a tier one ranking again. I think the city of Dubuque should be
thrilled about the number of quality institutions that get recognized."

Though college officials are happy to get high marks in the annual list and
schools sometimes use it in marketing efforts, area administrators said they
don't think the rankings affect enrollment numbers. Collins said a recent
national survey found less than 20 percent of college-bound students even look
at the rankings.

"The rankings are a big deal from the standpoint of when you get in tier one,
you're doing a great job," he said. "But we're also not fooled into thinking
that when you have a good ranking it's going to impact enrollment or other
things."

Dick Schumacher, director of admissions at UW-P, said he is unsure how much
importance the rankings have.

"We don't use it a lot because people never ask about it," he said.

And some of the indicators used for the rankings are "really subjective,"
Schumacher said.

"There's nothing scientific, I don't think, about it," he said.

As for UD, the school is indifferent to its ranking.

"It's not something we are upset about and pleased with one way or the other,"
said Peter Smith, vice president for enrollment management and university
relations. "We've been surprised and pleased last year and the previous year.
The way the rankings are rated and worked, one can move between tiers. We think
it is a good tool for internal use."

The magazine chose Princeton University as the top university in the country;
Harvard and Yale tied for second place. The University of Wisconsin-Madison tied
for 32nd place, while the University of Illinois tied for 38th place. Iowa State
University and the University of Iowa are listed alphabetically in the second
tier of national universities, between No. 52 and No. 129.

Valparaiso University in Indiana ranked first among Midwest
Universities-Master's, a category U.S. News defines as institutions that provide
a full range of undergraduate- and master's-level programs and few, if any,
doctoral programs.

St. Mary's College in Indiana was first among Midwest Comprehensive Colleges
-Bachelor's, a category the magazine defines as institutions that focus on
undergraduate education and offer a range of degree programs in the liberal
arts, which account for fewer than half of their bachelor's degrees, and in
professional fields such as business, nursing and education.


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: mug: Schmacher, Smith, Dunn, Collins

                  Copyright 2002 Woodward Communications, Inc.

                              391 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 19, 2012 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Correcting a flaw in college rankings doesn't correct a flawed methodology

BYLINE: - Valerie Strauss

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 523 words

A flawed system

Let us count the flaws in the saga involving George Washington University's
sudden "delisting" from the unfortunately influential U.S. News & World Report
college rankings.

(  My 19-year-old daughter attends GWU, so you might think I would have a
personal interest in this as well as a professional one. I don't. I am as
unimpressed with rankings as a parent as I am as a journalist.)

Here's what happened: The university, which this year was in a three-way tie for
51st place in the National Universities category (with Boston and Tulane
universities), revealed that it had been giving the magazine inaccurate data on
the percentage of freshmen who had graduated in the top 10 percent of their high
school classes.

The school originally reported that the figure for last year was 78 percent, but
in its mea culpa said it was actually 58 percent. As it turns out, 58 percent
isn't really 58 percent; it is 58 percent of the 38 percent of students for whom
class-ranking data were available. And there's the rub: Many - probably a
majority of - high schools don't give class rankings, raising questions about
the significance of this data point and about whether other colleges and
universities have accurately reported on this. Montgomery and Fairfax county
schools don't, for example. Neither do many of the country's most prestigious
private schools.

If this sounds cockamamie, that's because it is.

Of course, the magazine's methodology overall gives rise to skepticism about the
worth of the entire ranking enterprise. The U.S. News college rankings have
taken on a life of their own, becoming all important to families desperately
looking for information about higher education and to colleges and universities
that bend over backwards to get a higher ranking to attract students.

People on both sides ignore the fact that the rankings are tremendously flawed.
The largest factor in this supposedly objective statistical analysis - worth
22.5 percent for National Universities - is the combined subjective assessment
of a school's reputation by academics from rival institutions and by high school
college admissions counselors.

There are a lot of issues with other data points used in the analysis, too, but
the biggest issue about determining quality is captured in this bromide: "Not
everything that counts can be counted, and not everything that can be counted
counts." (Albert Einstein is often said to be the author, but he probably
wasn't.)

So what we have is flawed information in a flawed data category in a flawed
overall methodology for college rankings that shouldn't matter to anyone, but
do. Correcting a flawed statistic that is used in a flawed methodology doesn't
correct that flawed methodology.

Some George Washington students are upset that their school is now unranked, as
if suddenly something has materially changed at the school. Nothing has. It just
may be that going unranked for 10 months could be a useful lesson. Classes will
still be taught, degrees will be awarded, research will be conducted,
applications will be received.

Life without college rankings. Where's the flaw in that?

- Valerie Strauss

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 23, 2013 Friday
                                Regional Edition

BYLINE: Stephen Stromberg

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 478 words

Rankling college rankings

Government invests a lot of money in   higher education every year - $150
billion in federal student financial aid alone, plus $70 billion from states.
So, President Obama proposed   Thursday,   government should make sure that
taxpayers are getting good value for their money   instead of paying schools
based simply on how many needy students they enroll.

It's a good idea. Except . . . well, I'll let the president explain why this
could be pretty hard.

"Today, I'm directing Arne Duncan, our secretary of education, to lead an effort
to develop a new rating system for America's colleges before the 2015 college
year. . . . I think we should rate colleges based on opportunity. Are they
helping students from all kinds of backgrounds succeed? And on outcomes, on
their value to students and parents.

"So that means metrics like: How much debt does the average student leave with?
How easy it is  to pay off? How many students graduate on time? How well do
those graduates do in the workforce? Because the answers will help parents and
students figure out how much value a college truly offers."

Once the rankings have been in place for a while, Obama continued, Congress
should tie student aid funding to how well colleges and universities score.

The concept is worthwhile. But Ezra Klein rightly points out that some of the
criteria Obama mentioned might give certain schools an advantage for the wrong
reasons - rewarding those that, say, pump out high-earning graduates rather than
teachers. In fact, as Obama indicated, the problem is bigger: Colleges might try
to manipulate the system.

"Right now," the president said, "private rankings like U.S. News and World
Report puts out each year . . . encourage a lot of colleges to focus on ways to
- how do we game the numbers."

Obama probably meant to argue that Education Department rankings would
counterbalance some of the perverse incentives that the U.S. News rankings
provide schools. But he accidentally made a broader point about the whole
college-rankings enterprise: It's hard not to introduce perverse incentives into
the system, particularly when a lot of cash is on the line. It would make a lot
of sense if the government starts using, for example, graduation rates as a key
metric of college success. But that would also encourage colleges to lower
standards in ways that are hard to quantify in a ranking scheme.

James Kvaal, deputy director of the president's Domestic Policy Council, assured
reporters, "We're going to ask Secretary Duncan to lead the conversations with
the community and talk about what data is available and what data might be
desirable in the course of developing these ratings."

But the real desirability of the president's promising initiative won't be clear
until Duncan figures out exactly which metrics he wants to use to judge schools.

- Stephen Stromberg

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2013 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                            March 17, 1998, Tuesday,

YARMOUTH TO DROP STUDENT RANKINGS;
 THE SCHOOL DISTRICT DECIDES THE LONGSTANDING PRACTICE MAY HURT MORE STUDENTS
THAN IT HELPS.

BYLINE: Peter Pochna Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & STATE, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 507 words

DATELINE: YARMOUTH


Yarmouth High School has joined a small but growing group of schools that have
eliminated class rankings out of concern that colleges judge students as
statistics rather than complex human beings.

The school district found that the longstanding practice of ranking all students
by their cumulative grade-point averages may hurt more students than it helps.
It follows the example of Falmouth, which eliminated class rankings in 1996.

The School Committee ended the ranking system last week when it accepted the
recommendation of a committee of students, teachers, parents and administrators
who studied the issue for six months.

The school will now rank only the valedictorian and salutatorian - the top two
students in each class. Students who rank in the top 10 percent of the class
will receive a letter of recognition that they may include in their college
applications.

Pam Adams, chairwoman of the School Committee, said the new system will
''humanize the process.''

''It provides a system of fairness and recognition of a student as a person and
not a number,'' Adams said.

The Yarmouth study concluded that a ranking ''poorly represents the whole
student.'' It found instances where a slight difference in grades pushed a
student's ranking down and hurt that student's chances of getting into college.

For example, in 1996, only seven-tenths of a point separated the seventh-ranked
student from the 17th-ranked student.

Mark Hempstead, a junior at Yarmouth High School, said he doesn't want his
achievements judged on the basis of a couple of numbers such as his rank and his
Scholastic Aptitude Test scores.

''A lot of colleges, they just take these two numbers and make a cut,''
Hempstead said. ''I'm really against that.''

While most private schools, including Waynflete School in Portland and North
Yarmouth Academy, have long gone without class rankings, public schools have
traditionally used them.

But Deborah Jordan, director of admissions at the University of Southern Maine,
said she's seeing an increasing number of applications that do not include class
ranking.

She said that the ranking provides ''an easy way to quickly peg a student in
relation to other students,'' and that its elimination makes her job harder.

She said the lack of a ranking will not hurt a student's chance for admission.

Wylie Mitchell, dean of admissions at Bates College in Lewiston, said that
eliminating rankings could help students, as long as their schools send class
portfolios to colleges that show, for example, how many students receive A's.

Yarmouth plans to distribute such a profile, which will include information
about the grade distribution in a class.

Mitchell said that students without class rankings must take steps to
personalize their applications, such as visiting the colleges they want to
attend.

''Sometimes a rank can be very misleading,'' Mitchell said. ''But there are a
lot of places that just want to plug a number into a formula, particularly large
state universities.''

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Guy Gannett Communications, Inc.

                              394 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                            August 14, 2014 Thursday

Boulder named top college town by Best College Review

BYLINE: Mitchell Byars, Camera Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 223 words


Boulder was named the top college town in America in Best College Review's
rankings  of the top 50 college towns in the U.S.

Best College Review said Boulder -- which is home to the University of Colorado
and Naropa University -- has "the perfect mix of student life and post graduate
livability, making it an easy selection as our best college town in America."

 "Boulder is known as a hip and healthy town with a hippy past and great views
of the Flatirons," the rankings says. "Boulder is one of the nation's most
celebrated towns - in rankings it regularly gets voted the best outdoor town,
the brainiest city, one of the top cities for artists, and America's Foodiest
Town."

 The ranking also cites Boulder's outdoor recreation opportunities, public
transit system and tech and science scene as reasons for the top ranking.

 "For those out of school, numerous science institutes, local artisanal
movements, and tech companies call Boulder home," the ranking said. "The most
notable employers include the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administrations,
the Geological Society of America, and the Space Science Institute."

 Ann Arbor, Michigan; Madison, Wisconsin; Ithaca, New York; and Ames, Iowa
rounded out the top five.

 Contact Camera Staff Writer Mitchell Byars at 303-473-1329,
byarsm@dailycamera.com or twitter.com/mitchellbyars.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 20, 2013 Friday

U.S. News Ranks HPU No. 1 Three Times

LENGTH: 298  words

DATELINE: High Point


High Point University has issued the following news release:

High Point University has been named No. 1 again in "America's Best Colleges,"
published annually by U.S. News & World Report. In the 2014 rankings released
today, HPU received three No. 1 rankings.

High Point University 2014 "America's Best Colleges" Rankings:

o No. 1 Best Regional College in the South (second consecutive year)

best-colleges-Up-And-Comingo No. 1 Up and Coming School in Regional Colleges in
the South (second consecutive year)

o No. 1 for Best Undergraduate Teaching in Regional Colleges in the South

"HPU students are mentored by dedicated faculty who appreciate their role as
enablers of learning," says Dr. Nido Qubein, HPU president. "We continue to
focus on planting best-colleges-Undergraduate Teachingseeds of greatness in the
minds, the hearts and the souls of our students. These rankings reflect our
career-focused outcomes that students and parents appreciate."

The university has steadily moved up in national rankings as it continues to
grow. In 2005, at the start of Qubein's tenure, U.S. News ranked HPU No. 17
among Regional Colleges in the South.

In addition to being named No. 1 three times in "America's Best Colleges," HPU
was named this year as the No. 4 private school in NC for the best return on
investment. It also is named as a 2013-14 College of Distinction.

The U.S. News rankings evaluate the top 1,800 accredited four-year schools in
the country based on several key measures of quality including peer assessment,
graduation and retention rates, undergraduate academic reputation, faculty
resources, experiential learning opportunities and more. The list provides the
most in-depth and complete rankings in higher education.

For more information please visit: http://www.highpoint.edu.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 17, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Florida Colleges Suffer Drop In U.S. News Ratings

BYLINE: ADAM EMERSON, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 451 words


THEY INCLUDE UF, FSU, NEW COLLEGE

By ADAM EMERSON

The Tampa Tribune

Notable Florida schools suffered a drop in rankings in the popular U.S. News and
World Report best colleges list set to be released today.

The University of Florida and Florida State University each dropped two spots
among the nation's best universities to 49th and 112th respectively.

And New College of Florida, located in Sarasota, fell off its top perch as the
nation's best public liberal arts college to No. 4 in its field.

A percentage point off in surveyed categories such as graduation rates and
student-faculty ratio can send a college down a slide in the rankings. UF, for
instance, lost points when it accepted fewer freshmen who were in the top 10
percent of their high school class.

The magazine and the schools that enjoy spots at the top say the annual rankings
help parents and their college-bound children make a critical financial
decision. Critics say they lump colleges with different missions together to
create a beauty pageant that has tarnished higher education.

Those two viewpoints surfaced in Florida in June. When a coalition of liberal
arts schools split on boycotting the rankings, Eckerd College in St. Petersburg
agreed to withhold information from the magazine in the next round of surveys,
while Rollins College in Winter Park voted to keep cooperating.

Eckerd College retained its spot in the third of four "tiers" of liberal arts
colleges, those schools ranked 126 through 184, respectively, out of 248 total;
schools in the bottom two tiers are grouped alphabetically. Rollins kept its No.
1 spot in the south's Best Master's Universities. With its refusal to
participate in the survey, Eckerd leaders expect a ranking drop next year.

(CHART) HOW THEY RANK

Here are results for some Florida colleges. The first number is the latest
ranking, and the number in parentheses is last years'.

Best National Universities

49th, University of Florida (47th)

112th, Florida State University (110th)

Third tier, University of South Florida (third tier)

Third tier, University of Central Florida (fourth tier)

Best Liberal Arts Colleges

Third tier, Eckerd College (third tier)

Top Five Public Liberal Arts Colleges

4th, New College of Florida (1st)

Best Master's Universities,

Southern Region

1st, Rollins College (1st)

22nd, University of Tampa (36th)

Best Baccalaureate Colleges,

Southern Region

5th, Florida Southern College in Lakeland (8th)

Best Business Programs

27th, University of Florida, Warrington College of Business Administration
(29th)

Reporter Adam Emerson can be reached at (813) 259-8285 or aemerson@tampatrib.com

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 15, 2017 Friday

SUNY Cortland Rises in Annual "Best Colleges" National Survey

LENGTH: 391  words



 New York: State University of New York College at Cortland has issued the
following news release:
Strengthened by one of the highest graduation rates in the SUNY system, SUNY
Cortland this year continued to rise in U.S. News & World Report's annual
ranking of the "Best Colleges" in the nation.


SUNY Cortland was ranked 48th in the news organization's survey of what it
considers the best regional universities in the Northeast, according to results
released today by U.S. News & World Report.
That puts Cortland among the top 25 percent of all four-year, higher education
institutions in the highly competitive region, which includes 287 schools across
New York, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Vermont, New Hampshire, Rhode Island,
Delaware, Maine, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Washington, D.C.
"We are grateful for the acknowledgement, but we are not surprised; SUNY
Cortland is a very strong academic institution," College President Erik J.
Bitterbaum said. "Positive rankings like this are nice, but prospective students
and parents need to research schools themselves and visit campuses to find the
right fit."
"Best Colleges 2018" marks a 13-place improvement for SUNY Cortland, which
placed 61st in last year's rankings and was 74th in "Best Colleges 2016."
Standing out among the many factors used to determine the ranking was the
College's 75-percent, six-year graduation rate; its highest in three decades. Of
the SUNY comprehensive colleges that made the U.S. News & World Report rankings,
only one -- SUNY Geneseo --  had a better graduation rate.
"Each of SUNY's 64 colleges and universities help our students find their
purpose and their passion. Whether it's in research, education, outreach, or
engagement, our colleges and universities strive to achieve excellence in
everything they do," said SUNY Chancellor Kristina M. Johnson. "We are thrilled
that so many of our SUNY campuses have again received favorable rankings by U.S.
News & World Report. While we appreciate that rankings are one indication of
quality, it does help demonstrate that SUNY is one of the best national
education systems. Congratulations to each of the SUNY campuses recognized by
the 2018 U.S. News and World Report rankings."

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                           February 8, 2012 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

COLLEGE NOT ALONE IN RANKINGS MISCHIEF

SECTION: THE CAP TIMES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 304 words


In a column at www.captimes.com, Jane S. Shaw, president of the John W. Pope
Center for Higher Education Policy, discusses Claremont McKenna College's
admission that it submitted false SAT scores for freshmen to U.S. News & World
Report in an effort to inflate its ranking:

The college's president acknowledged that the elite school - No. 9 on the U.S.
News list of best colleges - had submitted the inflated averages for six years.
A senior admissions official resigned after taking responsibility.

At first glance, the increases - 10 to 20 points - seemed relatively small.
Could a boost of 10 to 20 points on the average SAT scores make a difference in
the ranking of a college? Yes.

SAT scores represent 7.5 percent of the U.S. News ranking. Consistently high SAT
scores also influence the reputation of the school, and reputational surveys
have a 22.5 percent weight in the total ranking.

Being in the top 10 would give a school an enormous public relations boost. And
colleges are driven by public relations.

Gaming the U.S. News system is common. Manipulation made news in 2009, when, at
an academic meeting, a Clemson University staff member openly described ways the
school had tried to boost its ranking. The university had risen from 38th to
22nd in its U.S. News category over seven years.

What have we learned? Be skeptical about rankings.

The fact that this duplicity went on for six years at Claremont McKenna makes
one wonder if officials at other schools may be doing the same thing.

But far more important than giving too much credence to rankings, the public
should be more skeptical about our system of higher education. Those highly
respected institutions are composed of very human people. When the prestige of
their institutions is on the line, those people can act in ways that are
embarrassing and morally wrong.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                             June 21, 2007 Thursday

Colleges dropping out of magazine's survey

BYLINE: Alan Finder - The New York Times Media Group

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: ANNAPOLIS, Maryland


The presidents of dozens of liberal arts colleges in the United States have
decided to stop participating in the annual college rankings by U.S. News &
World Report.

The decision was announced Tuesday after the annual meeting of the Annapolis
Group, a loose association of liberal arts colleges. After two days of private
meetings here, the organization released a statement saying that a majority of
the 80 presidents attending had ''expressed their intent not to participate in
the annual U.S. News survey.''

The commitment, which some college presidents said was made by a large majority
of participants, is the most significant challenge yet to the rankings, adding
colleges like Barnard, Sarah Lawrence and Kenyon to a growing rebellion against
the magazine, participants said.

U.S. News contends that it provides a valuable service to parents and students
in its yearly evaluations, which are based on factors that include graduation
and retention rates, assessments by competitors, selectivity and faculty
resources. Critics say the ranking system lacks rigor and that it has undermined
educational priorities, encouraging colleges to take steps like soliciting more
applicants and then rejecting them in order to move up the list.

''We really want to reclaim the high ground on this discussion,'' said Dr.
Katherine Will, president of Gettysburg College and the incoming president of
the Annapolis Group. ''We should be defining the conversation, not a magazine
that uses us for its business plan.'' The association did not take a formal vote
and each college will make its own decision, Will said.

Members of the Annapolis Group also decided to develop their own system for
comparing institutions. The group intends to work with other higher-education
organizations to develop a common format with comparable data.

''They will do what they will do,'' Michele Tolela Myers, president of Sarah
Lawrence College, said of U.S. News & World Report. ''We will do what we will
do. And we want to do it in a principled way.''

Brian Kelly, editor of U.S. News, said the magazine applauded any effort to
produce new data. He was also conciliatory toward the presidents who said they
would no longer cooperate with the magazine. ''If a few presidents don't want to
participate, we understand,'' he said.

Kelly said that more than 50 percent of the presidents, provosts and admission
deans who are sent the annual survey of colleges' reputations continued to fill
it out.

He left no doubt that the magazine would continue to produce its annual rankings
. ''We take our critics seriously, but we also think our ranking is valuable,''
he said.

The Annapolis Group's decision comes after an effort this spring by a dozen
college presidents, several of whom belong to the association, urging colleges
to pledge not to participate in a section of the U.S. News rankings that asks
presidents and other senior academic officers to rate the reputations of other
schools. That survey is weighed more heavily in the magazine's rankings than any
other factor.

Many presidents who favor no longer participating said they expected that the
magazine's annual rankings would be able to continue because much data on
criteria like admission and graduation rates are publicly available. Colleges
report most of that information to the U.S. Education Department.

But many presidents said it was time to disengage from the magazine. ''Why
should we do this work for them?'' said Judith Shapiro, president of Barnard
College. ''It is a way of saying, 'This is not our project.' ''

Other presidents who attended the meeting were more cautious. Anthony Marx,
president of Amherst, which is ranked second among liberal arts colleges, said
he was not ready to stop cooperating with U.S. News and wanted to continue to
discuss the issue.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                              April 3, 2017 Monday

Education rankings throw up surprises

BYLINE: Our Special Correspondent

LENGTH: 805  words


New Delhi, April 3: The Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, topped among
educational institutions in the national rankings released today and Jadavpur
University came fifth among universities but a little-known Delhi-based college
beat several reputable ones in one of the surprises the list threw up.

Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma (ARSD) College under Delhi University (DU) stood fifth
among colleges in the annual rankings, ahead of Calcutta's St. Xavier's College
and Delhi's Lady Shri Ram College.

Another surprise was that institutions like St. Stephen's, Delhi School of
Economics and Hindu College - all under Delhi University - did not take part in
the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) exercise conducted by the
National Board of Accreditation, a wing of the human resource development
ministry.

This was the NIRF's second edition but the first time that colleges had been
ranked. The other new head in the latest rankings - the relevant year was 2016 -
was the overall category of university-level institutions.

"This ranking will guide parents and students to choose institutions," HRD
minister Prakash Javadekar said. "Besides, we will give more funds to the high
ranking institutions to create an atmosphere of competition for quality
improvement."

ARSD College chairman Pawan Jaggi said the co-ed institution, set up by the Shri
Sanatan Dharma Sabha in 1959, had been quietly working on its vision to provide
quality education and teaching. "We have reputable faculty members who work for
18 hours in the college. We have been quietly working on the vision of the
Sanatan Dharma Sabha to make the college a world-class institution."

The admission cut-offs for the college have been close to those of some of DU's
most sought after colleges. For example, the second cut-off list released by DU
for admission in 2016 had put the cut-off for BA Economics honours in ARSD at
96.5 per cent, while it was 97.25 in Miranda House and 97.75 in Hindu College.

Miranda House, Delhi, ranked top among colleges, followed by Loyola, Chennai,
and Shri Ram College of Commerce, Delhi. St. Xavier's College, Calcutta, ranked
sixth and Lady Shri Ram College, Delhi, seventh.

A senior HRD ministry official said all universities and colleges were advised
to participate but nearly a dozen reputable DU colleges did not send details.
They include Ramjas, Kirorimal, Hansraj, Khalsa and Jesus and Mary, apart from
St. Stephen's and the Delhi School of Economics.

Among states, Tamil Nadu emerged as the address for the most number of top-
ranking institutions. Twenty university-level institutions from the state found
place in the overall top-hundred category - state-run and private institutions
with more than a thousand students each and centrally funded institutions.

Seven university-level institutions from Bengal figured among the top 100 in the
overall ranking. Jadavpur University ranked 12th, ahead of the University of
Hyderabad (14) and DU (15).

Some academics, who didn't want to be named, hinted it was "interesting" that
Jadavpur, which stood fifth among varsities, had ranked ahead of both Hyderabad
university, which received the Visitor's Award for Best University last year
from President Pranab Mukherjee, and DU.

IISc Bangalore emerged the best in the overall category as well as in the
separate category of top universities. Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi,
ranked sixth in the overall category. It ranked second among universities, up
one place from its position the previous year.

Javadekar said Jadavpur University and JNU had performed well because of their
research and teaching. "Jadavpur and JNU did not get ranking for raising
slogans, or for confining the vice-chancellor. This is for their good research
work."

The HRD ministry also brought out separate lists for top 100 engineering,
management and pharmacy institutions. IIT Madras ranked first among engineering
institutions and Jadavpur University ranked ninth.

Four university-level institutions from Odisha figured among the top-ranked
institutions in the country. They are Shiksha O' Anusandhan, a private deemed
university (33), IIT Bhubaneswar (46), NIT Rourkela (66), and KIIT, a private
deemed university (79).

The Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad, ranked 53 while IIT Patna was the lone
institute from Bihar to find a place among the top 100 institutions. There was
none from Chhattisgarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Goa, Manipur, Nagaland, Sikkim,
Arunachal Pradesh and Tripura among the top 100 in the overall category.

In management, IIM Ahmedabad emerged the best followed by IIM Bangalore and IIM
Calcutta. Jamia Hamdard was ranked the best pharmacy institution in the country.

Altogether 232 universities, 1,007 engineering institutions, 542 management
institutions, 596 general colleges and 316 pharmacy institutions took part in
the ranking exercise.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2017 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

UPenn named nation's best college for 2015;
Lower student loan defaults help ranking

BYLINE: McKenna Grant, USA TODAY College

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 358 words


Research universities are coming in hot for 2015.

The 2015 rankings for the best colleges nationwide, based on undergraduate
programs, were released Friday by College Factual, a data-driven college choice
resource.

The takeaway? Research institutions fill the top 10 seats, and University of
Pennsylvania-Philadelphia leads the pack.

"These rankings are based on a pure and distinct focus on data," says Bill
Phelan, co-founder and CEO of College Factual, which aims to help students make
better career and college decisions.

The rankings include 1,394 four-year universities nationwide. They focus more
heavily on outcomes, such as starting salary and student loan default rates,
rather than inputs, such as acceptance rates.

"We also don't stop at the top 10 or 100 like other rankings ... the lower 50%
of schools is just as important as the top," says Josh McWilliam, CF vice
president.

The top three universities in College Factual's survey:

UPenn ranks first, with a 6-to-1 student-to-faculty ratio and a "high earnings
boost" -- meaning grads of particular majors overall earn more than those of the
same major nationwide. UPenn snagged Harvard's first-place ranking for 2014.

"The biggest factor shift was student loan default rates. ... Harvard went down
32 spots on its default rate ranking, and UPenn went up 72 spots," says
McWilliam.

Yale ranks second. The very selective Ivy in New Haven, Conn., boasts high
graduation rates of 96.2% and, McWilliam says, a reasonable price tag compared
with schools of similar quality.

"We look at what you are likely to pay and match that to the quality of the
school to determine the best bang for your buck," McWilliam  says.

Duke in Durham, N.C., claims the No. 3 spot, with its diverse student body and
quality of academics -- 94.3% of teachers are full time.

Harvard and MIT hold spots four and five. Brown, Stanford, Princeton, Dartmouth
and University of Notre Dame make up sixth through 10th places.

For high school students -- and their parents -- who are considering colleges,
ignoring rankings is a "really expensive experiment," Phelan says. "We want to
help these students find their future faster."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Matt Rourke, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                              June 14, 2009 Sunday
                                  ALL EDITION

PUTTING CLASS RANK TO THE TEST;
RANKING HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS BY GPA IS COMING UNDER INCREASING CRITICISM. BUT
WISCONSIN SCHOOLS SHOULD LOOK BEFORE THEY LEAP INTO THE TREND TO ELIMINATE CLASS
RANKS.

SECTION: SUNDAY OPINION; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 491 words


In a 2006 book "The Overachievers: The Secret Lives of Driven Kids," author
Alexandra Robbins was savage in her criticism of something that almost everyone
who ever attended high school knows well - class rank by grade point average.

"Class rank encourages cutthroat competition, cheating and choosing classes
based on GPA weight rather than on interests, not to mention directly pitting
students against one another," she wrote.

Robbins expressed some of the motivation behind a national push to eliminate the
ranking of students by GPA.

The push is making headway. According to the National Association for College
Admission Counseling, more than half of all high schools no longer report
students' class rank.

As the State Journal reported June 4, more Madison area school districts are
considering joining the trend.

The interest in re-evaluating class rankings deserves encouragement. The
schools' goal should be to fairly measure student achievement. Where class ranks
are failing to meet that goal, they should be modified or replaced.

Some school districts report that more of their students are gaining entry into
their first-choice colleges after the schools dropped class ranking. Some
schools that weight GPAs to account for advanced placement courses report that
dropping class ranks helped to unravel complexities and distortions of weighted
and unweighted GPAs and their impact on class rank and student course choices.

Nonetheless, school districts should approach the elimination of class ranks
with a healthy skepticism and pointed questions, including:

* What, exactly, is the problem with class rankings in our district?

Some reasons to drop class rankings make sense. Others don't. For example,
schools should beware of arguments that class rank inflicts too much competitive
stress on students. While competitive stress can be harmful when it produces
cheating and distorts course selections, it is beneficial when it challenges
students to be the best they can be.

* If not class rankings, what?

If schools drop class rankings, they still have a responsibility to measure
student achievement in a way that is useful to colleges, parents and the
students themselves. Alternatives to class rank exist, but they have
shortcomings too.

* What will our students tell college admissions offices?

Colleges like to use class rank in admissions decisions because it is a good
predictor of college success. Even when a school does not keep a class rank
record, colleges may ask for grade point average distributions, from which
admissions staff can calculate a class rank. Consequently, class ranks will
exist whether a school publishes them or not.

* Is this fuss much ado about not much?

The controversy over class rank tends to blow the problems of high-achieving
students out of proportion with the more urgent problems of low achievers. Most
schools would be smart to devote more time and resources to turning low
achievers into high achievers.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: iStockphoto

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            October 9, 2008 Thursday

Trinity and UCD rise in top university rankings

BYLINE: SEÁN FLYNN, Education Editor

SECTION: IRELAND; Other Stories; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 536 words


THE WORLD ranking of both Trinity College Dublin and UCD has improved
dramatically, according to the most prestigious international review.

The  TimesHigher Education/QS World University Rankings, published today, show
Trinity breaking into the top 50, ranked at 49 - up from 53.

TCD becomes the first Irish third-level institution to make it into the elite
top-50 group.

The rankings also deliver very good news for UCD, now ranked 108 worldwide, up
from 177 last year.

The rankings represent a boost for Trinity provost, Dr John Hegarty, and UCD
president, Dr Hugh Brady, who have pushed through contentious management
reforms.

Trinity College is a top-ranking university in all five discipline categories:
Arts and Humanities (32), Social Sciences (59), Natural Sciences (66), Life
Sciences and Biomedicine (97), Engineering and IT (135).

Last night, Martin Ince, contributing editor of the  Times Higher Education
Supplement, said UCD's surge in the ranking was largely based on very positive
feedback from employers about the quality of its graduates.

He said UCD was also increasingly seen as a university with the capacity to
attract international academic staff and students.

UCD and Trinity are the only Irish third-level colleges in the top 200. Queen's
University Belfast is ranked just outside the top 200.

Last night, Dr Hegarty said Trinity's success had "been achieved in the context
of a very competitive international environment against much better resourced
world leading universities . . .

The fact that Trinity is ranked so highly, relative to the resources available,
is a reflection of the very high calibre of our students, the excellence of our
research and the strong culture amongst our academic, administrative and support
staff to achieve and perform beyond the norm.

"The challenge will be to sustain our top-ranking position and the quality for
which we are renowned with increasingly deficient levels of funding."

For the purpose of compiling the rankings, 5,100 academics and almost 1,500
employers were surveyed. Colleges are ranked on the basis of data gathered on

Peer Academic Review

Recruiter Review

International Faculty Ratio

International Student Ratio

Student Faculty Ratio

Citations per Faculty

Britain and the US continue to dominate among the top 10 universities.

Harvard retains its ranking as the top university in the world with Yale moving
ahead of Cambridge for the second spot.

Oxford drops to fourth, while Princeton drops out of the top 10, replaced by the
only new entrant, Columbia University.

In the top 100 universities, there are 43 in North America, 36 in Europe and 13
in Asia.

World's leading universities 2008

1:HARVARD, United States

2:YALE University, United States

3:University of CAMBRIDGE, United Kingdom

4:University of OXFORD, United Kingdom

5:CALIFORNIA Institute of Technology (Caltech), United States

6:IMPERIAL College London, United Kingdom

7:UCL (University College London), United Kingdom

8:University of CHICAGO, United States

9:MASSACHUSETTS Institute of Technology (MIT), United States

10:COLUMBIA University, United States

Also

49:TRINITY College Dublin, Ireland

108:University College Dublin, Ireland

Source:TimesHigher Education - QS World University Rankings 2008

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            August 24, 2013 Saturday

Rankling college rankings

BYLINE: By Xxxxxx The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 447 words


By Stephen Stromberg

The Washington Post

Government invests a lot of money in higher education every year: $150 billion
in federal student financial aid alone, plus $70 billion from states. So,
President Obama proposed Thursday, government should make sure that taxpayers
are getting good value for their money instead of paying schools based simply on
how many needy students they enroll.

It's a good idea. Except ... well, I'll let the president explain why this could
be pretty hard.

"Today, I'm directing Arne Duncan, our secretary of education, to lead an effort
to develop a new rating system for America's colleges before the 2015 college
year. ... I think we should rate colleges based on opportunity. Are they helping
students from all kinds of backgrounds succeed? And on outcomes, on their value
to students and parents.

"So that means metrics like: How much debt does the average student leave with?
How easy it is to pay off? How many students graduate on time? How well do those
graduates do in the workforce? Because the answers will help parents and
students figure out how much value a college truly offers."

Once the rankings have been in place for a while, Obama continued, Congress
should tie student aid funding to how well colleges and universities score.

The concept is worthwhile. But Washington Post columnist Ezra Klein rightly
points out that some of the criteria Obama mentioned might give certain schools
an advantage for the wrong reasons -- rewarding those that, say, pump out
high-earning graduates rather than teachers. In fact, as Obama indicated, the
problem is bigger: Colleges might try to manipulate the system.

"Right now," the president said, "private rankings like U.S. News and World
Report puts out each year ... encourage a lot of colleges to focus on ways to,
how do we game the numbers."

Obama probably meant to argue that Education Department rankings would
counterbalance some of the perverse incentives that the U.S. News rankings
provide schools. But he accidentally made a broader point about the whole
college-rankings enterprise: It's hard not to introduce perverse incentives into
the system, particularly when a lot of cash is on the line.

It would make a lot of sense if the government starts using, for example,
graduation rates as a key metric of college success. But that would also
encourage colleges to lower standards in ways that are hard to quantify in a
ranking scheme.

James Kvaal, deputy director of the Domestic Policy Council,said Duncan would
look at what data is available and might be used in the ratings.

But the desirability of the initiative won't be clear until Duncan identifies
the metrics he will use to judge schools.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                              April 3, 2017 Monday

NIRF ranking 2017: JNU, Jadavpur got top rank not for Afzal Guru slogans but for
good research, says Javadekar

BYLINE: Neeti Nigam

LENGTH: 286  words


Taking a jibe at protesters at the Jawaharlal Nehru University and Jadavpur
University, Union Human Resource Development (HRD) Minister Prakash Javadekar on
Monday said these institutions got top positions in the India Ranking Report
2017 not because of Afzal Guru slogans but for the good research work done by
the students.

Releasing the rankings, Javadekar said, "JNU and Jadavpur University have done
some good work especially in the field of science and therefore bagged top
positions."

The HRD Minister released the India Rankings 2017 of National Institutional
Ranking Framework in which JNU has gained second position (last year it was at
number) while Jadavpur University has entered the top 10 list, holding number
five position in the rankings.

This year too, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru has retained the top
position in the best university category and the newly introduced overall
educational institutes in India category.

Besides, another category was introduced this year - best colleges in India.
University of Delhi dominates the list with six of its colleges under top 10
category. Miranda House was ranked number 1 college. "Only those colleges have
got position that have agreed to be part of it. St Stephens, Hindu College and
other such colleges have not participated this year," Prakash Javadekar said.

Unlike last year, this time the ranking was released under five broad categories
- overall, colleges, universities, management, pharmacy and engineering.

In engineering, IIT has grabbed the top seven slots with IIT Madras at number
one position for the second time while IIM Ahmedabad has taken the first
position in the management category, leaving IIM Bangalore at number 2 position.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2017 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                          September 22, 2016 Thursday

Data blunder sees TCD fall out of rankings

BYLINE: Carl O'Brien

SECTION: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 247 words


Trinity College Dublin has been omitted from one of the world's most influential
university rankings after academics realised they supplied the agency with
incorrect data.

The error - spotted when the university tumbled down the Times Higher Education
world rankings - is likely to have resulted in the college receiving a lower
ranking both this year and last. TCD is set to feature in a revised version of
the rankings which is likely to be issued later this year.

 Sliding down

Ireland's top universities have been sliding down international rankings in
recent years and the latest figures released last night contained more mixed
news for the sector.

Ireland now has no university in the top-200 rankings for the first time after
UCD dropped out of the top-tier. The college slipped from 176th place into the
201-250 band.

It now appears alongside the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland and National
University of Ireland, Galway, both of which gained ground from their rankings
in the 250-300 band last year.

Phil Baty, editor of the university rankings, said the fact that Ireland's best
universities were struggling was bad news for the country and that funding cuts
were to blame. "Ireland is one of the lowest investors in higher education among
all OECD countries and you simply cannot sustain world-class universities on the
cheap," he said.

The Irish Universities Association said the latest figures show the need for an
urgent injection of funds in the upcoming budget.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 20, 2015 Tuesday

New York: Canisius Gets High Marks in College Rankings

LENGTH: 660  words

DATELINE: Albany


Canisius College, The State of New York has issued the following news release:

Several college rankings are out and Canisius has received high marks.  Canisius
earned the 27th spot in the top tier of U.S. News and World Report's 2015
rankings of America's Best Regional Universities - North for the third
consecutive year.  U.S. News named 135 universities in this category.

          The annual rankings are one resource that students and parents use to
evaluate their college choices.  The results are based on a proprietary
methodology of statistics for 16 indicators of academic excellence.  Each
indicator is assigned a weight and expressed as a percentage.  Colleges are then
ranked based on their composite scores.  The categories in which schools are
listed are based on the classifications created by the Carnegie Foundation for
the Advancement of Teaching.

          "It is an honor to be consistently ranked among the top regional
universities in the North," said Richard A. Wall, PhD, vice president for
academic affairs. "Our placement is a result of the expertise of our faculty and
rich academic programs that lead Canisius students to successful careers that
contribute to the betterment of society and their professions."

          U.S .News also ranked Canisius eighth in the 2015 "Great Schools,
Great Prices" listing among regional universities in the North. This is the
third consecutive year Canisius has been in the top 10 in this category.

          U.S. News named only 15 regional universities in the North to its
"best value" list. U.S. News classifies regional universities as those that
provide a full range of undergraduate majors and master's programs, and tends to
draw students most heavily from surrounding states.  The methodology for the
annual ranking looks at three variables:  The ratio of academic quality to
price, need-based aid and the average discount.

          U.S. News also ranked Canisius among the top institutes of higher
education for military veterans.  Canisius earned the seventh spot among 49
regional universities in the North on the Best Colleges for Veterans ranking for
2015. This is the second year Canisius has ranked in the top 10 on this list.

          The rankings recognize colleges and universities that participate in
federal initiatives designed to help veterans and active service members apply,
pay for and complete their degrees.  Canisius instituted an Office of Veterans
Services in March 2011 to meet the needs of a growing veteran student
population, which has more than doubled since 2007. "Canisius is proud to be
able to provide our veterans with excellent graduate and undergraduate options
that are flexible, affordable and meet their educational goals," said Wall.

          To be considered for U.S. News & World Report's Best Colleges for
Veterans ranking, schools had to be certified for the GI Bill, participate in
the Yellow Ribbon Program and be members of the Servicemembers Opportunity
Colleges (SOC) Consortium, a group that works to simplify credit transfers for
veterans.

          In additional rankings, Canisius was named a 2015 "College of
Distinction" in the Colleges of Distinction guidebook for the third consecutive
year. The annual publication recognizes higher education institutions,
nationwide, that excel at four distinctions: An engaged student body, great
teaching, a vibrant campus community, and successful outcomes

          The Colleges of Distinction guidebook recognized Canisius for its
small class sizes, exciting academic programs, strong faculty interaction,
innovative learning experiences, and for providing opportunities to students for
personal development.

          Forbes named Canisius to its list of 2015 Top Colleges.  This ranking
measures student satisfaction, post graduate success, graduation rates and
academic success.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.coma

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                          September 26, 2013 Thursday

Claremont Colleges ranked well in U.S. News & World Report rankings

BYLINE: Wes Woods

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 710 words


CLAREMONT >> The U.S. News & World Report 2014 Best Colleges list was recently
published and the Claremont Colleges were well represented.

Under the category of Best Liberal Arts College, Pomona College ranked No. 4,
Claremont McKenna College was No. 9 and Harvey Mudd College ended up No. 16.
Scripps College was No. 25 and Pitzer College finished No. 35.

Pomona provides an excellent educational experience, and we are always pleased
to have that recognized,  said Pomona College spokeswoman Cynthia Peters.  What
s really nice is that all of the undergraduate Claremont Colleges were
recognized for excellence. The Claremont Colleges are truly a unique and
wonderful educational environment.

Williams College, in Williamstown, Mass., was ranked No. 1 in the list released
on Sept. 10. Amherst College, in Amherst, Mass., was ranked No. 2 and Swarthmore
College, in Swarthmore, Penn. was No. 3.

Pomona College tied at No. 4 with Bowdoin College (in Brunswick, Maine) and
Middlebury College (in Middlebury, Vt.).

According to the U.S. News & World Report website, almost 1,800 colleges and
universities were ranked on graduation rates, class sizes, tuition, average debt
of graduates and more. Schools  eligible are ranked using 16 different factors,
according to the website. Additionally, according to the site, U.S. News updated
the 2014 methodology to better reflect college admissions and measure student
outcomes.

Scripps College was ranked No. 25 in the listing.

I am delighted that this report highlights important areas to the College, such
as academic excellence, strengthening our campus through greater economic and
ethnic diversity and keeping student debt low,  said Scripps College President
Lori Bettison-Varga on the Scripps College website.

Meanwhile, Pitzer College moved up in the rankings from the previous year.

Pitzer College is honored to be recognized with a rise of eight places in this
year s 2014 U.S. News & World Report rankings, from 43rd to 35th among the Best
National Liberal Arts Colleges,  said Pitzer College spokeswoman Anna Chang in
an email.

Pitzer was founded 50 years ago with the mission of providing the most
innovative academic programs in higher education. We have continued building
upon that legacy as we launched the country s first secular studies program and
the Robert Redford Conservancy for Southern California Sustainability this past
academic year. Additionally, Pitzer is committed to providing access to quality
education; the College meets 100 percent of students  demonstrated financial
need and has successfully lowered our student indebtedness. Students around the
world are responding with more applications than ever--making Pitzer College one
of the top 10 most selective colleges in the nation.

Laura Skandera Trombley, president of Pitzer College, noted the rise in ranking
in her comments.

Pitzer College is celebrating its 50th year of academic excellence and
innovative curriculum,  Trombley said in an email.  This is a significant rise
in our ranking. As always, we are honored by the excellence and dedication of
our faculty and staff.

Claremont McKenna College, which was ranked at No. 9 after a No. 10 listing last
year, did not respond to a request for comment.

In late January 2012, Claremont McKenna officials admitted that for the past six
years it submitted exaggerated SAT scores to publications such as U.S. News &
World Report, which uses the information to rank the college.

An April 17, 2012 report stated a lack of internal verification procedures
allowed the college s vice president for admission and financial aid to inflate
the scores before he resigned.

A Pomona College senior felt the ranking, while a positive, did not adequately
describe the school.

It s nice to be recognized and having our faculty and staff recognized for their
hard work,  said Pomona College senior Abeni Tinubu, 21.  I would definitely say
we re aware of it but it s not something we re intimately following. Obviously I
think Pomona is the place to be and I love it. I think that it s good to
recognize schools who are doing well but when too much emphasis is on a ranking
you start to lose what the college experience is about.

NOTE: This story has been updated with the ranking of Scripps College.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 9, 2015 Monday

Pennsylvania: Wilkes University Ranked 25th In The Nation for Economic Value By
The Economist

LENGTH: 601  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Harrisburg: Wilkes University, The State of Pennsylvania has issued the
following news release:



 Wilkes University is ranked 25th in the nation for economic value by the
international newspaper The Economist. The ranking was announced in the
publication's first-ever college rankings.





 The ranking determines a college's economic value by comparing what a school's
undergraduate alumni earn and how much they might have earned had they studied
somewhere else. In Wilkes' case, that amounts to $8,250 more in annual earnings.




 The Economist's analysis included a median salary for graduates predicted in
its model for each of the 1,275 colleges included in its rankings. The salaries
are predicted as what graduates would earn 10 years after entering college.



 Each college received an &ldquo;over/under&rdquo; score - showing if earnings
ranked above or below expected earnings if they attended another school. In
Wilkes' case, expected earnings are $41,650. The median earnings projected by
The Economist are $49,900, showing that attending Wilkes boosts the earnings
power of its graduates above expectations at +$8,250.



 Wilkes University Provost Anne Skleder said the new ranking reflects that
Wilkes is a good investment. &ldquo;Our students and their families know the
value of a Wilkes education - in outstanding teaching, in the research and
internship opportunities provided to undergraduates and the mentoring by faculty
that helps to guarantee student success. The Economist's ranking affirms that
value by showing that our students exceed expectations in their earnings. This
is especially important in light of our mission to educate students who are the
first in their family to attend college.&rdquo;



 The Economist's rankings use the U.S. Department of Education's new College
Scorecard data as a starting point. To arrive at the over/under comparison, the
newspaper used a variety of variables, including average SAT scores, sex ratio,
race breakdown, college size, socioeconomic data, whether a university was
public or private, and the mix of subjects students chose to study. The result
is a ranking that recognizes value above reputation, listing Wilkes above
institutions such as MIT and Penn State.



 Using the publication's model, Wilkes fared well based on such variables as
fields of study offered and its dedication to educating disadvantaged students -
often the first in their family to attend college. The Economist listed
pharmacy, business and engineering as among the most desirable fields of study
for predicting future success - all majors offered at Wilkes. And the number of
Pell Grant-eligible students at Wilkes - more than 30 percent of undergraduates
- indicates the University is offering opportunity to the most economically
disadvantaged students. Following graduation, many will earn above their
family's income.  Successful outcomes are affirmed by the fact that 95 percent
of Wilkes alumni have found a job or entered graduate school one year after
graduation.



 The Economist's ranking is the latest in several value rankings Wilkes
University has earned. The University was ranked highest in Pennsylvania in
MONEY magazine's &ldquo;Best Colleges for Your Money. &rdquo;  The New
York-based financial technology company Smart Asset recently ranked Wilkes among
the top schools where graduates earn the highest starting salaries.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                             October 4, 2015 Sunday

UML No. 3

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: SCHOOLS

LENGTH: 187 words


LOWELL -- UMass Lowell has been ranked No. 3 among 369 colleges nationwide in
Highest Paid Grads in Homeland Security, Law Enforcement and Firefighting by
College Factual.

College Factual uses customizable tools and outcomes-based rankings systems to
guide students through the college selection process.

A number of factors were used to determine the rankings, including how well the
institution retains and graduates students, the average loan debt per student,
the boost in expected earnings, the percentage of full-time teachers, and the
average student-loan default rate.

UML also scored well in the category of Most Popular for Computer and
Information Sciences, earning the No. 26 spot of 1,539.

College Factual's ranking system is based on a series of algorithms that include
information from the Department of Education, nationally mandated data reporting
for institutions, and Payscale.

View all of UML's rankings at www.collegefactual.com/colleges/
university-of-massachusetts-lowell /rankings/badges.

For more information about College Factual's rankings, visit
www.collegefactual.com or contact media@collegefactual.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                         September 23, 1992, Wednesday

Spelman gets magazine's top ranking among Southern liberal arts colleges

BYLINE: By John Blake STAFF WRITERpublications; colleges; blacks; spelman/
college; ranking; firsts

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Section B; Page 3

LENGTH: 242 words


The blue and white sign hanging over the stage at Spelman College's campus made
the intention clear: The Best Gets Better.

Spelman can afford to be boastful.

About 1,000 people attended a rally on campus Tuesday, where Spelman celebrated
becoming the first historically black institution to win a No. 1 spot in the
U.S. News & World Report annual college rankings.

U.S. News ranked Spelman first among Southern liberal arts colleges in its
September issue.

Morehouse College, another school in the Atlanta University Center, was ranked
10th in the same category.

Spelman President Johnnetta Cole said she was "elated" over the ranking, but the
college has more work to do.

Dr. Cole said Spelman needs to increase its endowment and construct new
buildings. "All that we have, including the national and international
visibility we have achieved, is to simply set the stage for the period
immediately ahead," Dr. Cole said.

Tuesday's celebration began at 10 a.m. and lasted well into the afternoon.
Spelman alumnae mingled with current students, sipped lemonade and listened to
jazz from a live band, the Ojeda Penn Experience.

At the rally's end, Dr. Cole joined alumnae and students in a rendition of
Spelman's school song and urged students to look ahead.

"We have a set a pace, built a tempo and achieved a momentum from which there is
no turning back," she said. "We have so very much still to do, but there is no
turning back."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH922690084

                    Copyright 1992 The Atlanta Constitution

                              412 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                           August 26, 2009 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

RANKINGS RANCOR;
UW-MADISON GETS PULLED INTO COLLEGE LISTINGS BROUHAHA

BYLINE: By Todd Finkelmeyer The Capital Times

SECTION: THE CAP TIMES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1798 words


An official at Clemson University created a firestorm earlier this summer when,
speaking candidly at an academic conference in Atlanta, she said nearly all
policies at her institution were driven by how they would help the South
Carolina school move up in the annual U.S. News & World Report rankings of
America's best colleges.

Education reporters who were at the June conference of the Association for
Institutional Research reported that Clemson faculty member Catherine Watt said
her university had doubled its tuition this decade to be able to significantly
increase faculty salaries, manipulated class sizes and even attempted to
downgrade the academic reputations of other institutions when answering peer
assessment surveys - all in an attempt to propel the university onto the list of
the top 20 public research institutions.

Though Clemson administrators denied Watt's claims and said the accusations were
"outrageous" examples of "urban legends," Inside Higher Ed (insidehighered.com)
- an online higher education news source - decided to try to "gauge the extent
to which Clemson was an anomaly or an example" when it came to giving low scores
to rival universities on U.S. News' "reputation" survey in an attempt to make
its own institution look better.

This is where Aaron Brower, UW-Madison's vice provost for teaching and learning,
got dragged into the debate.

One of the key components of the U.S. News and World Report rankings is a peer
assessment survey, which accounts for 25 percent of a school's point total. This
survey asks respondents to "rate the academic quality of undergraduate programs
at the following schools" on a five-point scale that ranges from "distinguished"
to "marginal." Survey takers are also directed to "review the entire list first,
considering each program's scholarship record, curriculum and quality of faculty
and graduates."

Because U.S. News doesn't release the results of how colleges rank their peers,
Inside Higher Ed filed open records requests for the most recent surveys
prepared by 48 public institutions in the magazine's 100 "best national
universities list" from last year. Although only 18 public universities provided
full or partial sets of records, Inside Higher Ed found that many institutions
"appeared to engage in honest, if imperfect, attempts to assess the quality of
others."

But the website also found that the peer assessment survey - which is mailed to
college presidents, provosts and deans of admission - is subject to "haphazard
responses and apathetic respondents that add to the lingering questions about
its legitimacy."

And one of those "apathetic respondents" was UW-Madison's own Brower. He ranked
259 of the 262 schools as "adequate," which is the second-lowest rating on the
scale. He gave the highest marks, "distinguished," to UW-Madison and the New
School, based in New York City, and rated Arizona State as "marginal."

Brower says he rated most schools as adequate because he wanted to respond in a
"neutral way" to a "poorly designed survey" that he believes has gained far too
much importance.

"The problem with an overall ranking of colleges is that without set criteria,
you don't know what it means," says Brower, who argues that ratings of specific
programs based on narrow criteria could, on the other hand, be "extremely
helpful" to prospective students.

Brower filled out the survey that had been mailed to Julie Underwood, at the
time UW-Madison's interim provost. Underwood said she passed this task along to
Brower because she felt he was the most qualified person within the provost's
office to fill out the survey.

UW-Madison was by no means the only institution that returned an imperfect
survey. Inside Higher Ed noted "that a survey from the University of Vermont's
president listed 'don't know' for about half of the universities. The forms
provided by Ohio State University's president and provost were virtually
identical. And the University of Florida's president, like his highly publicized
colleague at Clemson University, rated his own institution well above many of
his competitors.

Brower is not the only UW-Madison official to raise questions about the U.S.
News & World Report rankings. Former UW-Madison chancellor John Wiley told the
Cap Times one year ago that these ratings "have no meaning."

"It's like astrology," Wiley said in a candid conversation just days before
Biddy Martin took over as chancellor in September 2008. "It's amusing. And
people read it, so it's in the paper. But that's about it. The idea that there
is a best university in the country is scientific nonsense."

The annual U.S. News & World Report rankings (http://rankings.usnews.com/best-
colleges) of America's best colleges were released Aug. 20. Once again they
garnered plenty of national attention.

"Like it or not, these rankings are important because some people at least start
some of their decision-making on where to go to college from them or form
perceptions on a university because of them," says Underwood, who returned to
her post as dean of UW-Madison's School of Education in mid-July.

"That kind of publicity goes out and the world sees it," adds Underwood. "Not
just prospective students, but the citizens of the state see it, the alumni see
it. So it can modify perceptions of the university."

For those keeping score, the University of Wisconsin-Madison tied with the
University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana for 39th out of 262 national doctoral
universities in the 2010 "national universities" ranking. Some Big Ten
Conference institutions fared better, some worse: Northwestern was 12th;
Michigan 27th; Penn State 47th; Ohio State 53rd; Purdue and Minnesota tied for
61st; and Indiana, Michigan State and Iowa tied for 71st.

In the "top public schools" rankings, the University of California-Berkeley
topped the list, followed by the University of California-Los Angeles and the
University of Virginia. UW-Madison and Illinois at Champaign-Urbana tied for
ninth. UW-Madison's showing reflected a slight dip from a year ago, when it tied
for 35th among national doctoral institutions and was eighth among public
schools.

Of the other doctoral universities in Wisconsin, Marquette checked in at No. 84,
while UW-Milwaukee fell into a separate category, called Tier 4, which contains
schools not viewed as worthy of the national universities ranking.

Overall, Harvard and Princeton tied for No. 1, followed by Yale.

Current UW Provost Paul DeLuca does not put much scientific stock in the
rankings, but knows their influence is nevertheless broad.

"There is just no way that any rating system, no matter how well-devised, can
give an accurate and comprehensive picture of an institution," he says. "There
is no way to capture the many significant differences from institution to
institution. That said, we have to realize that these polls and rankings do
exist, and that people do pay attention to them and use them when considering
where they might go to school."

Others raising questions about the U.S. News rankings in recent years include
The Education Conservancy - a nonprofit organization "committed to improving
college admission processes for students, colleges and high schools." In 2007,
this group sent a letter to colleges and universities asking that they refuse to
fill out the U.S. News & World Report reputation survey and refrain from using
the rankings in promotional efforts.

"We believe these rankings are misleading and do not serve well the interests of
prospective students in finding a college or university that is well suited to
their education beyond high school," the group wrote. To date, more than 60
college presidents have signed the letter.

The Clemson affair, which was reported in the education and popular press,
didn't help. And whether you believe Clemson gamed the system or not, the South
Carolina school did shoot up in the rankings - from No. 38 among public doctoral
universities in the magazine's 2001 rankings, to No. 22 by 2008, where the
school sits again this year.

In addition to the peer assessment survey, the other factors in the U.S. News
rankings are student retention rates (20 percent); faculty resources (20
percent); student selectivity (15 percent); amount spent per student (10
percent); graduation rates (5 percent); and alumni giving (5 percent).

"There are people who spend quite a bit of time figuring out the methodology
that is used and there are some universities which spend a great deal of effort
trying to boost their rankings on a regular basis and make decisions based on
how to boost their rankings," says Underwood. "I can't speak from a campus
level, but from a school [of education] level, we make decisions based on our
educational philosophy and what we think is best for our students. We don't make
decisions based on what will boost us in the rankings."

Without a more specific list of criteria, Brower believes the survey portion of
the rankings is akin to asking "'What's a better car, a Prius or a Jaguar?'
Well, if you're talking about gas mileage, it's the Prius. But if you're talking
about luxury, it's the Jaguar."

Brower gave UW-Madison a "distinguished" rating because "I've been here for 25
years and I think we do a really excellent job in all areas and so that resulted
in that rating." He also gave the New School, where his son goes to college, a
"distinguished" rating because he admires the institution's core curriculum,
writing-intensive programming, and internship and study-abroad opportunities.

Brower rated Arizona State University as "marginal" because it had been
"clobbered with budget cuts."

Brower insists he wasn't trying to game the system to help UW-Madison in the
rankings.

"I had no reason to think that my ratings would have any impact," he said.
"UW-Madison already is high in the rankings."

DeLuca, who took over as provost at UW-Madison in mid-July, says he will
personally fill out the U.S. News peer review that gets mailed to the
university's provost office next year. "It's important to participate and to
fill it out to the best of your ability, within reason. So, yes, I'm probably
going to take a different approach next year."

Biddy Martin might be taking a different approach next year as well. She told
Inside Higher Ed that an administrator in the Office of Academic Planning and
Analysis filled out the survey with her this year.

While Martin isn't a huge fan of the rankings, she also doesn't blame U.S. News
& World Report for attempting to rank the best colleges in the country. Instead,
Martin told Inside Higher Ed she blames our culture's broader love of
comparisons and lists: "We're all susceptible to the lure of rankings of various
things, and that sort of race to the top and reliance on rankings of this kind
is itself part of the problem."

tfinkelmeyer@madison.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bascom Hall JEFF MILLER/UW COMMUNICATIONS "The problem with an overall
ranking of colleges is that without set criteria, you don't know what it means,"
says Aaron Brower, UW-Madison's vice provost for teaching and learning. Photo of
Paul DeLuca

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                           December 14, 2010 Tuesday

Website calls Williams College one of top 10 'druggiest'

BYLINE: By Meghan Foley, New England Newspapers

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 479 words


Wednesday December 15, 2010

WILLIAMSTOWN -- Williams College has been named the 10th "druggiest" college in
the country by the Internet news website, The Daily Beast.

The college is one of five New England institutions to be included in the top 10
of the website's list that ranks 50 national colleges and universities as
hotbeds for drug use.

The University of New Hampshire was ranked first on the list, followed by
Northeastern University in Boston, Bryant University in Smithfield, R.I., and
the University of Maine.

Ranked fifth on the list was the State University of New York (SUNY) at Purchase
followed by the University of Colorado at Boulder, SUNY at Oneonta, California
State University at Monterey Bay and West Virginia University.

James G. Kolesar, assistant to the president for public affairs at Williams
College, said Tuesday the college questions the validity of the rankings,
especially with three of the five factors being used in the exercise being based
on statewide figures.

"Williamstown is as remote from the state population centers as is possible to
be," he said.

He said Williams' ranking doesn't tell the college anything.

"Our knowledge of the situation is much more local and direct than that," he
said.

The Daily Beast said in a corresponding article to the "druggiest" college
rankings that it determined the list by using available statistics beginning
with College Prowler, an Internet student-review database, to determine the
colleges and universities that had "drug scene" grades.

It then gathered information on illicit drug, marijuana and cocaine use by state
for people 18 to 25 years old from the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services' 2009 National Survey on Drug Abuse. The site also collected data from
the U.S. Department of Education about the number of on-campus arrests for
drug-law violations at each institution in 2009.

To determine the final ranking, the College Prowler grades were given a
numerical value, which counted for one-third of each institution's final score.
Drug-law violation arrests per capita of students per institution contributed to
one-third of the score, and the final one-third was the drug-use rank.

According to the rankings, 24.41 percent of people 18 to 25 years old in
Massachusetts use drugs regularly, 35.72 percent use marijuana regularly, and
6.36 percent use cocaine regularly.

While Williams College received an A- from College Prowler -- meaning its drug
scene isn't visible and students don't feel pressured into doing drugs -- it had
41 arrests on-campus for drug law violations in 2009 out of 2,141 students,
according to the rankings.

Kolesar said the number of arrests included in the ranking doesn't correspond to
any numbers he has found from Williams security or local law enforcement.

Ranked 11th on the list after Williams was Ohio Wesleyan University, which had a
drug-use grade of C-plus.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             October 8, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Database Has Score On Private Colleges

BYLINE: ADAM EMERSON, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 558 words


WEB SITE GIVES FAMILIES INFORMATION THEY SEEK

By ADAM EMERSON

The Tampa Tribune

ST. PETERSBURG - If you want to know how Eckerd College in St. Petersburg ranks
among its peers, look no further than the perennial U.S. News and World Report
compilation of America's Best Colleges.

But if you find such rankings "silly," as Eckerd President Donald Eastman does,
a trade group for private colleges is pushing a new Web site it says will
provide more transparency in researching higher education.

The U-CAN database offers many of the criteria U.S. News editors publish in its
survey, such as SAT scores, class sizes and acceptance rates.

You'll find no schools ranked, however. Dozens of private schools nationwide
refuse to participate in the U.S. News and World Report rankings, including
Eckerd. Many have signed on to U-CAN, which they say responds with information
families want.

On the new network, Eckerd publishes the percentage of students who are women
(56), percentage of students receiving loans (74) and the percentage of students
living on campus (96).

"It is not tweaked into this silly sort of ranking system," said Eastman, whose
school is ranked in the third of four "tiers" in the U.S. News and World Report
ranking of Best Liberal Arts Colleges.

Although private college presidents who signed on have heralded the new network,
they acknowledged that U.S. News is a household name. The National Association
of Independent Colleges and Universities, which produces U-CAN, is not.

Rollins College Joining U-CAN

Rollins College in Winter Park is joining the U-CAN network, but its president
was not among the majority of liberal-arts college presidents who met in June
and denounced the U.S. News rankings.

Rollins Provost Roger Casey said he might as well send accurate information to a
magazine that would seek the data even without his participation. Schools
boycotting the magazine have done so only with damage to their ranking.

Rollins is ranked No. 1 among master's universities in the South.

But Casey calls U-CAN "a great national tool for private colleges. The more
sources of information out there, the better informed families will be."

When colleges protested the U.S. News rankings, the magazine's editor, Brian
Kelly, told The New York Times then that he applauded any effort to come up with
new data, adding that "if a few presidents don't want to participate, we
understand."

Consumer-Friendly Information

Officials with the Association of Independent Colleges and Universities say an
alternative to other college guides only partly drove the launch of U-CAN. The
network also is a response to Education Secretary Margaret Spellings' call for
colleges and universities to provide more consumer-friendly information tools.

The association's effort is only one colleges nationwide are undertaking. Roland
King, a spokesman for the private schools' trade group, said the National
Association of State Universities and Land-Grant Colleges is working on a
similar effort for public schools.

Currently, only private colleges and universities are featured on U-CAN. Besides
Eckerd and Rollins, 13 other Florida schools are on, or plan to join, the
network.

Reporter Adam Emerson can be reached at (813) 259-8285 or aemerson@tampatrib.com

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 14, 2017 Thursday

Top 10 Ranking for Ithaca College by U.S. News & World Report

LENGTH: 281  words



New York: Ithaca College has issued the following news release:
U.S. News & World Report gives Ithaca College high marks for both quality and
value in its just-released rankings. IC is listed as the #8 "best college" in
the North region among the 196 institutions of its kind, and at #13 for
providing a "best value" -- combining that quality education with an affordable
cost.


The rankings are based on what the magazine considers key measures of an
institution's quality: peer assessment, graduation and retention rates, faculty
resources, student selectivity, financial resources, graduation rate performance
and alumni giving.
This is the 23rd consecutive year that Ithaca College has been ranked in the top
15 by U.S. News & World Report.
"This is yet another affirmation of the consistent talent demonstrated by our
students, faculty and staff," said Ithaca College President Shirley M. Collado.
"We certainly hope that prospective students and families will take Ithaca
College's high quality and value into account when considering their higher
education choices."
The magazine places Ithaca College in the regional universities category, which
includes institutions that provide a full range of undergraduate majors and
master's degree programs but few, if any, doctoral programs (Ithaca College
offers one doctoral program). For this category, the rankings are divided into
four regions -- North, South, Midwest and West. The magazine also has separate
ranking categories for national universities, national liberal arts colleges and
regional colleges.

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 3, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Best, The Top, The Most

BYLINE:  By Nicholas Thompson; Nicholas Thompson is a fellow at the New America
Foundation.

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 3; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 4306 words


U.S. NEWS & WORLD REPORT ranks Columbia University as the 10th best university
in the country. The Princeton Review gives its food good scores but says its
bureaucracy is the nation's 17th worst. Columbia also has the third, sixth or
10th best business school, depending on whether you believe The Financial Times,
Business Week or The Wall Street Journal (which just a year earlier called the
school, with mostly the same faculty, same library and many of the same
students, the 34th best).

America is fascinated with competitive lists, and by combining that obsession
with higher education's status-defining role, the assorted ranking systems have
become a highly lucrative and influential industry. U.S. News sells hundreds of
thousands of copies of its annual college and graduate school guides. The day
after announcing its 2003 rankings last October, Business Week's Web site
received two million hits. And new rankings hit the market every year. This
year, Entrepreneur magazine and Seventeen inaugurated their own. (Rice is the
"coolest school in the land" in part for its proximity to great shopping and
cute boys.)

Be they whimsical or dead serious, assessments of colleges and universities are
always controversial. The core criticism is that it's impossible to quantify
something as complicated as a university. Every September when U.S. News
announces its results, a chorus of pundits weigh in with variations on the
aphorism supposedly tacked to Einstein's office wall: "Not everything that
counts can be counted, and not everything that can be counted counts."

"Rankings give a false sense of the world and an inauthentic view of what a
college education really is," says Lee C. Bollinger, president of Columbia,
adding that they reflect and contribute to "a steadily rising level of
competitiveness and anxiety among young people about getting into the right
college."

Bruce Hunter, chief college counselor at Rowland Hall-St. Mark's, a private
school in Salt Lake City, says he stands in front of the student body every fall
and tears the rankings pages from his U.S. News guidebook for just this reason.

Different systems can approximate a campus's wealth, credentials of the people
who come to it, how much students think they learn and what they do afterward.
But no one has come up with a formula for combining these factors that satisfies
educators. Even if someone did, students care about the various components to
different degrees.

"You can't quantify the important things," says Edward B. Fiske, author of "The
Fiske Guide to Colleges." Instead of rankings, the guide relies on subjective
analysis, which is something Mr. Fiske is proud of. "We do not use arbitrary
formulas as a matter of principle, nor do we operate with any gnostic sorts of
information," he says. Nonetheless, in this world of "bests" and "mosts," the
Fiske guide includes 43 "Best Buys" (in Mr. Fiske's opinion).

Each of the rankings uses a distinct methodology to quantify some element of the
college experience for the prospective consumer. Understanding how they work can
help students decide if a given ranking says something worth knowing.

THE BIG BOY
U.S. NEWS & WORLD REPORT

If there were a ranking of the rankings based on influence, the winner would
undoubtedly be U.S. News's "America's Best Colleges." Selling out in bookstores
since its arrival in 1983, U.S. News is the New York Yankees of the field: the
richest, most followed and most disliked. The media report the results each
September, and colleges routinely crow when they do well, even in obscure
categories -- Northeastern University in Boston hung a banner on campus last
fall announcing its success in the "internships/co-ops" ranking.

Eugene P. Trani, president of Virginia Commonwealth University, carries a card
in his briefcase listing his presidential priorities for the next five years.
The top one: becoming a tier-two university. The trustees have promised him a
$25,000 raise if the university jumps a tier under his watch. Dr. Trani insists
he will not change the nature of the university to improve in rankings. But, he
says, "you have to accept the fact that they're here." He notes that they
clearly matter to his alumni, the board and the politicians who set his budget.

While there were other considerations, "U.S. News was one factor" tipping the
scales in favor of an admissions policy change at Hamilton College, says Richard
M. Fuller, who retired in May after almost a decade as admissions dean.
Hamilton, a high-ranked liberal arts college in Clinton, N.Y., recently adopted
an early-decision admissions program and made the submission of SAT scores
optional. Low-scoring students might well withhold their SAT scores, improving
the college's averages, and binding early-decision programs have traditionally
increased an institution's score in the category of yield -- the percentage of
accepted students who actually go to an institution. But this summer,
acknowledging that colleges thought they could improve their rankings by
manipulating their yield, U.S. News eliminated the category.

The magazine's executive editor, Brian Kelly, says that in reality yield was a
small factor in the rankings. He notes that some categories, like freshman
retention rates and percentage of alumni donors, encourage positive behavior.

"There's a lot of obsessions," he says. "If a school is doing something merely
to look good in the rankings, it is behaving unethically."

Initially, U.S. News relied on a simple opinion survey. Twenty years of steady
evolution later, it now hasa formula that could flummox a statistics major. The
magazine gathers raw data on factors ranging from average class size to expected
graduation rate to reputation, as judged by a survey of university presidents,
provosts and admissions deans. The information is turned into rankings through a
formula that gives subjective weights to each factor, as determined by the
magazine's editors. For example, the proportion of professors with the highest
degrees in their fields matters three times as much as student-faculty ratio but
a bit less than half as much as average faculty salary, adjusted for regional
differences in living expenses.

Wealth (endowment spending, alumni giving) figures significantly, Mr. Kelly
says. "But our rankings formula shows that we don't mainly measure wealth. It is
one of a series of factors that include the academic standing of students,
student satisfaction after freshman year, peer assessment. We see one wealth
indicator -- alumni contributions -- as a partial proxy for student satisfaction
and accomplishment. Students who had a good experience tend to give more than
those who didn't."

With these factors, it's easy to guess who's going to end up on top: Harvard,
Yale and Princeton round out the first three essentially every year. In fact,
when asked how he knew his system was sound, Mel Elfin, the rankings' founder,
often answered that he knew it because those three schools always landed on top.
When a new lead statistician, Amy Graham, changed the formula in 1999 to what
she considered more statistically valid, the California Institute of Technology
jumped to first place. Ms. Graham soon left, and a slightly modified system
pushed Princeton back to No. 1 the next year. (In 2001, Ms. Graham and I
co-wrote an article dissecting the U.S. News rankings for Washington Monthly,
and as an undergraduate at Stanford in 1996, I helped found a student group that
was critical of rankings.)

U.S. News works diligently to ensure the rigor of the numbers it crunches. As a
result, many in academia credit the magazine with forcing colleges to
standardize the way they record and report information. Few challenge the
contention by Mr. Kelly that "with data collection, we believe that what we do
is basically state of the art."

But the system still has flaws. For one, surveys can be an imprecise science.
University presidents and senior administrators may not know a whole lot about
every school they are asked to evaluate, and they may be biased: 7 percent of
the presidents surveyed in 2001 admitted to deliberately downgrading peers,
according to a poll by the Association of Governing Boards of Universities and
Colleges.

In addition, with much of the data submitted by the colleges themselves,
institutions can shade their information, though U.S. News says it double-checks
everything it can. Nonetheless, errors slip in. For instance, the 2003 rankings
report that one in every four students at Manhattanville College in Purchase,
N.Y., scored higher than 1500 on the SAT. That's not true. The top quartile
scored just 1150. Manhattanville's president, Richard A. Berman, says he has no
idea how the misinformation got to U.S. News and expresses relief that the error
was not the reason the college leaped in the current rankings from the second
tier to the bottom of the first. (Only the mean SAT score is factored in to
determine a ranking, and Manhattanville submitted that figure correctly.)

But to Mr. Berman, having a number so markedly wrong in the table just
emphasizes the difficulty of quantifying educational quality. With slightly
different formulas and slightly different numbers, "we could be No. 7," he says.


THE OTHER GUYS
KIPLINGER'S PERSONAL FINANCE

U.S. News rankings tend to ignore a college's cost. In search of campuses "that
combine great academics with affordable tuitions," Kiplinger's magazine, with a
circulation of one million, has run a guide to the "100 Best Public Colleges"
every other fall since 1998. Large public universities that do respectably (if
not astoundingly well) in U.S. News fare the very best in these rankings.

In addition to academic data similar to U.S. News's, Kiplinger's considers cost
factors like tuition, financial aid and living expenses. But its formula has a
few bugs. The algorithm is supposed to exclude colleges with average SAT scores
below 1030. That screening failed last fall. Subsequently, five institutions
below the cutoff made it onto the final list, and then were removed several
weeks after the rankings hit newsstands. Among those kicked off were all the
historically black colleges and universities on the list, including 49th-rated
North Carolina Central University, which had already started publicizing its
success. The editors don't know why the formula failed but expect to have it
worked out by the next ranking, in 2004.

THE CENTER: LOMBARDI PROGRAM ON
MEASURING UNIVERSITY PERFORMANCE

For college applicants, one of the frustrations of rankings is trying to figure
out what matters and by how much. "Top American Research Universities," an
annual report from the Center, the Lombardi Program on Measuring University
Performance, a research institution at the University of Florida in Gainesville,
offers a ranking far simpler and more transparent than U.S. News's and
Kiplinger's.

The report, published online in September (thecenter.ufl.edu/research2001.pdf)
and distributed free to anyone who asks for a copy, ranks universities in nine
categories, including median SAT scores, doctorates granted and faculty awards
received. Universities scoring in the top 25 in all nine categories form one
group, followed by those scoring in the top 25 in eight categories, in seven
categories and so on.

By giving schools the same credit for scoring sixth in a category as, say,
ninth, this ranking avoids the complaint often hurled at U.S. News that tiny
differences in scores matter too much. "Universities cluster, and the borders
between the clusters are fuzzy," says John V. Lombardi, the researcher for whom
the system is named and now chancellor of the University of Massachusetts at
Amherst.

But by dealing with that problem, the Lombardi system creates a subsequent one:
huge differences among the institutions that barely slide into the top 25 and
those that just miss it. For instance, if Johns Hopkins University had granted
392 doctorates in 2001 instead of the 384 that it did, it would have landed in
the first tier instead of the second tier.

STUDENT KNOWS BEST
PRINCETON REVIEW

If U.S. News, Kiplinger's and the Center are primarily concerned with an
institution's credentials, the Princeton Review's "Best 345 Colleges," which
sells about 100,000 copies annually, focuses more on what happens there. To many
academics, this is the right thing to measure. The question remains: Can it be
measured?

The Princeton Review gives every college a "selectivity" rating on a one-to-four
scale based on factors like incoming students' SAT scores and admissions yield.
But all other ratings spring from student surveys. "We survey kids to get a feel
for the school," says the chief executive, John S. Katzman. "And then it's just
too much fun to not rank the top 20 and the bottom 20." The surveys, he says,
give a better picture of what actually happens on a campus than anything else
available. "U.S. News very carefully measures things that are not important,"
Mr. Katzman says. "We survey 100,000 kids a year, which is 100,000 more than
they do."

To sample students for its rankings and general profiles, the Princeton Review
passes out surveys using a technique known as random intercept. For example, for
the new edition coming out later this month (as "The Best 351 Colleges"), two
young men handed out questionnaires last January in the cafeteria of
Manhattanville College to whoever passed by (with no way of tracking whether
someone came by more than once).

Based on conversations with students that day, the college will do well when it
comes to the food ranking but not so well on location: Purchase, N.Y.

Conventional wisdom seldom applies with the Princeton Review. In "best overall
academic experience," Northwestern tops the 2003 scales; Harvard doesn't even
crack the top 20. Wabash, the all-men's college ranked 44th by U.S. News, is one
of the Princeton Review's more academically rigorous colleges, making top-10
lists for both quality of professors and strong student work ethic.

Many administrators don't trust the data. "Terrible is the only word for it,"
says David Davis-Van Atta, director of institutional research at Carleton
College in Northfield, Minn. He faults the data collection as haphazard and
random intercept as "well established to often give nonrepresentative, not
cross-sectional results." In addition, he points out that e-mail addresses are
optional on paper questionnaires (few students in the Manhattanville cafeteria
that day included one), meaning students can retake the anonymous survey online
after filling one out by hand.

Moreover, Mr. Davis-Van Atta says the questions are inappropriate for seriously
evaluating a campus. For example, one question on the current survey asks
students to grade their college's financial aid on a scale of A ("It's nirvana")
to E (a vulgarism). The question, he says, "does not meet any normal standards
for survey design." Last fall, he queried directors of institutional research at
other universities and received 35 complaints similar to his.

Mr. Katzman concedes cheating is possible but says the problem is small enough
not to throw off results. "We have never claimed that the survey is scientific
or precise," he says. "But it's consistently useful and accurate. You will find
more alcohol and drugs at our party schools than at our 'stone-cold sober'
schools, and the same holds true for our other lists. In fact, we ask kids to
read and rate the prior year's write-up: 76 percent say either 'on target' or
'extremely on target'; only 7 percent say either 'off base' or 'way off base."'
Asked about Mr. Davis-Van Atta's criticism of the financial aid question, Mr.
Katzman quips: "He's right. We should have asked students to rate their schools
from 'nirvana' to 'untouchable."'

As with U.S. News, "The 345 Best Colleges" is considered a boon to colleges that
do well, and administrators see it as significant enough that they have been
known to try to affect their scores. In 2001, when the rankings declared that
Macalester College in St. Paul was one of 20 colleges with the least religious
activity, its president raised a ruckus by sending an e-mail to deans suggesting
they get students to say on the next survey that they pray a lot. Macalester has
a picture of the Princeton Review on its admissions home page, along with a
complimentary quote from a former editor.

GRADUATE SCHOOLS
U.S. NEWS, BUSINESS WEEK, FINANCIAL TIMES, WALL STREET JOURNAL

One key indicator of the value of an education is the success of its immediate
graduates. That's a problem with undergraduate rankings: students want to do
different things. But most everyone who gets an M.B.A. wants to work in
business; and most everyone who goes to law school wants to be a lawyer. So
programs can be judged by tracking the entry-level success of graduates in the
job market. Twenty percent of U.S. News's law school rankings are based on the
rate of graduates who pass the bar and rates of employment both at graduation
and nine months later.

To an extent even greater than with its undergraduate rankings, U.S. News's law
school list dominates the field. As a result, its "Best Graduate Schools"
special issue and guidebook, published in April, causes even more consternation
than "America's Best Colleges." Peter M. Shane, former dean of the University of
Pittsburgh's law school, reports that his school's drop in the rankings one year
and rise the next "was treated as an enormous crisis, and then an enormous
victory -- though it wasn't as if anything particularly significant changed in
the quality of the school." That pressure, he says, also pushed him to set goals
that perhaps differed from the school's or students' best interest, like
focusing fund-raising efforts on merit-based scholarships for students with high
grades or LSAT scores instead of need-based scholarships.

The rankings also rankle because academics don't think they account for what
matters most. "What you don't know, you can't rate," says Richard A. Epstein, a
professor and former interim dean at the University of Chicago Law School. "U.S.
News doesn't know teaching and scholarship. So what does it mean to rate these
schools if you take out the two essential missions of a law school?" More than
90 percent of the deans of the schools accredited by the American Bar
Association have signed a letter denouncing the rankings. Mr. Kelly, on the
other hand, points to the reputation survey of law school deans and faculty
members that makes up 25 percent of the ranking. "Our ratings reflect the view
of people who do know about teaching and scholarship," he says.

BUSINESS school rankings by U.S. News are also based on factors like admissions
test scores, a reputation survey and a survey of corporate recruiters. But
unlike with law schools, there's real competition here. Three other publications
put out widely read surveys that students, recruiters and administrators all
take seriously.

"Rankings are maybe the single most important thing on the minds of most
business school deans in America," says Tim Westerbeck, who focuses on business
schools as an executive vice president of the marketing firm Lipman Hearne.

The leader in the field, Business Week, has been putting out "The Best
B-Schools" every other October since 1988. Forty-five percent of its rankings
are based on a student satisfaction survey, 45 percent on a survey of about 200
corporate recruiters and 10 percent on faculty scholarship, based on the number
of articles in selected journals and books reviewed in prestigious publications.

Instead of a student satisfaction survey, The Financial Times measures salaries
of recent graduates as well as faculty diversity and publications. Using only
data that can be compared across countries, the newspaper measures schools from
around the world. In its latest special section, published in January, the
United States took the top five spots; the Insead outside Paris was the top
entry abroad, in sixth place.

The Wall Street Journal's "Top Business Schools" also ranks internationally but
is based entirely on a survey of corporate recruiters whose names are provided
by the schools. The 2003 rankings, issued in September, are The Journal's second
foray into the ratings business; this time, it surveyed 2,201 recruiters,
compared with 1,600 for 2002. Both years, Dartmouth landed on top.

The Journal's top choices tend to differ from the other publications'. The
University of California at Berkeley is the only West Coast school in its top
25, although four make U.S. News's top 20. Stanford comes in second in U.S. News
and does well in The Financial Times and Business Week. But it's 39th in The
Journal. Ronald J. Alsop, editor of The Journal's guide, suggests this anomaly
may occur because, although Stanford's admissions test scores are high and its
faculty publishes prolifically, many recruiters see it as a place for the
"arrogant" and complain about its career services office. According to Mr.
Alsop, "When asked 'What is the first thing that comes to mind' about Stanford,
recruiters in the survey made comments like 'California country club."'

Another possibility is that fewer West Coast recruiters answered the survey; 20
percent of a school's score is based on the number of recruiters who list it at
all. (Harris Interactive, which conducts the poll for The Journal, says it
cannot provide a regional breakdown of respondents.) The Journal may also differ
because it relies on one indicator (recruiter input), which would have far less
swing if 20 factors were cobbled together.

As with other rankings, business school assessments have almost certainly had an
impact on decision making, sometimes for the better and sometimes for the worse.
David C. Schmittlein, deputy dean at the Wharton School, says his school now
tries to pinpoint what students think of campus opportunities and improve them.
"You want to figure out any problems before The Financial Times does," he says.
On the other side of the fence, MaryBeth Walpole, an assistant professor at
Rowan University in Glassboro, N.J., who studied rankings in 1999, says that
nearly two of five business school professors surveyed thought that Business
Week's student satisfaction surveys put pressure on them to make courses easier.

As with all the rankings, the surest way to find someone who thinks they have
had a pernicious effect is to find someone whose school has recently dropped.
People who believe they foster virtuous competition can often be found at
schools that have done well. Asked about making it into U.S. News's top tier for
the first time last fall, Mr. Berman of Manhattanville gives a big smile and
says: "When we weren't in the top tier we could tell you all the flaws in the
ranking system. Now we think they have finally realized the right way to rank."


WHO CARES? (Not Students, Apparently)
RANKINGS seem to matter less to high school students than one might assume,
given the heat they generate among administrators and alumni. For the most part,
young students seem to follow the suggestion that rankings should serve as a
"starting point," as U.S. News & World Report urges in the prelude to its
rankings.

According to a 2002 poll by the Art and Science Group, a higher education
consulting company, about 20 percent of high school seniors headed for four-year
colleges read "any articles or reports that ranked colleges," with students who
score highest on SAT's paying the most attention. Only 12 percent say rankings
were "very influential" in their decisions, and 5 percent cite U.S. News
specifically. The prestige of a high ranking is more a selling point for
parents. A survey in September at Illinois Wesleyan University found parents
four times as likely as incoming freshmen to have given a lot of weight to
rankings.

"Are they having a broad and deep effect on a large proportion of college-bound
students? The answer is no," says David W. Strauss, an Art and Science partner.
"Administrators will tell you they hear about rankings from their trustees and
their alums," he says. "Our fear is that the institution will pay so much
attention -- sometimes to the detriment of the quality of the institution --
that eventually the students will, too."

Even the fiercest critics of rankings aren't immune. Leon Botstein, president of
Bard College, denounces U.S. News rankings as "a grotesque simplification and
distortion" but admits that he has mentioned Bard's standing to persuade alumni
to make donations. "I was able to say to the alumni leadership: insofar as you
are concerned about it, you can help us here," he says. Increasing the
percentage of alumni donors lifts a college's U.S. News score. Dr. Botstein
knows that Bard alumni care about that.

According to surveys by GDA Integrated Services, educational consultants in Old
Saybrook, Conn., 70 percent of alumni agree or strongly agree that "a high
placement in the U.S. News rankings of colleges is important."

George Dehne, the company's chief executive, explains: "It's an ego thing."
NICHOLAS THOMPSON

Best National Universities -- Doctoral: 1. Princeton; 2. Harvard; 3. Yale
Top American Research Universities (top tier in alphabetical order): Harvard;
Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Stanford
100 Best Public Colleges: 1. University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill; 2.
University of Virginia; 3. University of California at Berkeley
Best Overall Academic Experience: 1. Northwestern; 2. Amherst; 3. Air Force
Academy
Best Business Schools: 1. Northwestern (Kellogg); 2. University of Chicago; 3.
Harvard
Top Business Schools: 1. Dartmouth (Tuck); 2. University of Michigan; 3.
Carnegie Mellon
Top 100 International M.B.A. Programs: 1. University of Pennsylvania (Wharton);
2. Harvard; 3. Columbia
Top Law Schools: 1. Yale; 2. Stanford; 3. Harvard
Top Business Schools: 1. Harvard; 2. Stanford; 3. University of Pennsylvania

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Christoph Hitz); (Drawing by Stuart Goldenberg)
Chart: "DECISIVE FACTORS"A survey of 500 high school students revealed what
influenced their college decision. (Source: The Art and Science Group)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company

                              417 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             August 17, 2007 Friday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

6 COLLEGES FROM EMPIRE STATE IN MAG'S TOP 50

BYLINE: BY ERIN EINHORN DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 410 words


SIX NEW YORK universities, including Columbia, Cornell and NYU, are among the 50
best schools in the nation, according to U.S. News & World Report.

Princeton won the magazine's top honor for the eighth year in a row, beating out
Harvard, Yale and Stanford on the much-anticipated annual list.

The rankings consider a school's reputation, its selectivity and the rate at
which its freshmen return for a second year, among other factors.

U.S. News editor Brian Kelly said the rankings are "a great snapshot" and "a
great way to look at a very complicated array of data."

"We don't have any favorites," Kelly said. "We don't care who wins or loses. Our
responsibility is just to get the numbers right."

The rankings are closely watched by parents, students - and colleges, including
some that have been accused of changing policies to inflate their standings.

The magazine also is releasing its annual list of top liberal arts colleges
today, naming Williams College in Massachusetts as the country's best.

Seven New York colleges made the top 50 liberal arts list, including Vassar,
Colgate and Hamilton. Also making the liberal arts list for the first time this
year was the U.S. Military Academy at West Point.

Military academies were ranked for the first time because of a change in the
criteria the magazine used to classify schools.

U.S. News also made some changes to its ranking methods, including an effort to
adjust for biases against schools that accept high numbers of poor students.

Those schools tend to have lower graduation rates because impoverished students
historically have been less likely to graduate than their wealthier peers.

This year's rankings excluded students in poverty from the graduation rate.

eeinhorn@nydailynews.com

Graphic: N.Y. STATE OF MIND.

Here's how some New York institutions fared on U.S. News and World Report's list
of top universities:

9. Columbia University

12. Cornell University

34. New York University

35. University of Rochester

44. Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute

50. Syracuse University

52. Yeshiva University

67. Fordham University

85. SUNY College of Environmental Science

96. SUNY Stony Brook

118. SUNY Buffalo

New York schools on the magazine's list of top liberal arts colleges:

13. Vassar College

17. Colgate University

18. Hamilton College

23. U.S. Military Academy

30. Barnard College

37. Bard College

40. Union College

47. Skidmore College

58. St. Lawrence University

63. Hobart & William Smith Colleges

122. Siena College

122. Wells College

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC;LIST, Campus of Columbia University, which was 9th in ranking
of U.S. colleges. Photo by Mariela Lombard

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 Daily News, L.P.

                              418 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            August 17, 2010 Tuesday

Harvard takes top spot in US News college rankings

BYLINE: Richard Adamsguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 295 words

ABSTRACT

Richard Adams: Harvard University narrowly regains undisputed first place over
Princeton in US News & World Report college rankings

FULL TEXT

Harvard University has been  in the influential US News & World Report college
rankings, retaking the undisputed number one position after sharing the podium
with Princeton last year.

According to the , this year only a single point out of 100 separated Harvard
and , with Harvard taking the gold medal thanks to its superior student
graduation rates, financial resources and staff.

A quartet of elite Ivy league universities - Harvard, Princeton, Yale and
Columbia took the top four positions - with Stanford tied for fifth place with
the University of Pennsylvania, another Ivy League college.

Columbia, in New York city, was the biggest winner in the 2010 rankings, rising
from eighth to fourth at the expense of MIT, the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, and Cal Tech, the California Institute of Technology.

The University of California's Berkeley campus in San Francisco was the highest
state-funded university, ranked 22nd overall.

Among the smaller undergraduate-focused institutions, Williams College in
Massachusetts remained the top liberal arts college.

Although often derided as a shallow beauty contest, the US News rankings are
closely watched by thousands of college-bound students and their parents, with
movement up or down the annual listings of just a few places having an oversized
impact on application numbers and recruitment.

The top 10 US News rankings:

1. Harvard University2. Princeton University3. Yale University4. Columbia
University5= Stanford, University of Pennsylvania7= Cal Tech, MIT9= Dartmouth,
Duke, University of Chicago

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 6, 2017 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Trinity College climbs global rankings despite funding woes

BYLINE: Ellen Coyne

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 554 words


Trinity College Dublin is the only Irish university to rise in the latest global
rankings amid warnings that the country's reputation is at risk from a lack of
funding.

The Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2018 place the Dublin
college at 117, a climb of 14 places from its position at 131 last year. It
remains the highest-placed university in the country.

Ireland has kept nine institutions in the top 1,000 list of universities across
77 countries. Most of its higher education institutions have remained in similar
bands to last year, with Maynooth University the only change. It has dropped
from the 351-400 grouping to 401-500.

John Boland, the dean of research at Trinity College, welcomed the new ranking.
He said that the university had achieved an increase in standard in spite of a
challenging situation.

"We have achieved this result today despite so many challenging factors,
including the rise of Asia-Pacific countries, due to much greater investment,
intense global competition, but also the continued chronic underfunding of
higher education in Ireland. It is a testament to the excellence of our
teaching, research and overall educational experience. All of which is made
possible by the sheer commitment of our great staff," he said.

Phil Baty, editorial director of the THE global rankings, said it was "great
news" that Trinity College had managed to improve its performance. "But
Ireland's global standing is likely to decline if funding does not increase and
institutions are not given greater autonomy," he said. "The UK's exit from the
EU provides great opportunities for Ireland - the country could be well placed
to attract researchers from the UK and elsewhere that want to retain access to
EU research funding and remain in the EU. Ireland must ensure that it invests in
its universities to take advantage of its position and remain a key global
player in higher education."

Trinity College Dublin re-entered the rankings at 131 last year after it was
initially removed because of an error in its submission. The error related to a
misplaced decimal point in income derived from research funding. After an audit
by Trinity it was temporarily removed from the rankings. The same mistake was
made in its submission for 2015. As a result its ranking for two years ago has
been revised up from 160 to 101. The National University of Ireland Galway,
University College Dublin and the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland have all
kept their places between 201 and 250. University College Cork is still ranked
between 351 and 400, while Dublin City University is also stagnant between 401
and 500.

The University of Limerick and Dublin Institute of Technology are both still the
lowest Irish institutions on the list, ranking between 501 and 600 and 601 and
800 respectively.

The University of Oxford maintained the top spot once again, followed by the
University of Cambridge, which climbed from fourth position. Stanford University
and the California Institute of Technology shared third place, while the rest of
the top ten continued to be dominated by US institutions, with Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Harvard University and Princeton University remaining
in fifth, sixth and seventh position. Imperial College London is the third
British university in the top ten at number eight.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2017 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 23, 2017 Thursday

WMU named one of top 100 schools for veterans by Military Times

LENGTH: 389  words



Michigan: Western Michigan University has issued the following news release:
Western Michigan University has been named one of the nation's top colleges for
veterans by Military Times magazine.


WMU came in at No. 99 on the publication group's Military Times Best: Colleges
2018 rankings, formerly known as the Best for Vets rating. The annual assessment
was released Nov. 20. This is the publication's eighth annual set of rankings it
calls the most comprehensive school-by-school assessment of veteran and military
student services and rates of academic achievement.
This also is the eighth consecutive year that WMU has been named among the
nation's top schools in the ranking, making it the only Michigan school to
appear on all eight Military Times Best Colleges lists. Also in the top 100 of
this year's list are the University of Michigan and Eastern Michigan University.

As with all Military Times rankings, Best Colleges 2018 is an editorially
independent news project that evaluates the factors that help make colleges and
universities a good fit for service members, and military veterans as well as
their families. More than 600 colleges took part in this year's detailed survey.

"Of the hundreds of schools that applied, fewer than half received the Military
Times Best Colleges designation this year. Only the best made the cut," said
George Altman, the Military Times editor in charge of the rankings. "For the
past eight years, we've seen colleges and universities consistently increasing
their resources, revising their policies and improving their academic outcomes
for military and veteran students. The Military Times Best Colleges rankings
showcase the very best of these efforts."
Military Times' annual Best Colleges survey asks colleges and universities to
meticulously document an array of services, special rules, accommodations and
financial incentives offered to students with military ties, and to describe
many aspects of veteran culture on a campus. Military Times also factors in data
from the U.S. department of Veterans Affairs and Defense, as well as three U.S.
Department of Education sources: the IPEDS Data Center, College Scorecard and
the Cohort Default Rate Database.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           August 27, 2014 Wednesday

CSULB Named 10th Best 'Bang for the Buck' College in the Nation

LENGTH: 347  words

DATELINE: Long Beach


California State University has issued the following news release:

Out of 386 public and private universities across the nation, Cal State Long
Beach (CSULB) has been ranked as the tenth best "Bang for the Buck" college.

This marks Washington Monthly's second year in offering a "Buck" measure since
it created its College Guide rankings in 2005. CSULB has unfortunately dropped
four spots since 2013's rankings, where it sat at a loftier #6. The drop in
ranking is likely due to the school's increase in overall cost: last year, the
net price of attending CSULB per year sat at $5,699 while this year saw a hefty
30% increase over that value, peaking at $8,080 per year.

According to the editors of Washington, the publication has not just questioned
the value, exclusivity, or luxuriousness of colleges across the nation--but the
benefit these colleges provide to taxpayers and our country. This was a
precursor to the White House's announcement earlier this year regarding its own
new ranking system, where CSULB was declared a Top 10 school overall in the
nation.

"Our rankings have always rejected the idea that expense, luxury, and
exclusivity should be held up as the highest values for colleges and students to
aspire to," said the editors of Washington in theirintroduction to the rankings.
"Instead, we ask a different question: What are colleges doing for the country?
Higher education, after all, doesn't just affect students. We all benefit when
colleges produce groundbreaking research that drives economic growth, when they
put students from lower-income families on the path to a better life, and when
they shape the character of future leaders. And we all pay for it, through
hundreds of billions of dollars in government-financed financial aid, tax
breaks, and other spending.

Cal State Fullerton was the highest-ranking "Buck" institution in California,
sitting at #4 (where it also sat last year). The number one "Buck" college was
CUNY Brooklyn College, which ousted Amherst College (#5) from 2013's top spot.

For more information please visit: http://www.calstate.edu

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  Bar & Bench

                           June 22, 2013 6:30 AM EST

Outlook Rankings 2013: NLSIU Bangalore ranked the best law school in the country
followed by NALSAR Hyderabad and NLIU Bhopal

LENGTH: 185  words


After India Today, Outlook is out with its 2013 rankings of best law colleges.
NLSIU, Bangalore is back as the top law school in the country after it was
pushed to second position last year by NALSAR, Hyderabad.

This year NALSAR, Hyderabad has dropped to second position though India Today
has ranked NALSAR as the best law college
(http://barandbench.com/content/india-today-college-rankings
-2013-%E2%80%93-nalsar-replaces-nlsiu-top-clc-third-place-while-nujs-and#.UcU5Hf
aSCrc) in the country. In the third place is NLIU, Bhopal followed by NUJS,
Kolkata and ILS, Pune.

The rankings of most of the law colleges including ILS, Pune, Symbiosis Law
School, and GNLU, Gujarat have improved this year in comparison to the 2012
rankings (http://barandbench.com/content/outlook-rankings
-nalsar-hyderabad-ranked-best-law-school-country-followed-nlsiu-bangalore#.UcU5K
_aSCrc).

Faculty of Law, Jamia Millia Islamia that was not in the rankings last year, has
been ranked 11th. Bangalore Institute of Legal Studies which is ranked 15th this
time is also a new entrant in the ranking list.

The complete table is available below.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


             Copyright 2013 Bar & Bench, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                             August 18, 2006 Friday

Utah schools score well in U.S. News' ranking

BYLINE: By Shinika A. Sykes The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 368 words


Utah's colleges and universities continue to score well in U.S. News & World
Report's controversial but anticipated annual list of America's Best Colleges.

In its Aug. 28 edition - which hits the newsstand Monday - the magazine ranks
the undergraduate programs of 1,400 universities in various categories, ranging
from overall excellence to specialized programs and value. Graduate programs
will be ranked in April.

Richard Brown, the U.'s dean of engineering, attributes his college's ranking in
part to the state's engineering initiative, which has provided for a
"significant investment" in new faculty members, facilities and infrastructure.
"The new Warnock Engineering building, scheduled for completion this year, is an
exciting new addition to the college," he said Thursday.

Another bright spot for the U. is its service learning program, administered by
the Lowell Bennion Community Service Center on the U. campus. The U. was one of
just 25 schools mentioned in that category.

Utah State University made the third tier overall list - schools that rank
between 125 and 180 on the U.S. News' scale - ranking 7th for the least amount
of debt incurred for an undergraduate degree, with an average debt of $12,440.

In the overall rankings of America's Best College for 2007, Princeton has the
No. 1 spot, followed by Harvard, Yale and California Institute of Technology.

Many college administrators say they don't place much value on the rankings,
which are based on evaluations of nearly 500 criteria, because it often takes
years for a change to be noticed. Still, they readily include the magazine
ranking of their school in marketing campaigns and on their Web sites.

sykes@sltrib.com

For a complete listing of the rankings, visit http://www.

usnews.com.

-

How Utah colleges

stack up

l Brigham Young University: 70th overall excellence

37th best business program

l University of Utah:

120th overall excellence

60th best engineering program

l Utah State University:

Overall excellence (third tier)

l Westminster College of Salt Lake City:

14th best master's program in the West

l Weber State College:

41st best master's program in the West

l Utah Valley State College:

Best comprehensive college for bachelor's degree in the West

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                          September 14, 2016 Wednesday

US News ranking favors New College

BYLINE: Billy Cox

SECTION: B; FL News; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 194 words


EDUCATION

New College of Florida continues to dominate the rankings as one of America's
most prestigious schools.

U.S. News & World Report on Tuesday issued its "Best Colleges 2016" edition, in
which Florida's designated honors college finished fifth among the nation's best
liberal arts schools.

New College has finished in the magazine's top six colleges for the 12th
straight year, and this marks the school's third national citation in two
months. Earlier this month, Washington Monthly named the Sarasota honors college
20th in the nation among liberal arts schools, and in August, The Princeton
Review listed it among the top 15 percent in its "Best 381 Colleges" rankings.

Tuesday's citation was also based upon a "Least Debt" load for its liberal arts
graduates. It noted how the class of 2015 graduated with an average debt of
$14,929, seventh lowest in the country. U.S. News & World Report was also
impressed by its ability to attract top students (43 percent of its freshmen
were in the top 10 percent of its high school class), affordability (more than
60 percent graduate with no debt at all), and class size (73 percent of classes
count 20 or fewer students.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EDUCATION New College of Florida continues to dominate the rankings as
one of America's most prestigious schools. U.S. News & World Report on Tuesday
issued its "Best Colleges 2016" edition, in which Florida's designated honors
college finished fifth among the nation's best liberal arts schools.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Kilgore News Herald (Texas)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            April 15, 2017 Saturday

KC named eighth best community college in nationwide ranking

BYLINE: Chelsea Katz, Kilgore News Herald, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 378 words


April 15--College Choice named Kilgore College the eighth best community college
in the country.

Kilgore College was one of only five Texas community colleges included on the
list and one of just two ranked in the top 10.

Other Texas community colleges included in the list are San Jacinto Community
College at No. 7 (one peg above KC), Western Texas College at No. 21, Odessa
College at No. 36 and South Texas College at No. 44.

The top community college, as rated by College Choice, is California's Santa
Barbara City College.

According to a Kilgore College press release, "College Choice is an independent
online publication dedicated to helping students and their families find the
right college. It publishes rankings and reviews that make choosing the best
college easier, as well as resources to help students get into, pay for, and
thrive at the college of their choice."

The list of the top 50 community colleges was prepared based on data collected
from the Aspen Institute's College Excellence Program, Payscale and individual
community colleges.

An institutional performance score, diversity score and return on investment
score were all used in ranking the top 50 colleges.

First-year retention rates, three-year graduation rates and credentials awarded
went into the institutional performance score, while the diversity score was
made up of the percentage of non-traditional and minority students, percentage
of Pell grants and the minority graduation rates were included to develop a
diversity score. The colleges' returns on investment were made up of in-district
tuition rates and potential salaries.

Colleges not offering associates degrees were not included in the list, nor were
schools where associate degrees accounted for "an exceptionally low percentage"
of awards given out each year.

"In the end, we believe these fifty schools represent the best of what can be a
wise decision for many prospective college students," the College Choice website
states, noting the reasons to choose community colleges are affordability,
inclusivity, convenience, diversity and community involvement.

___ (c)2017 the Kilgore News Herald (Kilgore, Texas) Visit the Kilgore News
Herald (Kilgore, Texas) at www.kilgorenewsherald.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170415-KQ-KC-named-eighth-best-community-college-in-nationwide-ranking
-0415-20170415

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KQ


                       Copyright 2017 Kilgore News Herald

                              426 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             April 4, 2017 Tuesday
                                 Mumbai Edition

Little to cheer for city institutes in national rankings, IIT-B stays no. 2

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 637 words


Educational institutes across the city are shocked after the latest National
Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2017 data came out on Monday .

The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay maintained its second position among
engineering colleges, but the Institute of Chemical Technology dropped from 2 to
25 as a university . Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI) does not
figure among the top 100 and Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) enters the
charts at 49 in the overall rankings.

St Xavier's College is ranked 40th among colleges and five of the city's
management schools have made it to the top 50.

The Indian Institute of Science ranks first, followed by IIT-Madras and
IIT-Bombay in the overall NIRF 2017 rankings.Scores for teaching, learning and
resources, and graduation outcomes pulled IIT-B's rank down. It did well on
parameters like research and professional practice, outreach and inclusivity,
and public perception.

\x93It is a matter of great satisfaction for IIT-Madras that it continues to be
ranked number 1 among engineering institutions in the country . We have improved
our performance on most parameters, and quite significantly too on some key
ones,\x93 said Bhaskar Ramamurthi, director, IIT-Madras.

Many from the city felt there were issues with the scoring.ICT director G D
Yadav said he needed to analyze the data before he could comment on the college
sliding down the ranks. \x93I think among their criteria, central institutes and
the population of students has been some of the important considerations. Also,
I feel the marks have not been normalised,\x93 said Yadav .

Started in 2015, NIRF outli

nes a methodology to rank educational institutions across the country . The
parameters used for ranking broadly cover teaching, learning and resources,
research and professional practices, graduation outcome, outreach and
inclusivity , and perception. Although the broad parameters remained the same
this year, there were significant changes in some of the sub-parameters. Also,
besides ranking institutions under specific disciplines as done last year, every
large institution has also been given a common overall rank this year.

In Mumbai, another of its

top engineering colleges made it to the rankings -National Institute of
Industrial Engineering. Sardar Patel College of Engineering, VJTI, Fr. C
Rodrigues Institute of Technology , Navi Mumbai; and Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues
College of Engineering are on the charts. P Sawant, principal of Sardar Patel
College, said the quality of students, the efforts invested by faculty and the
research conducted was what saw the college among the top colleges.

Among the city's general colleges, three applied for the rankings -SIES, Sion;
St Andrews, Bandra; and St Xavier's

College. St Xavier's principal Fr Agnelo Menezes said autonomy has got them this
far.\x93Not a single non-autonomous college has made it. But we got badly hit in
research and that is bound to happen as we are largely an undergraduate college
and there is no great research taking place,\x93 he said.

Within the top 50 on the management list were five from the city -National
Institute of Industrial Engineering, S P Jain Institute of Management &
Research, Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies, K J Somaiya Institute
of Management Studies & Research,

and L N Welingkar Institute of Management Development & Research. In the 51-75
band was the Lala Lajpatrai Institute of Management. Conspicuously missing was
the Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies.

Mumbai University was placed in the 151-200 band in the overall rankings, and
-embarrassingly -among 101-150 even on the universities list.The Internal
Quality Assurance Council of MU is having a relook at the data submitted to NIRF
. \x93We are sure of our performance,\x93 said PRO Leeladhar Bansod.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 17, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

College Ratings Race Roars On Despite Concerns

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1299 words


Richard J. Cook, the president of Allegheny College in Pennsylvania, will not
say precisely how he used to rate his college's competitors when the annual U.S.
News & World Report peer review questionnaire showed up in his mailbox. What he
will say is, ''I filled it out more honestly this year than I did in the past.''

''I checked 'don't know' for every college except Allegheny,'' Dr. Cook said,
adding that he gave his own institution an outstanding rating.

U.S. News & World Report releases its annual rankings of America's top colleges
today, under attack as never before by college officials who accuse it of using
dubious statistics to stoke the intense, even crazed, competition among colleges
and universities for students and prestige.

Still there is little sign that the rankings race is diminishing. While more
than 60 presidents of liberal arts colleges signed a letter over the last few
months pledging to stop participating in the most heavily weighted component of
the magazine's rankings -- the survey of colleges' reputations -- virtually none
of the most select and highly ranked colleges signed on.

Indeed, the rankings are so influential, two decades after they were started,
that one clause in the contract of Michael Crow, the president of Arizona State
University, promises a $10,000 bonus if he can raise its standing. Frustrated
college officials and high school guidance counselors say the magazine is not
only reporting on how colleges perform, but is also  changing their behavior as
they try to devise gambits to scurry into the top ranks.

Take admissions. A college's acceptance rate, or the proportion of applicants it
admits, counts towards its rank, and the more selective the college is, the
better.

So some colleges try to increase  the number of applicants they receive -- and
turn down -- by waiving fees and dropping requirements. Some send out
applications by e-mail, with most of the student's personal information already
filled in. Others send out persistent e-mail appeals to high school sophomores,
with breathless subject lines like ''Time is running out.''

''It's pumping up the numbers, it's making colleges look more selective, and
it's contributing to the frenzy,'' said Robert J. Massa, vice president for
enrollment at Dickinson College. ''What if we become ridiculous and just go out
to a shopping mall and hand out applications?''

Then there is that survey that asks college officials to rate  other colleges
and universities. The survey, which counts for 25 percent of a college's overall
ranking, is the most heavily weighted factor.

That has spurred colleges to send glossy promotional brochures and updates on
new programs to high-ranking officials at other colleges around survey time in
hopes of impressing them. Despite such efforts, college officials say they
suspect that some in their ranks deliberately downgrade their competitors to try
to drive down their showing.

''I see where the temptation comes,'' Dr. Cook said. ''So rather than be tempted
to game the system, I think it's better to drop out.''

The magazine's editors say that the rankings provide a valuable service and that
rather than blame the magazine when colleges manipulate their numbers, people in
higher education ought to look in the mirror.

''We get blamed for a lot of things that are demonstrably not our
responsibility,'' Brian Kelly, the editor of U.S. News, said in a interview. ''I
find it a little shocking, given the problems in the higher education world
these days, that this is the thing, U.S. News, that these presidents choose to
focus on.''

Editors at U.S. News acknowledge anecdotal evidence that some colleges try to
affect the rankings, but they insist it is not widespread. The editors say they
have added myriad safeguards over the years from specific definitions of what
counts as an application to adding questions that can sniff out fudging.

Some colleges used to drop athletes' SAT scores from their computation of
incoming students' scores in order to increase  their averages and make their
institutions look more selective, Mr. Kelly said.

In response, U.S. News helped to create common definitions with organizations
like the College Board so that data reporting would be standardized and harder
to fudge.

Still, critics say that the magazine, which does not verify information
submitted by the colleges, bears some responsibility for the litany of tactics
that colleges employ.

James M. Sumner, dean of admission and financial aid at Grinnell College, said a
counterpart from a well-regarded institution told him that when computing
average SAT scores he excluded the SAT's of students accepted as ''development
cases,'' whose grades and test scores are often below average but whose families
are likely to make major donations. Mr. Sumner declined to identify the
university.

U.S. News reports the proportion of a university's alumni who contribute money
each year, as a way of measuring consumer satisfaction. Michael Beseda, vice
president for enrollment at St. Mary's College of California, said he knew
someone whose college sent him a $5 bill, asking him simply to send it back so
it would count as a donation. Several colleges have admitted taking a single
donation and spreading it over two, three or five years, to raise their annual
numbers.

Many of the tactics used by colleges involve admissions because they have more
control over it than they do over other factors in the rankings, like endowments
or reputation.

One gambit involves the so-called ''snap-app'' or ''fast-app,'' an application
sent by e-mail to high school seniors in which their personal information is
already filled in by the college. The University of Portland in Oregon, Ursinus
College in Pennsylvania and the University of Vermont are among those to use
this kind of application.

Washington & Jefferson College, a liberal arts college outside Pittsburgh, began
five years ago to seek more applicants by dropping fees and some requirements,
and searching for high school students relentlessly through an e-mail effort.
The college switched to a two-part application; the first part can take as
little as five minutes to fill out, and in some  cases is counted as a completed
application.

About 1,100 students applied in 2002 to Washington & Jefferson. This year,
nearly 7,400 did. The acceptance rate plummeted, almost in half.

College officials acknowledge that they wanted to go up in the rankings but also
say that increasing the pool of applicants was part of an overall strategy,
along with building new dormitories and a fitness center and adding academic
programs, to help Washington & Jefferson enroll better and more diverse students
and to grow to 1,550 students from 1,100.

''It's worked,'' said Alton E. Newell, the vice president for enrollment. ''My
institution is a better place, a healthier place, a more vibrant place.''

But to many college and university officials, Washington & Jefferson and other
colleges that have engineered huge increases in applicant pools in recent years,
are recruiting vast numbers of students primarily to reject them.

The gambits enable an institution to appear more selective, but it is unclear
that they can significantly affect a ranking. The U.S. News editors argue that a
college's acceptance rate counts for only 1.5 percent of the overall evaluation.
Washington & Jefferson, for instance, has generally stayed in the same ranking
range in the 90s and low 100s among liberal arts colleges. Last year it shared
104th place on the list with several other campuses.

Then again, does all this really measure an education?Mr. Beseda of St. Mary's
said, ''I think what the rankings do is to poison the sense of what a genuine
education is. False gods get worshiped.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert J. Morse, left, head of U.S. News & World Report's
college project, and Brian Kelly, editor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company

                              428 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Chronicle (Centralia, Washington)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 19, 2012 Tuesday

EDITORIAL: Centralia College Deserves Top-in-State Ranking

BYLINE: The Chronicle, Centralia, Wash.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 479 words


June 19--If a student wants to attend and graduate from a comprehensive
community college, there is no better place in Washington (and few better places
in the nation) than Centralia College.

A new ranking that looks at graduation rates finds that Centralia College is
absolute best in the state for comprehensive community colleges. If you attend
Centralia College, you're nearly twice as likely to graduate as students at
two-year colleges elsewhere in the nation.

Another recent independent ranking, this one prepared for CNN, finds that
Centralia College is second in the state and 40th in the nation when it comes to
student success. This is a national ranking, putting Centralia College in the
company of the finest two-year institutions in California, New Mexico, Iowa and
all around the United States.

In summary, Centralia College deserves its not-notch reputation as one of the
finest comprehensive community colleges in the state and nation.

The news comes on the heels of Friday's graduation, which saw about 640 students
receive a degree or certificate. While no official numbers have been kept over
the decades, it's likely that this was the largest graduating class in Centralia
College's long history.

Those students are ready to re-engage (or more deeply engage) in the local and
regional economy with updated skills and fresh energy. During these tough times,
having a solid education, whether it's a classic liberal arts curriculum or
trade-specific training, is crucial.

Through an ongoing expansion, Centralia College is well positioned to serve the
needs of students who are just out of high school or are later in their lives
and looking to upgrade their skills and abilities.

Centralia College has faced budget cuts, as have all colleges and state
agencies. These cuts are difficult but are part of the essential rebalancing of
public finances during lean times.

The college has responded professionally to the difficult choices. There's no
purpose in whining about cuts, and the college's leaders haven't wasted energy
on that kind of unproductive grousing.

Instead, the college has looked at how it can best serve students who need the
mix of practical training and expanded mind that can come with a comprehensive
community college education.

The price of college at a four-year college is rising astronomically. For more
and more families, a solid two-year degree from Centralia College is excellent
preparation for life, whether it be a trade, a white-collar job or entering a
university as a junior, ready to move onward with higher education.

We congratulate Centralia College, its faculty and staff, its leadership and its
students for showing us what high-quality education in a small-town setting can
look like.

___ (c)2012 The Chronicle (Centralia, Wash.) Visit The Chronicle (Centralia,
Wash.) at www.chronline.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120619-1CE-EDITORIAL-Centralia-College-Deserves-Top-in-State-Ranking
-0619-20120619

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1CE


                          Copyright 2012 The Chronicle

                              429 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            October 1, 2015 Thursday

Nine Irish colleges in world's top 5%

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 506 words


Trinity College Dublin remains Ireland s top-ranked institution in the Times
Higher Education World University Rankings, slipping form 138th to 160th place.

University College Dublin (UCD) has returned to the top 200 after dropping out
in the 2014 rankings, and is now just slightly behind Trinity at 176th.

The rankings compare some of the world s 18,000 higher-education institutions on
a range of factors, and has been expanded this year to list the top 800 colleges
instead of the top 400 of previous rankings.

While NUI Galway keeps a place in the top 300, and is joined in the 250-300
banding by Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, University College Cork has
dropped at least 50 places to be banded between 350 and 400.

The expansion of the rankings sees the inclusion of Maynooth University (350 to
400 range), Dublin City University (400-500), University of Limerick (500-600),
and Dublin Institute of Technology (600-800).

The Higher Education Authority chief executive Tom Boland said rankings have to
be taken in context and do not measure everything a university does. However, he
said they cannot be ignored.

It is welcome that this study finds that, out of 18,000 higher education
institutions globally, Ireland s universities, and RCSI and DIT feature in the
top 5% in the world and that UCD and Trinity are in the top 1%.

But the deterioration in funding is a cause for serious concern and, as we see,
it is now being highlighted internationally.

Despite the increasing numbers attending third level, Government non-capital
funding for third-level institutions fell below  1bn last year.

Mr Boland said that, in order to continue to have a world class education and
research system, we need to invest in the people and facilities to make that
happen.

The Trinity dean of research Prof John Boland said a world-class university
required resourcing at internationally competitive levels.  For Trinity to
sustain its position and increase further worldwide, requires sustained
investment in the university sector.

While Trinity s overall ranking fell, it said it improved its reputation for
teaching and research based on a survey of worldwide academics.

The Maynooth University  president Prof Philip Nolan said its highest-ever score
recognised the staff s significant achievements, particularly in the quality and
quantity of research, but such rankings also exposed the challenges faced by all
Irish colleges.

The major weakness revealed in these rankings is that we have fewer people and
less resources to teach our students when compared to leading international
universities,  he said.

A political decision on funding the third-level system, with the possibility of
increasing student fees beyond the current  3,000 figure for undergraduates, is
unlikely ahead of the general election. Education Minister Jan O Sullivan
promised to act on recommendations of a forthcoming expert group report on the
question after she took over the brief last year, but it is now unclear whether
she will even publish it before the end of 2015.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 3, 2017 Tuesday

UB moves up in Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education College Rankings

LENGTH: 677  words



New York: State University of New York at Buffalo has issued the following news
release:
 colleges and universities -- the highest rating of any State University of New
York (SUNY) institution -- according to the 2018 Wall Street Journal/Times
Higher Education College Rankings, unveiled Sept. 27.


Data for the College Rankings, now in their second year, is based partly on
student feedback. The rankings include the results of a student survey, which
gathered the views of more than 200,000 current university students nationwide
in 2016 and 2017 to find out about their engagement with their studies, their
interaction with their teachers and their satisfaction with their experience.
Nationally, UB tied with the University of the Pacific for 117th. It marks a
significant leap for UB, which was No. 147 last year. This year, UB was 24th
among U.S. public universities, up four spots from a year ago. UB received an
overall score of 66.4 points. (Top-ranked Harvard University garnered 91.9
points.)
UB ranked No. 1 among public colleges in New York State, and was 12th overall in
the state, coming in ahead of Stony Brook (17th) and Rochester Institute of
Technology (14th).
UB also fared well compared to its peers in the Association of American
Universities (AAU), placing 21st among AAU public universities and ahead of Penn
State; University of California, Irvine; and Rutgers.
UB officials say the university's upward trajectory in the rankings is
validation of the effort put forth by countless faculty, staff and students to
improve the overall student experience through a variety of programs, such as
the UB Curriculum and Blackstone LaunchPad. The UB Curriculum is the
university's innovative, student-centered approach to general education that
launched in fall 2016. Blackstone LaunchPad at UB is an entrepreneurship program
that supports and mentors students, staff and alumni.
The Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education College Rankings are based on 15
individual performance indicators and constitute a comparative assessment of
more than 1,000 U.S. universities and colleges. The rankings are designed to
give students and their families the information they need to choose where to
study.
The overall methodology explores four key areas: resources, which represents 30
percent of the overall ranking; engagement (20 percent); outcomes (40 percent);
and environment (10 percent).
Resources addresses whether the college has the capacity to effectively deliver
teaching and accounts for student-faculty ratio and research paper productivity
among faculty. UB ranked sixth among public universities nationally and 117th
overall in the Resources category.
Engagement covers how well the college engages with and challenges its students.
The Outcomes category measures the value-added portion of the university,
including its graduation rate, student debt and academic reputation. Environment
captures the essence of what it's like to study at a particular university and
takes into account international student population and diversity of students
and staff.
UB also scored highly on three key questions to which students responded. These
questions were rated on a scale of zero to 10, with 10 representing the
strongest agreement:
    "If you could start over, would you still choose this college?" - 7.47 out
of 10
     "Does your college provide an environment where you feel you are surrounded
by exceptional students who inspire and motivate you?" - 6.99 out of 10
     "Is your college effective in helping you to secure valuable internships
that prepare you for your chosen career?" - 7.21 out of 10
UB's improvement in the Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education rankings
comes a month after U.S. News & World Report released its rankings, in which UB
jumped up two spots to No. 97 nationally and No. 41 in public universities. Over
the past 10 years, UB has risen 24 spots in the national rankings.

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 5, 2016 Friday

Berea College Recognized for Exceptional Financial & Academic Value

LENGTH: 445  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Berea: Berea College has issued the following news release:



  During 2015, several national publications and websites recognized Berea
College for its excellence in academics and as a significant value for students
and their families.





 Commenting of the rankings, Berea College President Lyle Roelofs stated, "We
are gratified that Berea was recognized with strong rankings such as these. Our
current students, alumni and donors also can take pride in knowing the school
they attend and support continues to serve the public good by providing a
high-quality education for talented, low-income students from Appalachia and
beyond."



 A 2016 "Best College Value" by Kiplinger's Personal Finance



 Berea College was named to Kiplinger's Personal Finance's list of the Top 300
Best College Values of 2016. The rankings highlight public schools, private
universities and private liberal arts colleges that combine outstanding
academics with affordable cost. In addition, Kiplinger has ranked the top 100
best values in each category. Berea College is ranked in the top 50 liberal arts
colleges and in the top 100 in Kiplinger's combined list of top schools
nationally.



 Kiplinger assesses value by measurable standards of academic quality and
affordability. Quality measures include the admission rate, the percentage of
students who return for sophomore year, the student-faculty ratio and four-year
graduation rate. Cost criteria include sticker price, financial aid and average
debt at graduation. Berea, like many schools, has been recognized by Kiplinger
multiple times, a testament to the consistent value these particular colleges
provide.



 Janet Bodnar, Editor of Kiplinger's Personal Finance magazine said, "We start
with a universe of 1,200 schools, so each school on our rankings, from number 1
to number 300, is a best value. Families can use the list as a starting point
and then tailor it to each student's preference for such things as size,
location, campus culture and major."



 At Kiplinger.com, visitors have access to the "Find the Best College for You"
tool and other tools that let readers sort by admission rate, average debt at
graduation and other criteria for all schools, plus in-state and out-of-state
cost for public universities. Also online: slide shows of the top 10 schools in
different categories, archives of past years' rankings and an FAQ on the ranking
methodology.



 The complete rankings are available online at Kiplinger.com/links/college and
appear in print in the February 2016 issue of Kiplinger's Personal Finance.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Deming Headlight (New Mexico)

                            October 28, 2016 Friday
                                   1 Edition

NMSU 35th in best value

BYLINE: By, Tiffany Acosta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 211 words


LAS CRUCES - New Mexico State University has been ranked 35th on the Top 50 Best
Value Online Colleges for 2017 by Value Colleges, an independent online guide to
the best values in undergraduate and graduate education.

"We've long known about both the quality education and the affordability we
offer our students," NMSU Chancellor Garrey Carruthers said. "This ranking is
just the latest to recognize the work we are doing at our great university."

The Value Colleges rankings are based on three factors: cost, reputability and
return on investment.

In addition, for the fourth time in the last five years, NMSU has been
recognized as a top tier university and listed on the U.S. News & World Report
Best Colleges for 2017 National Universities rankings. U.S. News & World Report
also ranked NMSU among its Best Graduate Schools 2017.

For the ninth year, Forbes has recognized NMSU as one of America's Top Colleges.
NMSU was named to the 2016 Center for World University Rankings list and was
named one of the 50 most underrated colleges in America by Business Insider. For
the eighth consecutive year, NMSU was named a top military-friendly school by
Victory Media.

For a complete list of the rankings, visit www.valuecolleges.com/rankings/
best-value-online-colleges-2017/

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dnm


                        Copyright 2016 Deming Headlight
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            June 28, 2017 Wednesday

Forbes ranks Elmhurst College among state's best values

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 283 words


Forbes ranks Elmhurst College among state's best values

ELMHURST -- In this year's Forbes magazine rankings of the country's best values
in higher education, Elmhurst College placed ninth among the top 10 schools in
Illinois, and in the top 13 percent of colleges and universities nationally.

The Forbes rankings, called "America's Best Value Colleges 2017: 300 Schools
Worth The Investment," acknowledge that for many students and their families,
the cost of attending a particular four-year college or university is as much of
a deciding factor as the quality. The rankings highlight where prospective
college students can get "the most quality for each tuition dollar spent," and
whether a particular college will deliver a meaningful return on investment.

Forbes' 2017 Best Value College ranking selected 300 schools nationally -- out
of the approximately 2,360 four-year colleges and universities in the U.S. --
that deliver the best bang for the tuition buck. To develop the list, Forbes
used data collected from the U.S. Department of Education's College Scorecard as
well as PayScale, the world's largest salary database. The rankings formula was
based primarily on school quality, alumni midcareer earnings, student debt
levels and on-time graduation success, as well as dropout risk rates and
enrollment figures for Pell Grant recipients.

Only 11 colleges and universities from Illinois made the list. Aside from
Elmhurst, the list included the University of Chicago, Northwestern University,
the University of Illinois (the Urbana-Champaign and Chicago campuses), Loyola
University, Illinois Wesleyan University, DePaul University, Bradley University,
Wheaton College and Illinois State University.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              434 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                The Citizens' Voice (Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 13, 2012 Thursday

Area universities make the grade in college rankings

BYLINE: Peter Cameron, The Citizens' Voice, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 316 words


Sept. 13--The results are in, and they look good for the universities in the
area. Mostly.

U.S. News & World Report became the latest to release its college rankings
Wednesday and all five area schools appear on the magazine's list of top
regional universities in the Northeast.

The University of Scranton, tied for 10th, led all area schools on the list.

King's College is next with a ranking of 44th, followed by Misericordia
University at 47th, Marywood University at 55th and Wilkes University at 75th.

Some of the criteria for establishing the rankings are undergraduate academic
reputation, freshman retention, graduation rates and the strength of the
faculty.

"Most of the data comes from the colleges," the U.S. News website says.

Misericordia and the University of Scranton also appeared on the magazine's list
of "A+ Schools for B students," institutions that "accept a significant number
of students with nonstratospheric transcripts" in the northeastern region.

The Washington Monthly, a news magazine which ranks schools based on categories
such as the social mobility of their students and commitment to service,
recently rated King's first in the area, followed by the University of Scranton,
Marywood, Wilkes and Misericordia.

And all five schools appeared on the Princeton Review's unranked list of the 220
best regional colleges in the Northeast, based on student feedback.

On the negative end, Misericorida and the University of Scranton popped up on
Newsweek's list of least affordable schools, though both criticized the
methodology of the ranking, and Newsweek posted a correction on its website
stating it tabulated the list before it obtained some data from the University
of Scranton.

pcameron@citizensvoice.com, 570-821-2110

___ (c)2012 The Citizens' Voice (Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) Visit The Citizens' Voice
(Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) at citizensvoice.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120913-YC-Area-universities-make-the-grade-in-college-rankings
-0913-20120913

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YC


                       Copyright 2012 The Citizens' Voice

                              435 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   The Times-Tribune (Scranton, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 2, 2008 Saturday

College rankings a mixed bag

BYLINE: Sarah Hofius Hall, The Times-Tribune, Scranton, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 547 words


Aug. 2--The University of Scranton has been consistently ranked as one of the
best schools in the country by magazines and college-prep companies.

Another honor came this week, as Princeton Review named it one of the 368 best
colleges in the country for 2009.

But along with that Princeton ranking came another -- having the least
politically active students in the country.

That ranking surprises college officials, who remember the role the Electric
City played in the Democratic presidential primary this spring, and how
university students attended rallies and were even interviewed by reporters from
around the world.

"We think the campus is engaged," university spokesman Stan Zygmunt said. "I'm
surprised we're on the list."

The top ranking in the "Election? What Election?" category also surprised junior
P.J. Tabit, a political science and philosophy major from West Wyoming in
Luzerne County.

During the primary, a voter- registration drive was held at the university, and
many of Mr. Tabit's friends attended local rallies for Sen. Hillary Clinton and
Sen. Barack Obama.

On nights of the primary elections, Mr. Tabit and his roommates would watch the
results on television.

"People were always discussing the issues," he said.

Princeton Review, well-known for its rankings for the top party schools and
"Stone-Cold Sober Schools," also listed the University of Scranton as ninth in
the "Homogeneous Student Population" category.

That was another surprise to university officials.

"There is diversity on campus. We're making efforts and strides," Mr. Zygmunt
said, noting that the campus's Hispanic population has doubled in the past 10
years.

According to Princeton Review, the campus population is 79 percent Caucasian and
5 percent Hispanic.

In November, "The Hispanic Outlook in Higher Education" named the university as
one of 18 schools in the state and 553 in the U.S. and Puerto Rico where
Hispanic students can "thrive and persist." It was the 10th straight year the
university was listed.

The differences show that people must be cautious when looking at rankings, Mr.
Zygmunt said.

Princeton Review, a New York-based education services company known for its
test-prep courses, ranks schools by student opinion, and 120,000 students at the
368 top colleges were surveyed.

Along with the 368 top schools, Princeton Review recognized the top 632 regional
colleges. Wilkes and Misericordia universities were recognized as two of the top
212 schools in the Northeastern region.

While being on the list for most homogeneous and least politically active
surprises university officials, being ranked in the top 368 by Princeton Review
and other high rankings by similar groups speaks to the quality of education at
Scranton, Mr. Zygmunt said.

"What we look for is more of the consistency in the rankings," he added.

Contact the writer: shofius@timesshamrock.com

To see more of The Times-Tribune or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.thetimes-tribune.com/. Copyright (c) 2008, The Times-Tribune,
Scranton, Pa. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080802-YT-College-rankings-a-mixed-bag-0802

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YT


                                 Copyright 2008

                              436 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Brunswick News (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           December 2, 2017 Saturday

Troy University included in ranking of best colleges for veterans

BYLINE: Lauren McDonald, The Brunswick News, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 333 words


Dec. 02--Troy University received recognition for its service to the military in
the "Military Times" recent ranking of the "Best Colleges 2018."

Troy University, based in Alabama, came in at No. 38 in the ranking. Troy offers
a satellite campus in Brunswick, at 664 Scranton Road.

"We appreciate each service member and each veteran's service to our nation and
we at Troy are proud of our long history of service to the United States
Military," said Lynn Chapman, area coordinator for Troy University, in an email.
"We are honored to be recognized as a 'Best for Vets' college, but most
importantly we are honored that service members and veterans choose Troy and
allow us to serve them in various ways, including scholarships and credit for
military service."

The ranking included 218 colleges and universities and factors in the results of
an annual survey conducted by "Military Times." The survey serves as a
comprehensive school-by-school assessment of veteran and military student
services and rates academic achievement.

More than 600 schools took part in this year's survey.

In the survey, colleges and universities document services, special rules,
financial incentives and accommodations that are offered to students with
military ties and describe aspects of veteran culture on campus.

Troy University has been working with military service members, veterans and
their families since 1950, to help them pursue advanced education under the G.I.
Bill, the Tuition Assistance Program, the MyCAA initiative, private funding and
other financing options.

"We are fortunate to have a very experienced VA Certifying Official, Summer
Rogers, on location here in Brunswick to assist with military-specific needs,"
Chapman said. "Our goal is to help the students reach their academic goals and
we are prepared to guide them through the process."

___ (c)2017 The Brunswick News (Brunswick, Ga.) Visit The Brunswick News
(Brunswick, Ga.) at www.thebrunswicknews.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20171202-GE-Troy-University-included-in-ranking-of-best-colleges
-for-veterans-1202-20171202

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GE


                       Copyright 2017 The Brunswick News

                              437 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                           September 6, 2016 Tuesday

College football rankings: Alabama is No. 1

BYLINE: Berry Tramel

SECTION:

LENGTH: 394 words


[img width="" height="" style="" render="w620"]4429067[/img]In mid-October, the
College Football Playoff committee will start meeting and releasing weekly
rankings. They do that because college football always has been fueled by
rankings. Those rankings won't matter much.

FAO. For Amusement Only.But the committee, despite what we might think of any
particular decision over the last two years, clearly has shown that strength of
schedule matters. It is looking at who you played, where you played and how you
did.So to get fans accustomed to such thinking, I'll rank college football's top
10 each week. These rankings are not a prediction. They are not a projection.
They are based strictly on what a team has done. Who it played, where it played
and how it did.Now, early-season rankings are subject to some assumptions. In
other words, we really don't know if Southern Cal is better than Bowling Green.
Don't really know if Ole Miss is better than Hawaii. But we're pretty sure. And
that's all we have to go on after one week. Each week will bring more data.This
week, this is what the data shows us:1. Alabama: 52-6 over Southern Cal? On a
neutral field in Arlington. Are you kidding me? Will the Bama express ever
slow?2. Florida State: The Seminoles trailed Ole Miss 28-6 in Orlando. And won
45-34. That's impressive. &nbsp;3. Houston: The Cougars' 33-23 victory over OU
at NRG Stadium was close to a blowout. UofH was a yard away from taking a 40-17
lead with four minutes left.4. Wisconsin: Hard to imagine a better
regular-season day in the state of Wisconsin football history. The Badgers knock
off LSU at Lambeau Field.5. Texas: In knocking off Notre Dame in Austin, the
Longhorns looked like they were back. That would be good news for the Big 12.6.
Clemson: Auburn has some issues. Its offense stinks. But still, going to Auburn
on Saturday is not an easy task. Clemson has the best road win so far.7.
Georgia: The Bulldogs beat North Carolina in Atlanta. Good game. UGA should be
rewarded.8. Texas A&amp;M: Aggies and Trevor Knight looked solid in beating UCLA
at Kyle Field.9. Brigham Young: BYU kicked a last-minute field goal to beat
Arizona in Glendale, Ariz., which sounds like a virtual road game but wasn't,
because of 30,000 BYU fans descending into University of Phoenix Stadium.10.
Stanford: The Cardinal was efficient in beating Kansas State.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                           September 6, 2016 Tuesday

College football rankings: Alabama is No. 1

BYLINE: Berry Tramel

SECTION:

LENGTH: 394 words


[img width="" height="" style="" render="w620"]4429067[/img]In mid-October, the
College Football Playoff committee will start meeting and releasing weekly
rankings. They do that because college football always has been fueled by
rankings. Those rankings won't matter much.

FAO. For Amusement Only.But the committee, despite what we might think of any
particular decision over the last two years, clearly has shown that strength of
schedule matters. It is looking at who you played, where you played and how you
did.So to get fans accustomed to such thinking, I'll rank college football's top
10 each week. These rankings are not a prediction. They are not a projection.
They are based strictly on what a team has done. Who it played, where it played
and how it did.Now, early-season rankings are subject to some assumptions. In
other words, we really don't know if Southern Cal is better than Bowling Green.
Don't really know if Ole Miss is better than Hawaii. But we're pretty sure. And
that's all we have to go on after one week. Each week will bring more data.This
week, this is what the data shows us:1. Alabama: 52-6 over Southern Cal? On a
neutral field in Arlington. Are you kidding me? Will the Bama express ever
slow?2. Florida State: The Seminoles trailed Ole Miss 28-6 in Orlando. And won
45-34. That's impressive. &nbsp;3. Houston: The Cougars' 33-23 victory over OU
at NRG Stadium was close to a blowout. UofH was a yard away from taking a 40-17
lead with four minutes left.4. Wisconsin: Hard to imagine a better
regular-season day in the state of Wisconsin football history. The Badgers knock
off LSU at Lambeau Field.5. Texas: In knocking off Notre Dame in Austin, the
Longhorns looked like they were back. That would be good news for the Big 12.6.
Clemson: Auburn has some issues. Its offense stinks. But still, going to Auburn
on Saturday is not an easy task. Clemson has the best road win so far.7.
Georgia: The Bulldogs beat North Carolina in Atlanta. Good game. UGA should be
rewarded.8. Texas A&amp;M: Aggies and Trevor Knight looked solid in beating UCLA
at Kyle Field.9. Brigham Young: BYU kicked a last-minute field goal to beat
Arizona in Glendale, Ariz., which sounds like a virtual road game but wasn't,
because of 30,000 BYU fans descending into University of Phoenix Stadium.10.
Stanford: The Cardinal was efficient in beating Kansas State.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             June 11, 2016 Saturday

Maharashtra: Cut-offs likely to be 180 in state medical colleges: DMER

BYLINE: alifiya khan

LENGTH: 444  words

DATELINE: Pune


Even as the state merit list rankings for admission to health courses was
finally declared by the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) on
June 10, students were disappointed as the trend clearly indicated higher
cut-offs for admissions to state-run government medical colleges.

The DMER authorities peg the cut-off to government medical colleges for open
category candidates at 180, whereas the same last year was around 173. The
higher cut-off is being attributed to an easy MHT-CET paper, which enabled many
students across the state to score high marks in the entrance exam.

DMER director Dr Pravin Shingare said that the likely cut-off score for
admissions into the government medical colleges is likely to be 180 or 179 for
students in the open category, keeping in mind the number of seats available and
rankings according to the state merit list. "Our admissions are never on the
basis of marks, but based on the state merit list rankings. Hence, for those
students who have ranked above 1,400, can get a seat in the government medical
colleges in open category. Looking at the state merit list rankings, it is
obvious that the students with score above 179 fit into that category," he said.

Meanwhile, experts said that students are disappointed since the cut-off marks
has increased.

"A student with a score of 180 would have got a rank below 1,000 and could have
got admission into a good government medical college. But this year, the same
student is scoring a rank above 1,200, which means he/she will get admissions
but not necessarily in a nearby college. This year, owing to an easy exam, many
students have scored high marks and hence, overall rankings have got affected,"
said Harish Butle, founder of DEEPER, that conducts mock entrance tests.

Another important factor to consider is that compared to last year, seats
available for admissions through MHT-CET are lesser since this year, only 2,810
seats of government medical colleges are available for admissions while seats of
private medical colleges are no longer part of MHT-CET admission process.

Tutor Sandeep Deodhar pointed out how students with a score below 179 in his
classes are being advised for preparing for NEET 2 to ensure they get admission
in a government medical college that is now unlikely through MHT-CET rankings.
"I have a student with 181 score and while it is sure that with his ranking of
1,164, he would get into a government medical college but since he was aiming
for BJ Medical College, it is not sure if he will get in with the ranking. So he
will appear for NEET 2 to try to get a good score and get into the college
through All India quota now," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                 The Times Leader (Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           September 12, 2017 Tuesday

Area colleges, universities nab spots on national ranking lists

BYLINE: Mark Guydish, The Times Leader, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 633 words


Sept. 12--All area four-year institutions of higher education found a home
somewhere in the annual U.S. News & World Report college rankings released
Tuesday, though the University of Scranton may have earned local bragging
rights.

College rankings border on the ubiquitous these days, but the U.S. News ratings
remain among the most popular, likely because they were among the earliest in
what became a rapidly growing trend of releasing such lists in the past decade.

Wading through the rankings can be daunting. The website boasts "nearly 50
different types of numerical rankings and lists to help students narrow their
college search."

The big list is "National Universities" that offer a full range of undergraduate
and graduate degrees while doing extensive research. The top schools on that
list are names that nearly everyone knows: Princeton first and Harvard second.
Yale came in fourth behind the University of Chicago, preventing an Ivy League
trifecta.

Local schools were most likely to appear on the "Regional Universities North"
list. Among 196 institutions, the University of Scranton hit sixth, Misericordia
University landed at 41st, Marywood University at 56th, King's College at 62nd,
Wilkes University at 78th, and Bloomsburg University at 102nd.

U.S. News deemed 50 institutions as "Best Colleges for Veterans," with
Misericordia getting highest local honors at 23rd. Marywood was 34th and Wilkes
was 42nd.

The University of Scranton also grabbed the top local ranking on the "Best Value
Schools" list, which included 84 institutions. "The U" came in at 18th, with
Misericordia at 24th, Marywood at 31st, King's at 35th and Wilkes at 43rd.

The University of Scranton and Wilkes University both made it onto a list of 200
schools with the best engineering programs, no doctorate. Scranton was 134th,
Wilkes was 169th.

Local schools routinely boast a bit about these and other rankings. A
Misericordia media release noted the school has risen 26 places since 2007.
President Thomas Botzman said the university is grateful for the national
recognition.

But local officials also routinely point out what they contend are shortcomings
in the methodology. Misericordia renewed past criticism that the U.S. News
system rewards larger schools simply for being better known:

"For smaller regional institutions like Misericordia University, name
recognition plays a negative factor in the rankings. Of the overall score, 22.5
percent is from peer reviews -- surveys of other college presidents, academic
deans and admissions counselors. Many are located far outside the region and
might not know Misericordia as well as they should."

Statements from both Misericordia and Wilkes argued that specific data from
institutions can tell a more accurate story than overall ratings.

"More important data elements, such as graduation rate (74 percent), classes
under 20 (46 percent), student-faculty ratio (11 to 1) and alumni giving rate
(16 percent), for example, have Misericordia matching or exceeding other highly
ranked colleges and universities," the Misericordia release said.

The Wilkes release noted this about its enrollment: 51 percent are
first-generation students; 35 percent received Federal PELL Grants and 49
percent get state grants; and 15 percent are expected to get no family financial
contribution to their school costs. Such statistics can impact college
preparedness, the release noted.

"Wilkes is proud to educate students from all socioeconomic backgrounds because
we believe that talent is everywhere, and it is our duty as educators to help
students find, develop, and unleash it," President Patrick Leahy said in the
release.

___ (c)2017 The Times Leader (Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) Visit The Times Leader
(Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) at www.timesleader.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170912-WB-Area-colleges-universities-nab-spots-on-national-ranking
-lists-0912-20170912

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WB


                        Copyright 2017 The Times Leader

                              441 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 22, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Want a Better Guide to Colleges? So Do Colleges

BYLINE: Daniel J. Levin

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 1627 words


Watch what will happen now that U.S. News & World Report has issued its latest
annual rankings of undergraduate colleges and universities: Indignant college
presidents will continue to denounce the process as fatuous and devoid of
legitimacy. Institutions that fared well will issue press releases and place
banners on their Web sites trumpeting the recognition. And high school students
and their families -- mostly the wealthier ones looking to attend top
universities -- will scoop up copies of the magazine and guidebook looking for
clues about where to apply.

Clearly, however, many in academe are frustrated by the magazine's impact on the
public and by the competitive forces it has unleashed on institutions. Some of
them are doing something about it, by developing and encouraging other methods
of assessment. Parents, students and complaining college administrators should
do everything they can to spur that movement along.

Many higher education officials acknowledge that the rankings subtly and overtly
influence the policies and practices of their colleges and universities. Of 241
college and university presidents who responded to a survey my organization
conducted, more than half said their institutions had implemented specific
measures to improve their ranking. An extreme example is Virginia Commonwealth
University, where officials have adopted a strategic plan that states the
school's number one priority is to move from Tier 3 to Tier 2 in the U.S. News'
lists of schools that follow its top 50 national universities.

After studying factors that influence the rankings, some institutions have
dropped the SAT as an admissions requirement, accepted more students in
early-decision programs or offered more financial aid on the basis of merit --
usually at the expense of aid for needy students. Such decisions generally
enable colleges to enroll greater numbers of higher-achieving students, which
may lead to a higher ranking but also can lead to questions about who gets in,
why, and with how much financial aid.

The institutions that responded to our survey said they had focused mainly on
student-retention rates, student-graduation rates and faculty compensation
(significant factors in the rankings calculation), as well as on SAT scores of
incoming freshmen and the rate of alumni donations (relatively small factors).

Are these savvy steps aimed at improving important measures of performance or a
case of the tail wagging the dog? Are institutions diverting money from
classrooms to efforts to influence their ranking? (VCU officials say their plan
may end up costing $ 400,000.) Do the rankings create a perverse incentive to
spend more when it may make sense to hold the line on costs? For some
institutions -- but by no means all -- the answer to these questions is yes.

Consider colleges' efforts to influence the "peer-assessment survey." Each year,
U.S. News sends questionnaires to about 4,000 presidents, provosts and
admissions directors to determine their perceptions of the undergraduate
educational experience at "peer" institutions. This survey -- until this year it
was known as the "academic-reputation survey" -- accounts for 25 percent of a
college's score, the largest single criterion in the rankings. Because of the
difficulty of significantly changing other indicators that U.S. News measures,
some officials believe their best shot at altering the algebra of the rankings
is to influence the peer assessments. To do so, they hire consultants who advise
them to run costly, aggressive direct-mail campaigns aimed at officials of other
academic institutions. These campaigns are designed to attract attention to
newsworthy events -- such as the creation of a new academic program or an
upcoming campus appearance by a renowned speaker -- in hopes that those who
answer the survey will be impressed by these developments and grade the college
higher. No one can prove that such marketing efforts work, but the practice is
fairly common.

In another example of questionable spending, some institutions looking to attain
or maintain a high ranking learn that controlling faculty salaries and
educational expenditures per student -- perhaps the right prescription for a
college seeking to tame tuition increases -- may jeopardize their ranking and
thus their ability to attract the best applicants. This especially galls those
who say the rankings emphasize "inputs" (money spent on faculty salaries and the
class rank of incoming freshmen, for example) at the expense of "outcomes" (how
well students learn and professors teach).

Not everything U.S. News measures causes concern. Indeed, many in higher
education acknowledge that the rankings incorporate some important indicators of
institutional quality and performance. Nor are higher education officials wrong
to pursue changes when the rankings reveal an institution's shortcomings.
Improving student graduation and retention rates, for example, are laudable
objectives, and increasing the number of alumni who donate money is crucial for
most schools. What most infuriates higher education officials is the idea of any
formula that purports to measure overall institutional quality by combining
disparate indicators into a ranking system, especially a ranking system in which
schools' positions may vary from year to year based on changes in how the survey
is conducted.

There's little question that the U.S. News rankings can be helpful to students
and families who use them appropriately -- as one tool among several in
searching for the college that best fits their needs. But as they do so,
students and parents also need to demand better ways of judging whether the
schools they're considering are delivering on the promise of providing
high-quality teaching and a good learning experience.

Most colleges and universities are trying to figure out how to conduct
assessments themselves. They collect information and share various data with
peer institutions, but such efforts at assessing academic effectiveness
generally have not been geared toward public consumption. Various national
surveys and assessment instruments have existed for a long time in higher
education, but only recently have a few emerged that were spurred specifically
by the U.S. News rankings. Most prominent is the National Survey of Student
Engagement (NSSE -- pronounced "Nessie"), which last spring evaluated 367
institutions (in contrast to the U.S. News rankings of 1,400 schools).

NSSE asks first-year students and seniors how they actually use the resources
for learning their school provides. The survey questions are built around five
benchmarks of effective educational practice:

* The level of academic challenge -- time spent preparing for class, amount of
reading and writing, and institutional expectations for student performance;

* Active and collaborative learning -- participating in class, working
collaboratively with other students both in and out of class, tutoring and so
forth;

* Student interaction with faculty -- amount of time talking with faculty
members and advisers outside of class, getting prompt feedback on academic
performance and working with a faculty member on a research project;

* Enriching educational experiences -- talking with students of different racial
or ethnic backgrounds or with varying political opinions; using electronic
technology; and participating in internships, community service, study abroad or
a culminating senior experience; and

* A supportive environment -- the extent to which students perceive the school
helps them to succeed academically and socially, assists them in coping with
nonacademic responsibilities and promotes supportive relations between students,
faculty and administrators.

The people who conduct NSSE are wrestling with several issues, including: the
reliability of student-generated data; the validity of the benchmarks; whether
to release the names and results of participating institutions (it now does so
only with a school's permission, which means that only schools that do well tend
to publicize their results, or even the fact that they have participated in the
survey); and some schools' reluctance to participate (the highest-ranking
institutions in the U.S. News survey do not want to be a part of NSSE because
they fear they will not compare favorably with the small liberal arts colleges
that have generated the best results).

NSSE never will be a true alternative to the U.S. News survey because its
officials do not intend to rank participants. Nevertheless, as NSSE expands its
base of participating institutions, it may represent the best opportunity for
consumers to obtain "outcomes based" information about colleges and
universities, and it may become a valuable tool to be used in conjunction with
the ratings.

Parents and students shopping for colleges should ask academic officials whether
their students have taken the survey and whether the results will be released.
Meanwhile, elected officials, employers and taxpayers demanding greater
accountability for results in higher education should be watching and
encouraging NSSE and other emerging efforts at authentic assessment of academic
success.

In the end, assuming that gauging where one educational institution stands
compared with its peers remains a worthy goal, colleges and universities will
need to find their own creative ways to assess student learning and provide the
results effectively to the public. On this difficult matter, higher education
has much ground to cover, but perhaps it is starting along the right path.

</body>Daniel Levin is vice president for publications and editor of Trusteeship
Magazine for the Association of Governing Boards of Universities and Colleges in
Washington.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post

                              442 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday

Varsity placed among 100-150 in national rankings

BYLINE: Vaibhav Ganjapure

SECTION: NAGPUR

LENGTH: 530 words


NAGPUR: Nagpur University figured between 100th and 150th position in the
rankings of universities declared by 'National Institutional Ranking Framework'
on Monday.Though not in overall list of institutions, NU's name figured among
top 150 in the list of traditional universities topped by the 'Indian Institute
of Science (IIS), Bangalore'. Interestingly, Mumbai University also found its
name in the same list of 100-150, just 11 places above NU, along with Dr
Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University in Aurangabad and North Maharashtra
University in Jalgaon.The participating institutions were measured on various
parameters like faculties, placements, infrastructure and facilities, patents
and earnings through them, and projects among others. Last year, NU failed to
participate in the ranking process as officials miserably failed to send the
data in time to NIRF office. In next few years, many from city may found their
places in the top 150 with national-level institutions like IIM, IIIT, MNLU, and
others, already started their operations.

Only Pune University among traditional ones in Maharashtra featured into top ten
in the university segment and on 18th position in overall rankings. However,
colleges like Ramdeobaba College of Engineering and Management (RCOEM) and GH
Raisoni College of Engineering (GHRCE) have brought laurels for the city by
figuring at 64th and 67th positions respectively in the engineering and
technology section. However, highest ranking among city based institutions, in
this section, is achieved by Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology
(VNIT), which is positioned at 42nd number.Overall, there is not a single
institution from the city figuring in top 100, but GHRCE, RCOEM and VNIT are
among institutions between 100 and 150.The pharmacy colleges affiliated to NU
have fared exceptionally well in the pharma segment with as many three figuring
among top 50. Kamptee-based Kishoritai Bhoyar College of Pharmacy (KBCP) is at
34th rank, followed by Wardha-based Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and
Research (IPER) at 45th, and city-based Guru Nanak College of Pharmacy (GNCP) at
49th."We are far better placed than expected and we would continue to improve
our position in overall rankings. Out of about 370 universities, NU's rank is
between 100-150, which means it's doing good. Even other big universities like
Mumbai and Marathwada are in same list, an elated vice chancellor SP Kane told
TOI.He added that if only traditional universities were taken into account, NU
would figure among top 50 and they were satisfied with the ranking.Though
Tirpude Institute of Management Education director Lalit Khullar admitted that
NU needed improvement in all sectors, he said the parameters on which the
rankings were based were skewed. "They (NIRF) never informed anyone about
parameters on which rankings were based. At least the colleges should have
prepared themselves. Resultantly, only private colleges dominated all lists."He
said NU had done well in last couple of years and would improve its position in
next couple of years due to slew reforms initiated by the new administration.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday
                                Chennai Edition

COURSE CORRECTION - Experts: List of 'surprises' will help students, colleges

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 359 words


The new national ranking released on Monday widens the choice for students,
career counsellors said as they welcomed the list. The ranking, it is felt, can
also help colleges improve their academic performance and facilities since the
parameters measured are on the lines of what global rankings use. Only a handful
of Indian institutes make it to international lists.

This listing for higher educational institutes compiled by the Union HRD
ministry allows students and parents to make a more informed choice, including
as it does some \x93surprises\x93. Counsellor Usha Albuquerque said the list has
thrown up certain names not known to be among the \x93best\x93, and gives
students and parents

a fairer idea of their choices beside the top 10 colleges. \x93 A college like
Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma (in Delhi) is not considered among the top but has still
landed a very good rank. A majority of students go to the second lot of
institutes (other than the top 10), and want to know the quality of education in
their institutes of interest,\x93 she said.

She added the NAAC ranking used so far also does not include all colleges.
\x93Until now we'd depend on the NAAC rankings. But several colleges are left
out of that too. This list certainly helps, though more institutes must come
forward and get themselves ranked if they find the process just and
transparent.\x93 Counsellor Per

vin Malhotra said the ranking being \x93institute-based, rather than
perception-based\x93 is a step forward. \x93Commercial rankings are not the only
feature that must be taken in consideration while choosing a college. This
ranking lists various parameters like research, which is very low in India.\x93

Malhotra said the list will also help improve quality of education as it
measures institutions on parameters used in global rankings. \x93This list will
help and communicate with the institutes on what they lack and where exactly
they stand in terms of quality . Indian institutes have ranked very low on
several lists because their parameters are different.The HRD ministry list takes
some of those parameters in view, and will help Indian institutes move up,\x93
she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday
                                 Mumbai Edition

COURSE CORRECTION - Experts: List of 'surprises' will help students, colleges

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 359 words


The new national ranking released on Monday widens the choice for students,
career counsellors said as they welcomed the list. The ranking, it is felt, can
also help colleges improve their academic performance and facilities since the
parameters measured are on the lines of what global rankings use. Only a handful
of Indian institutes make it to international lists.

This listing for higher educational institutes compiled by the Union HRD
ministry allows students and parents to make a more informed choice, including
as it does some \x93surprises\x93. Counsellor Usha Albuquerque said the list has
thrown up certain names not known to be among the \x93best\x93, and gives
students and parents

a fairer idea of their choices beside the top 10 colleges. \x93 A college like
Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma (in Delhi) is not considered among the top but has still
landed a very good rank. A majority of students go to the second lot of
institutes (other than the top 10), and want to know the quality of education in
their institutes of interest,\x93 she said.

She added the NAAC ranking used so far also does not include all colleges.
\x93Until now we'd depend on the NAAC rankings. But several colleges are left
out of that too. This list certainly helps, though more institutes must come
forward and get themselves ranked if they find the process just and
transparent.\x93 Counsellor Per

vin Malhotra said the ranking being \x93institute-based, rather than
perception-based\x93 is a step forward. \x93Commercial rankings are not the only
feature that must be taken in consideration while choosing a college. This
ranking lists various parameters like research, which is very low in India.\x93

Malhotra said the list will also help improve quality of education as it
measures institutions on parameters used in global rankings. \x93This list will
help and communicate with the institutes on what they lack and where exactly
they stand in terms of quality . Indian institutes have ranked very low on
several lists because their parameters are different.The HRD ministry list takes
some of those parameters in view, and will help Indian institutes move up,\x93
she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday
                                 Delhi Edition

COURSE CORRECTION - Experts: List of 'surprises' will help students, colleges

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 359 words


The new national ranking released on Monday widens the choice for students,
career counsellors said as they welcomed the list. The ranking, it is felt, can
also help colleges improve their academic performance and facilities since the
parameters measured are on the lines of what global rankings use. Only a handful
of Indian institutes make it to international lists.

This listing for higher educational institutes compiled by the Union HRD
ministry allows students and parents to make a more informed choice, including
as it does some \x93surprises\x93. Counsellor Usha Albuquerque said the list has
thrown up certain names not known to be among the \x93best\x93, and gives
students and parents

a fairer idea of their choices beside the top 10 colleges. \x93 A college like
Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma (in Delhi) is not considered among the top but has still
landed a very good rank. A majority of students go to the second lot of
institutes (other than the top 10), and want to know the quality of education in
their institutes of interest,\x93 she said.

She added the NAAC ranking used so far also does not include all colleges.
\x93Until now we'd depend on the NAAC rankings. But several colleges are left
out of that too. This list certainly helps, though more institutes must come
forward and get themselves ranked if they find the process just and
transparent.\x93 Counsellor Per

vin Malhotra said the ranking being \x93institute-based, rather than
perception-based\x93 is a step forward. \x93Commercial rankings are not the only
feature that must be taken in consideration while choosing a college. This
ranking lists various parameters like research, which is very low in India.\x93

Malhotra said the list will also help improve quality of education as it
measures institutions on parameters used in global rankings. \x93This list will
help and communicate with the institutes on what they lack and where exactly
they stand in terms of quality . Indian institutes have ranked very low on
several lists because their parameters are different.The HRD ministry list takes
some of those parameters in view, and will help Indian institutes move up,\x93
she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday
                                 Jaipur Edition

COURSE CORRECTION - Experts: List of 'surprises' will help students, colleges

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 359 words


The new national ranking released on Monday widens the choice for students,
career counsellors said as they welcomed the list. The ranking, it is felt, can
also help colleges improve their academic performance and facilities since the
parameters measured are on the lines of what global rankings use. Only a handful
of Indian institutes make it to international lists.

This listing for higher educational institutes compiled by the Union HRD
ministry allows students and parents to make a more informed choice, including
as it does some \x93surprises\x93. Counsellor Usha Albuquerque said the list has
thrown up certain names not known to be among the \x93best\x93, and gives
students and parents

a fairer idea of their choices beside the top 10 colleges. \x93 A college like
Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma (in Delhi) is not considered among the top but has still
landed a very good rank. A majority of students go to the second lot of
institutes (other than the top 10), and want to know the quality of education in
their institutes of interest,\x93 she said.

She added the NAAC ranking used so far also does not include all colleges.
\x93Until now we'd depend on the NAAC rankings. But several colleges are left
out of that too. This list certainly helps, though more institutes must come
forward and get themselves ranked if they find the process just and
transparent.\x93 Counsellor Per

vin Malhotra said the ranking being \x93institute-based, rather than
perception-based\x93 is a step forward. \x93Commercial rankings are not the only
feature that must be taken in consideration while choosing a college. This
ranking lists various parameters like research, which is very low in India.\x93

Malhotra said the list will also help improve quality of education as it
measures institutions on parameters used in global rankings. \x93This list will
help and communicate with the institutes on what they lack and where exactly
they stand in terms of quality . Indian institutes have ranked very low on
several lists because their parameters are different.The HRD ministry list takes
some of those parameters in view, and will help Indian institutes move up,\x93
she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday
                               Bangalore Edition

COURSE CORRECTION - Experts: List of 'surprises' will help students, colleges

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 359 words


The new national ranking released on Monday widens the choice for students,
career counsellors said as they welcomed the list. The ranking, it is felt, can
also help colleges improve their academic performance and facilities since the
parameters measured are on the lines of what global rankings use. Only a handful
of Indian institutes make it to international lists.

This listing for higher educational institutes compiled by the Union HRD
ministry allows students and parents to make a more informed choice, including
as it does some \x93surprises\x93. Counsellor Usha Albuquerque said the list has
thrown up certain names not known to be among the \x93best\x93, and gives
students and parents

a fairer idea of their choices beside the top 10 colleges. \x93 A college like
Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma (in Delhi) is not considered among the top but has still
landed a very good rank. A majority of students go to the second lot of
institutes (other than the top 10), and want to know the quality of education in
their institutes of interest,\x93 she said.

She added the NAAC ranking used so far also does not include all colleges.
\x93Until now we'd depend on the NAAC rankings. But several colleges are left
out of that too. This list certainly helps, though more institutes must come
forward and get themselves ranked if they find the process just and
transparent.\x93 Counsellor Per

vin Malhotra said the ranking being \x93institute-based, rather than
perception-based\x93 is a step forward. \x93Commercial rankings are not the only
feature that must be taken in consideration while choosing a college. This
ranking lists various parameters like research, which is very low in India.\x93

Malhotra said the list will also help improve quality of education as it
measures institutions on parameters used in global rankings. \x93This list will
help and communicate with the institutes on what they lack and where exactly
they stand in terms of quality . Indian institutes have ranked very low on
several lists because their parameters are different.The HRD ministry list takes
some of those parameters in view, and will help Indian institutes move up,\x93
she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday
                                  Pune Edition

COURSE CORRECTION - Experts: List of 'surprises' will help students, colleges

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 359 words


The new national ranking released on Monday widens the choice for students,
career counsellors said as they welcomed the list. The ranking, it is felt, can
also help colleges improve their academic performance and facilities since the
parameters measured are on the lines of what global rankings use. Only a handful
of Indian institutes make it to international lists.

This listing for higher educational institutes compiled by the Union HRD
ministry allows students and parents to make a more informed choice, including
as it does some \x93surprises\x93. Counsellor Usha Albuquerque said the list has
thrown up certain names not known to be among the \x93best\x93, and gives
students and parents

a fairer idea of their choices beside the top 10 colleges. \x93 A college like
Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma (in Delhi) is not considered among the top but has still
landed a very good rank. A majority of students go to the second lot of
institutes (other than the top 10), and want to know the quality of education in
their institutes of interest,\x93 she said.

She added the NAAC ranking used so far also does not include all colleges.
\x93Until now we'd depend on the NAAC rankings. But several colleges are left
out of that too. This list certainly helps, though more institutes must come
forward and get themselves ranked if they find the process just and
transparent.\x93 Counsellor Per

vin Malhotra said the ranking being \x93institute-based, rather than
perception-based\x93 is a step forward. \x93Commercial rankings are not the only
feature that must be taken in consideration while choosing a college. This
ranking lists various parameters like research, which is very low in India.\x93

Malhotra said the list will also help improve quality of education as it
measures institutions on parameters used in global rankings. \x93This list will
help and communicate with the institutes on what they lack and where exactly
they stand in terms of quality . Indian institutes have ranked very low on
several lists because their parameters are different.The HRD ministry list takes
some of those parameters in view, and will help Indian institutes move up,\x93
she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday
                               Ahmedabad Edition

COURSE CORRECTION - Experts: List of 'surprises' will help students, colleges

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 359 words


The new national ranking released on Monday widens the choice for students,
career counsellors said as they welcomed the list. The ranking, it is felt, can
also help colleges improve their academic performance and facilities since the
parameters measured are on the lines of what global rankings use. Only a handful
of Indian institutes make it to international lists.

This listing for higher educational institutes compiled by the Union HRD
ministry allows students and parents to make a more informed choice, including
as it does some \x93surprises\x93. Counsellor Usha Albuquerque said the list has
thrown up certain names not known to be among the \x93best\x93, and gives
students and parents

a fairer idea of their choices beside the top 10 colleges. \x93 A college like
Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma (in Delhi) is not considered among the top but has still
landed a very good rank. A majority of students go to the second lot of
institutes (other than the top 10), and want to know the quality of education in
their institutes of interest,\x93 she said.

She added the NAAC ranking used so far also does not include all colleges.
\x93Until now we'd depend on the NAAC rankings. But several colleges are left
out of that too. This list certainly helps, though more institutes must come
forward and get themselves ranked if they find the process just and
transparent.\x93 Counsellor Per

vin Malhotra said the ranking being \x93institute-based, rather than
perception-based\x93 is a step forward. \x93Commercial rankings are not the only
feature that must be taken in consideration while choosing a college. This
ranking lists various parameters like research, which is very low in India.\x93

Malhotra said the list will also help improve quality of education as it
measures institutions on parameters used in global rankings. \x93This list will
help and communicate with the institutes on what they lack and where exactly
they stand in terms of quality . Indian institutes have ranked very low on
several lists because their parameters are different.The HRD ministry list takes
some of those parameters in view, and will help Indian institutes move up,\x93
she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Financial Express

                              April 3, 2017 Monday

NIRF India Ranking List 2017: IIS Bangalore tops, IIT Madras follows, here are
the top 10 colleges in India;
NIRF Ranking 2017: The National Institutional Ranking Framework Ranking 2017 for
Indian Universities was released today by the Ministry of Human Resource
Development (MHRD). The post NIRF India Ranking List 2017: IIS Bangalore tops,
IIT Madras follows,...

BYLINE: FE Online

LENGTH: 348  words


NIRF Ranking 2017: The National Institutional Ranking Framework Ranking 2017 for
Indian Universities was released today by the Ministry of Human Resource
Development (MHRD).

The National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) Ranking 2017 for Indian
Universities was released today by the Ministry of Human Resource Development
(MHRD). Union HRD Minister Prakash Javadekar unveiled the list at a press
conference in the Press Information Bureau (PIB) Conference Hall, Shastri
Bhawan. From the current academic year 2017-18, more funds and grants will be
made available for those institutions that have been ranked higher.

Here is the (overall) list of top 10 Indian Institutions in the country-

1. Indian Institute of Science Bangalore

2. Indian Institute of Technology Madras

3. Indian Institute of Technology Bombay

4. Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur

5. Indian Institute of Technology Delhi

6. Jawaharlal Nehru University

7. Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur

8. Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati

9. Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee

10. Banaras Hindu University (BHU)

At the time of the release, HRD Minister said that the rankings have been based
on 20 parameters, which would be very useful to the stakeholders. He further
informed that regional diversity, gender equity, the inclusion of disadvantaged
sections were among some of the specific parameters in the India Rankings 2017.
Javadekar told the media that the India Rankings 2017 would be used to improve
the educational institutions of the country. According to the HRD ministry,
nearly 705 of the research output in the country came from these institutions,
while the top 100 academic institutions of the country accounted for nearly 80%
of the output.

Take a look at the other top 3 rankings-

Top 3 colleges:

1. Miranda House, Delhi

2. Loyola College, Chennai

3. Shri Ram College of Commerce, Delhi

Top 3 Pharma institutions:

1. Jamia Hamdard, Delhi

2. National Institute of Pharma Education & Research, Mohali

3. Uty. Inst. of Pharm. Sciences, Chandigarh

Top 3 Universities:

1. IISc, Bangalore

2. JNU, New Delhi

3. BHU, Varanasi

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2017 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday

NIRF exposes Quality Teaching, Research, Professionalism claims of J&K's top
educational institutes

LENGTH: 1084 words

DATELINE: Jammu


Jammu, April 5 -- National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) of Human
Resource Development Ministry had badly exposed the tall claims of the Quality
Teaching, Research Work, Learning and Professional Practice by both private as
well as government funded Universities, Engineering and Degree Colleges of the
state.

It has created an environment wherein Minister for Education Syed Altaf Bukhari
should immediately order quality audit of all the colleges and universities to
find out why neither any university nor a college of Jammu and Kashmir is among
the overall top 100 educational institutes of the country. He should not let the
downward slide to continue. And the soothsayers should remember that NIRF is an
independent body and not an extension of Early Times Newspaper.

Though Kashmir region is disturbed due to militancy and weather vagaries but
Jammu region, which is relatively peaceful and where working days are far
higher, has failed miserably to maintain standards which could place either a
college or a University among top 100 institutes of the country. More shocking
is the fact that 24 Degree Colleges both private as well as government, four
management institutes and four Engineering Colleges had participated in the
National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) of the Union Ministry of Human
Resource Development (MHRD) yet none could figure among the top 100 in the
country.

Of the five Universities namely University of Jammu (JU), University of Kashmir
(KU), Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University (SMVDU) Katra, Central University (CU)
Jammu and Central University (CU) Kashmir which had participated in the ranking
to know where they stand in the country, none has figured in the overall list of
the top ranking institutes of the country. In the overall category, Jammu
University is at 146th rank while Kashmir University has been ranked 147th.

It is only in the Universities category that University of Jammu has been placed
at 63rd rank while University of Kashmir has got 73rd rank among the top
universities of the country. While the 73rd rank in the country and 2nd in the
state among the 5 Universities of the which participated in the ranking may be
an achievement for Kashmir University but a step up from where Jammu University
was in the year 2016 is neither any achievement for the University nor for the
state government.

The secretly operating Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University (SMVDU) Katra whose
control is with Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board (SMVDSB) which has
effectively stonewalled all RTI applications so far has failed to make a mark
among the top Universities of the country. It is ranked 139 among the top
Universities of the country. However, in the year 2016; SMVDU was ranked 80th
best university in the country with 52.38 points. It had then managed to get
placed at 49th rank in terms of its performance in the field of Teaching,
Learning and Research (TLR).

SMVDU had then managed 41st position in the Research and Profe

Disturbing revelation

Though Kashmir region is disturbed due to militancy and weather vagaries but
Jammu region, which is relatively peaceful and where working days are far
higher, has failed miserably to maintain standards which could place either a
college or a University among top 100 institutes of the country.

ssional Practice (RPC), 164th in Graduation outcomes (GO), 189th in Outreach and
Inclusivity and 78th in Perception (PER). However, the university failed to make
a mark this year since the competition had increased and more universities had
participated in the process. Despite functioning in disturbed environment with
heavy loss of working days during the last one year, University of Kashmir
replaced SMVDU among top 100 universities in the country.

Central University of Kashmir (CUK) has been ranked 106th while SMVDU is 139th
followed by Central University of Jammu (CUJ) which has managed a ranking of
155th among the top Universities of the country. Engineering College of SMVDU
has been ranked 146th in the Country while its management college has got 96th
position in the country. Of the 4 Engineering and Management Colleges that had
participated in the ranking, SMVDU has emerged as number 1 choice of the NIRF.

Famed and much talked about management schools of University of Jammu, Central
University of Jammu and Model Institute of Engineering and Technology (MIET)
Jammu failed to make a mark. They figured nowhere among the top 100 institutes
management schools of the country.

This is despite the fact that those heading these schools in the respective
institution keep updating their Facebook status from all over the world. The
Engineering College of SMVDU figured among the top 200 leaving behind Government
College of Engineering & Technology (GCET) Jammu, Model Institute of Engineering
and Technology (MIET) Jammu and National Institute of Technology (NIT) Srinagar.
SMVDU took the place of National Institute of Technology (NIT) Srinagar which
had been ranked 67th in the country in the 2016 rankings with 55.30 points.

Among the Degree Colleges category, major surprise in the rankings is the 163rd
rank in the country and first rank in the state of Government College for Women
(GCW) Nawakadal, Srinagar followed by Government Gandhi Memorial College (GGM)
Science College, Jammu which is second in the state and 165th in the country.
These colleges managed ranking among the top 200 colleges of the country leaving
behind A.S. College, Srinagar; Bhartiya College of Education (BCE) Udhampur,
Girdari Lal Dogra Memorial Degree College-Hiranagar, Government Degree College
(GDC) Sunderbani, Government Degree College (GDC) Doda, Government Degree
College(GDC) Kalakote, Government Model Degree College (GMDC) Mahanpur, Govt
Degree College (GDC) Surankote, Govt Degree College (GDC) Thanamandi, Govt.
College of Education (GCED) Canal Road, Govt. Degree College (GDC) Kilhotran,
Govt. Degree College (GDC) Mendhar, Govt. Degree College (GDC) Udhampur, Govt.
Degree College(GDC) Bani, Government Degree College (GDC) Bhaderwah, Government
Degree College(GDC) Akhnoor, Govt. Degree College (GDC)Samba, Govt. Degree
College (GDC) Baramulla, Govt. Degree College for Women(GCW)Baramullah, Govt.
Degree College(GDC) Sopore, Maulana Azad Memorial (MAM)College Jammu, MIER
College of Education

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Early Times. For
any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 8, 2014 Saturday

New York: Canisius Gets High Marks in College Rankings

LENGTH: 631  words

DATELINE: Albany


Canisius College, The State of New York has issued the following news release:

Several college rankings are out and Canisius has received high marks.  Canisius
earned the 27th spot in the top tier of U.S. News and World Report's 2015
rankings of America's Best Regional Universities - North for the third
consecutive year.  U.S. News named 135 universities in this category.

The annual rankings are one resource that students and parents use to evaluate
their college choices.  The results are based on a proprietary methodology of
statistics for 16 indicators of academic excellence.  Each indicator is assigned
a weight and expressed as a percentage.  Colleges are then ranked based on their
composite scores.  The categories in which schools are listed are based on the
classifications created by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of
Teaching.

"It is an honor to be consistently ranked among the top regional universities in
the North," said Richard A. Wall, PhD, vice president for academic affairs. "Our
placement is a result of the expertise of our faculty and rich academic programs
that lead Canisius students to successful careers that contribute to the
betterment of society and their professions."

U.S .News also ranked Canisius eighth in the 2015 "Great Schools, Great Prices"
listing among regional universities in the North. This is the third consecutive
year Canisius has been in the top 10 in this category.

U.S. News named only 15 regional universities in the North to its "best value"
list. U.S. News classifies regional universities as those that provide a full
range of undergraduate majors and master's programs, and tends to draw students
most heavily from surrounding states.  The methodology for the annual ranking
looks at three variables:  The ratio of academic quality to price, need-based
aid and the average discount.

U.S. News also ranked Canisius among the top institutes of higher education for
military veterans.  Canisius earned the seventh spot among 49 regional
universities in the North on the Best Colleges for Veterans ranking for 2015.
This is the second year Canisius has ranked in the top 10 on this list.

The rankings recognize colleges and universities that participate in federal
initiatives designed to help veterans and active service members apply, pay for
and complete their degrees.  Canisius instituted an Office of Veterans Services
in March 2011 to meet the needs of a growing veteran student population, which
has more than doubled since 2007. "Canisius is proud to be able to provide our
veterans with excellent graduate and undergraduate options that are flexible,
affordable and meet their educational goals," said Wall.

To be considered for U.S. News & World Report's Best Colleges for Veterans
ranking, schools had to be certified for the GI Bill, participate in the Yellow
Ribbon Program and be members of the Servicemembers Opportunity Colleges (SOC)
Consortium, a group that works to simplify credit transfers for veterans.

In additional rankings, Canisius was named a 2015 "College of Distinction" in
the Colleges of Distinction guidebook for the third consecutive year. The annual
publication recognizes higher education institutions, nationwide, that excel at
four distinctions: An engaged student body, great teaching, a vibrant campus
community, and successful outcomes

The Colleges of Distinction guidebook recognized Canisius for its small class
sizes, exciting academic programs, strong faculty interaction, innovative
learning experiences, and for providing opportunities to students for personal
development.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.coma

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 8, 2014 Saturday

New York: Canisius Gets High Marks in College Rankings

LENGTH: 631  words

DATELINE: Albany


Canisius College, The State of New York has issued the following news release:

Several college rankings are out and Canisius has received high marks.  Canisius
earned the 27th spot in the top tier of U.S. News and World Report's 2015
rankings of America's Best Regional Universities - North for the third
consecutive year.  U.S. News named 135 universities in this category.

The annual rankings are one resource that students and parents use to evaluate
their college choices.  The results are based on a proprietary methodology of
statistics for 16 indicators of academic excellence.  Each indicator is assigned
a weight and expressed as a percentage.  Colleges are then ranked based on their
composite scores.  The categories in which schools are listed are based on the
classifications created by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of
Teaching.

"It is an honor to be consistently ranked among the top regional universities in
the North," said Richard A. Wall, PhD, vice president for academic affairs. "Our
placement is a result of the expertise of our faculty and rich academic programs
that lead Canisius students to successful careers that contribute to the
betterment of society and their professions."

U.S .News also ranked Canisius eighth in the 2015 "Great Schools, Great Prices"
listing among regional universities in the North. This is the third consecutive
year Canisius has been in the top 10 in this category.

U.S. News named only 15 regional universities in the North to its "best value"
list. U.S. News classifies regional universities as those that provide a full
range of undergraduate majors and master's programs, and tends to draw students
most heavily from surrounding states.  The methodology for the annual ranking
looks at three variables:  The ratio of academic quality to price, need-based
aid and the average discount.

U.S. News also ranked Canisius among the top institutes of higher education for
military veterans.  Canisius earned the seventh spot among 49 regional
universities in the North on the Best Colleges for Veterans ranking for 2015.
This is the second year Canisius has ranked in the top 10 on this list.

The rankings recognize colleges and universities that participate in federal
initiatives designed to help veterans and active service members apply, pay for
and complete their degrees.  Canisius instituted an Office of Veterans Services
in March 2011 to meet the needs of a growing veteran student population, which
has more than doubled since 2007. "Canisius is proud to be able to provide our
veterans with excellent graduate and undergraduate options that are flexible,
affordable and meet their educational goals," said Wall.

To be considered for U.S. News & World Report's Best Colleges for Veterans
ranking, schools had to be certified for the GI Bill, participate in the Yellow
Ribbon Program and be members of the Servicemembers Opportunity Colleges (SOC)
Consortium, a group that works to simplify credit transfers for veterans.

In additional rankings, Canisius was named a 2015 "College of Distinction" in
the Colleges of Distinction guidebook for the third consecutive year. The annual
publication recognizes higher education institutions, nationwide, that excel at
four distinctions: An engaged student body, great teaching, a vibrant campus
community, and successful outcomes

The Colleges of Distinction guidebook recognized Canisius for its small class
sizes, exciting academic programs, strong faculty interaction, innovative
learning experiences, and for providing opportunities to students for personal
development.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.coma

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 4, 2017 Saturday

SUNY Old Westbury Recognized in National Rankings for Commitment to Student
Diversity

LENGTH: 388  words



New York: State University of New York College at Old Westbury has issued the
following news release:
The ongoing commitment of SUNY Old Westbury to serve a diverse student body has
earned the College laudable rankings from both U.S. News & World Report and USA
Today/College Factual.


"Since its founding more than 50 years ago, SUNY Old Westbury has been a college
dedicated to embracing the diversity and complexity of the world around it while
preparing students to succeed in their lives and careers," said College
President Calvin O. Butts, III. "Rankings such as these affirm that we are
succeeding in creating an atmosphere where each person's culture, religion,
ethnicity, and more contribute to the discussions occurring in our classrooms."

In its "2018 America's Best Colleges" rankings, U.S.News & World Report ranked
SUNY Old Westbury second among Regional Universities in the North for the
diversity of its student body, maintaining for an 18th consecutive year the
College's position as one of the most diverse colleges in America.  With a
maximum score of 1.0 based on the statistical likelihood of any student
interacting with other students from different racial and ethnic backgrounds,
Old Westbury earned a 0.74 score on the U.S. News index, which factors in both
the total proportion of minority students at each school - not including
international students - and the mix of racial and ethnic groups.
In the USA Today and College Factual "2018 Best Colleges" rankings, SUNY Old
Westbury was recognized as being among the top five percent of colleges and
universities nationwide for the diversity of its student body.  Utilizing data
from the Department of Education and the Integrated Postsecondary Education Data
System, the USA Today/College Factual rankings are calculated based on the
ethnic makeup of the student body, the geographic representation among students,
and the gender makeup of the student body.
"Engagement as a part of a community that earns recognition for its diversity
gives our students a unique experience, where they gain confidence in their
ability to question, speak, understand and engage in the world in which they
live and work," said President Butts.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                          September 12, 2012 Wednesday

U.S. News' annual college rankings highlights about a dozen Inland Empire
schools

BYLINE: Beau Yarbrough, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 943 words


About a dozen area colleges and universities have been spotlighted in one of the
most prominent rankings of the nation's colleges and universities.

U.S. News & World Report's Best Colleges 2013 list, released Wednesday, lists
106 California colleges and universities on several lists, including 34 in the
Los Angeles and Inland Empire regions.

In the Inland Empire, Cal Baptist in Riverside, Cal Poly Pomona, Cal State San
Bernardino, Claremont McKenna College, Harvey Mudd College in Claremont, La
Sierra University in Riverside, Pitzer College in Claremont, Pomona College in
Claremont, Scripps College in Claremont, UC Riverside, the University of La
Verne and the University of Redlands were ranked by the magazine.

The report's authors base their list on "up to 16 indicators of academic
excellence" from each college, weighted according to the magazine's judgment
about how important each measure is.

Although the list is viewed somewhat skeptically by some educators, it's popular
with the public. As a result, universities, including Claremont McKenna, have
been caught goosing the data that goes into the rankings. (Claremont McKenna
fell from No.9 to No.10 in the magazine's list of national liberal arts schools
this year.)

National universities

UC Riverside and the University of La Verne were highlighted on the magazine's
list of "national universities."

"National Universities offer a full range of undergraduate majors, plus master's
and Ph.D. programs, and emphasize faculty research," according to the magazine.

UC Riverside was ranked No.101 among national universities. The University of La
Verne came in at No.165.

"Once again, La Verne is proud to be recognized as a top-tier national
institution," university President Devorah Lieberman said Wednesday. "As a
smaller school, we are especially pleased of what we have been able to achieve
year after year. We look forward to even greater success in the future."

National liberal arts colleges

Claremont McKenna, Harvey Mudd, Pitzer College, Pomona College and Scripps
College were highlighted on the list of "national liberal arts colleges."

"National Liberal Arts Colleges focus almost exclusively on undergraduate
education. They award at least 50percent of their degrees in the arts and
sciences," according to the magazine.

Pomona College was named No.4 in the nation among national liberal arts colleges
, tied with Middlebury College. Claremont McKenna was ranked No.10 (tied with
Vassar College), Harvey Mudd was named No.12 12, Scripps College was ranked
No.24 and Pitzer College came in at No.43.

"We're glad to see Harvey Mudd College garner this recognition for the excellent
work of our faculty, students, staff and alumni," Maria Klawe, the school's
president, said Wednesday. "The rankings reflect our commitment to a rigorous
science and math education within a broader liberal arts context that develops
future scientists and engineers who understand the impact of their work on
society. Our focus on interdisciplinary teaching, research and professional
practice generates graduates who are uniquely prepared to deal with the most
difficult challenges in an ever-changing world."

Claremont McKenna's ranking was down one point from last year, and comes five
months after outside investigators working for the school discovered that a
former dean of admissions had inflated SAT scores - one of the criterion the
magazine uses in its rankings - after median SAT scores for incoming students
had dropped.

Best regional universities, colleges

Cal Baptist, Cal Poly Pomona, Cal State San Bernardino, La Sierra, and the
University of Redlands were listed among the best regional universities and
colleges in the West.

"Regional Universities offer a broad scope of undergraduate degrees and some
master's degree programs but few, if any, doctoral programs," the magazine says.
"Regional Colleges focus on undergraduate education but grant fewer than
50percent of their degrees in liberal arts disciplines; this category also
includes schools that have small bachelor's degree programs but primarily grant
two-year associate degrees. Regional Universities and Regional Colleges are
further divided and ranked in four geographical groups: North, South, Midwest
and West."

The University of Redlands was ranked No.11 in the magazine's listing of best
colleges and universities in the West.

"This ranking places the University of Redlands among the top universities in
the nation," university spokeswoman Karen Bergh said Wednesday. "We consider it
an affirming recognition, not only of the high-quality education, but of the
university's time-honored tradition of excellence as a premiere liberal arts
university on the West Coast."

Cal Poly Pomona came in at No.34.

"Cal Poly Pomona's ranking - 34th overall and eighth among public universities
in the West - reflects well on the quality of education we continue to provide
despite a very challenging economic environment," spokesman Tim Lynch said
Wednesday. "We are most proud that we graduate so many ready-to-succeed students
who will be the backbone of the state's economy: the engineers, architects,
scientists, teachers and many others whose contributions in coming years will be
significant."

Cal State San Bernardino was at No.54.

"It's always a huge honor to be included in the rankings and continue to move
up," CSUSB spokesman Sid Robinson said Wednesday afternoon.

Cal Baptist came in at number 58.

The magazine's full set of rankings is available onlineathttp://colleges.
usnews.rankingsandreviews.com/best-colleges . The print edition will be on
newsstands on Tuesday.

Contact Beauvia email , by phone at 909-483-9376 or on Twitter@InlandEd .

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                      April 10, 1995, Monday, ALL EDITIONS

SCHOOL MATTERS;
NOTES, IDEAS, TRENDS IN NATIONAL EDUCATION;
Report finds colleges may play with numbers to boost ranking

SECTION: FEATURES, Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 486 words


Prospective college students take note: Those college rankings found in numerous
magazines and books may not be reliable, according to a report in The Wall
Street Journal.

The newspaper took information from the annual rankings of colleges in U.S. News
& World Report and Money magazines and compared it to data colleges provide to
bond-rating agencies and the NCAA.

In some cases, huge discrepancies were found. For example, the New College of
the University of South Florida listed an average Scholastic Assessment Test
score as 1296. That's 40 points higher than the real average because the school
did not include scores of the bottom 6 percent.

The only Georgia school mentioned in the article was Mercer University, which
listed a graduation rate of 75 percent in the U.S. News ranking while showing
only a 40 percent graduation rate in the NCAA report.

Mercer spokesman Larry Brumley said the difference can be attributed to the
method by which the two groups defined graduation rates - U.S. News, he said,
allows a college to include students who transferred to another school and
graduated while the NCAA does not.

"The article left the impression that all institutions are cooking their
numbers," Brumley said. "Some probably are. There is intense competition. But we
aren't. Many of the discrepancies occur because different questions have
different answers."

-PROSTITUTE-FREE ZONE: Prostitutes caught close to schools in Tennessee will
spend at least seven days in jail and face fines of $ 1,000. The new law came
after children at Shwab School in Nashville complained of encounters with
hookers and their customers and having to step over used condoms and needles.

-EDUCATION BLUES: A 5-year-old program called Blues in the Schools is in full
swing in Charleston, S.C., bringing blues artists in to work with inner-city
kids. "I thought the blues was just old people moaning all the time,"
fifth-grader Jody Ryans told U.S News & World Report. "Now, I understand it's a
way of expressing yourself. It's a good way, instead of fighting and stuff."

-CLUELESS: After all the jokes about teenagers' cultural illiteracy, it should
come as no surprise to learn that many teens have no idea who the namesake of
their high school is. Several students at Grover Cleveland High School in Los
Angeles, for instance, were surprised to hear their school was named for a
former president. "I always thought it was named after that city in Canada," one
student said in the April issue of Executive Educator.

-BUT YOU CAN'T PAY WITH CHICKENS: House calls are back, at least in five
residence halls at New York University in Greenwich Village. The school is
piloting a program that places nurses in the dormitories for two hours a week.
"A student with the sniffles may come down and see me in 'jammies and robe,' "
said nurse Lynda Chesterman.

Compiled by staff writer Reagan Walker.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1995 The Atlanta Constitution

                              457 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                            August 23, 2008 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 702 words


Raleigh | University of North Carolina Wilmington ranked sixth among similar
Southern public colleges in an annual comparison released Friday.

The school also came in 14th among 121 public or private master's level
universities in the region, according to rankings from U.S. News & World
Report's America's Best Colleges 2009 report, which were released on the
magazine's Web site.

Hodges University and Rollins College - both schools in Florida - tied for the
top position on the list of Southern master's schools, which offer primarily
undergraduate and master's courses but few doctoral programs.

The latest comparisons are the same spots UNCW held in last year's report.

The report for the first time asked college officials to point to "up and
coming" schools. UNCW tied for fifth in that distinction among its Southern
peers along with Union University and James Madison University.

"We have seven strategic goals that drive everything we do at UNCW, and we are
making steady progress in every one of those areas, which is reflected in these
rankings," Chancellor Rosemary DePaolo said in a statement. "It is a tribute to
the daily efforts of our faculty and staff to ensure the most powerful academic
experience possible for our students."

Also in the report, Duke University remained among the country's Top 10 colleges
and universities while several other schools in North Carolina - including Wake
Forest University and Davidson College - continued to improve their status.

The report has Duke sharing the No. 8 spot with Columbia University in New York
and the University of Chicago. Davidson College topped the list of  "up and
coming" liberal arts colleges, which include 265 separately ranked schools that
focus on undergraduate education and award at least half of their degrees in the
arts and sciences.

The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill ranked fifth among the nation's
top public universities, but moved down slightly to 30th overall. Yet the
university ranked No. 1 among public universities in the category of  "Great
Schools, Great Prices."

Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem climbed from 30th last year to tie at
No. 28 with Tufts University in Somerville, Mass. North Carolina State
University was ranked 37th among public universities and 83rd overall.

Duke Provost Peter Lange said that while he was pleased to see his institution's
faculty and students in Durham recognized, it remained important for potential
applicants to look beyond the numbers.

"As always, we remind students and parents of the limitations of these and other
rankings, which they should use as only one source of information as they engage
with the college application process," Lange said in a statement.

The ranking formula takes account of factors such as SAT scores, peer
reputation, selectivity and alumni giving.

Harvard University claims sole possession of the No. 1 spot for the first time
in 12 years, making it the country's oldest, wealthiest and most selective
university. Princeton slips to No. 2, ending eight straight years of at least
sharing the top ranking. Yale follows at No. 3, and MIT and Stanford tie for
fourth.

The University of California, Berkeley is the highest-ranked public university,
at No. 21 overall. In a separate list for liberal arts colleges, Amherst moves
up one spot to tie Williams, its rival just up the road in Massachusetts, for
the top spot.

Davidson College, a highly selective private college near Charlotte, was ranked
ninth among liberal arts colleges - the same position the 1,700-student school
held last year.

The U.S. News' rankings are often criticized but closely followed, and although
traditional rankings typically get most of the attention, they rarely change
much from year to year.

The magazine has been adding new categories to the rankings, including the debut
of this year's  "Up and Comers," which listed Davidson College as its top
liberal arts school. Colleges on the list are considered innovative institutions
that officials identify as poised to move up in the rankings in the coming
years.

The report will appear in the magazine hitting newsstands Monday.

Staff Writer Vicky Eckenrode and AP Education Writer Justin Pope contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    September 7, 2001, Friday, FIRST EDITION

Princeton, Amherst repeat

BYLINE: Mary Beth Marklein

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 563 words

Princeton University in New Jersey and Amherst College in Massachusetts are the
best national doctorate-granting and liberal-arts institutions of higher
education, respectively, says U.S. News & World Report in its latest rankings.

They were the top-ranked schools last year, too.

Nearly 1,400 institutions are ranked in the magazine, which launched its popular
and controversial "America's Best Colleges" guide in 1983. U.S. News used the
same formula as last year, including criteria such as graduation rate, alumni
giving, retention and student selectivity.


This year, however, it recategorized about 200 schools and added about 50 more
to reflect recent changes to a widely accepted system of classifying
institutions. Those categories include national universities that grant
doctorates, universities (presented by geographical region in U.S. News) that
award undergraduate and master's degrees, and colleges that primarily award
bachelor's degrees in the liberal arts. That system was created and revised by
the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.

The top rankings in the national university and liberal arts categories remain
nearly identical to last year's lists.

Meanwhile, complaints continue about the magazine's annual rankings. Most
critics argue that the criteria used by U.S. News to assess colleges are
inappropriate, misleading and counterproductive to the already stressful college
admissions process.

In the September issue of Washington Monthly, an article co-written by a former
U.S. News staff member who oversaw the rankings for 18 months in the late 1990s
says the guide "pays scant attention to measures of learning or good educational
practice." Instead, the article says, "U.S. News' rankings primarily register a
school's wealth, reputation and the achievement of the high school students it
admits."

In the 2002 edition, editors urge readers to use the rankings to develop or hone
a list of colleges -- but not to make a final choice.

Several education researchers have been developing alternative tools they say
will better help students and their parents select a college. For example, one
method attempts to measure student-faculty interaction; another tries to
identify potential college choices based on a student's goals and values.

About two-thirds of new high school graduates go on to college every year. The
U.S. News guide, which costs $ 7.95, is available on newsstands Monday.

For a full list: www.usnews.com



National universities

This year's U.S. News rankings say the top national universities granting
doctoral degrees, in order, are:

1. Princeton University

2. Harvard University

2. Yale University

4. California Institute of Technology

5. Massachusetts Institute of Technology

5. Stanford University

5. University of Pennsylvania

8. Duke University

9. Columbia University

9. Dartmouth College

9. University of Chicago

Liberal arts

The top national liberal arts schools, U.S. News says, are:

1. Amherst College

1. Swarthmore College

3. Williams College

4. Wellesley College

5. Bowdoin College

5. Carleton College

5. Haverford College

5. Pomona College

9. Middlebury College

10. Davidson College

LOAD-DATE: September 07, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              459 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            October 31, 2011 Monday

Colleges reluctantly take part in rankings;
School officials criticize system, but say it 'is here to stay.'

BYLINE: By Christopher Magan Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 789 words


School rankings have become so prolific that colleges and universities across
the Miami Valley spend countless hours responding to dozens of publications'
surveys each year despite school leaders' mixed feelings about the rankings
business.

"The reality of it for us is the ranking business is here to stay," said Miami
University's Michael Kabbaz, associate vice president for enrollment management.

Kabbaz and other local university officials criticized the "subjectivity" of the
system, which uses a combination of data, statistics and "peer reviews" to rank
institutions. School leaders argue parents and students could be unfairly swayed
by the opinions of competing institutions.

"These should not be used as a hard and fast way to decided on fit for
individual students," Kabbaz said. "The real danger lies with families who use
this to make an education decision."

In fact, the National Association for College Admissions Counseling released a
report in May that found both high school counselors and their college
counterparts had unfavorable opinions of the rankings. Just 2.9 percent of
respondents felt the largest survey, U.S. News and World Report's "America's
Best Colleges," accurately represented the information contained in the
publication.

Yet each year schools across Ohio and the nation answer dozens of queries from
publications like Forbes, Washington Monthly and U.S. News. The same national
survey found that over two-thirds of the schools favorably ranked by U.S. News
promote their ranking in some way.

Robert Morse, who directs U.S. News research and writes about higher education,
acknowledges the magazine's rankings are controversial. The "subjective" opinion
of higher education professions make up 25 percent of the ranking because
perceptions of a school are important not only to students, but alumni and
businesses hiring graduates.

"The rankings are not perfect and they have been highly criticized, but the
schools have helped make the rankings what they are," he said. "The schools have
given them authority. They don't like them, but they use them in their
marketing."

U.S. News has ranked colleges and universities for more than 25 years. In
September, when the latest survey was released, more than 5 million people
visited the U.S. News ranking website, making it "our most recognized brand,"
Morse said.

Last year, U.S. News started charging schools that wanted to use specific logos
when mentioning their rankings in marketing material, Morse said.

Miami, University of Day-ton, University of Cincinnati, Wright State University
all said they have not paid to use the logos, which can cost as much as $15,000
per school for unlimited use. Morse didn't have official national numbers, but
he said nationwide schools agreeing to pay the licensing fee "exceeded
expectations."

A number of other publications have gotten into the ranking business over the
past decade. Area universities receive so many requests at so many different
departments that university officials were unable to estimate the amount of time
and resources spent compiling information. Much of the information requested by
the publications is also compiled for the U.S. Department of Education and other
agencies, school officials said.

Sundar Kumarasamy, University of Dayton vice president for enrollment
management, said the surveys can reach 80 pages or more with hundreds of
questions. "There is no validation process. I could make an honest mistake,
there is no cross verification," Kumarasamy said. "It is still in our best
interest to complete these things."

If a school refuses, university officials said, many of the publications will
use whatever information they can compile on their own to devise their rankings.
"We could choose not to, but the danger for us lies in not having accurate
information," Kabbaz said.

Some schools work to influence their rankings through advertising campaigns to
their "peers" who review schools for the magazine. This year Boston University
reportedly set aside up to $500,000 to help improve its U.S. News ranking.

Wright State University has begun to pay closer attention to school rankings
after years of concentrating on "other priorities," said George Heddleston,
spokesman.

WSU spent $8,600 recently on a campaign trying to get noticed as an
"up-and-coming" school and plans another small campaign, school officials said.

Despite the controversy and debate surrounding ranking schools U.S. News will be
expanding its rankings, Morse said. The magazine stopped publishing a weekly
magazine in January concentrating content online, but still prints ranking
editions.

"We are going to be doing more rankings and using our resources better," Morse
said. "Our society is becoming more qualitative."

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

                              460 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             April 10, 2017 Monday
                                Kolkata Edition

COURSE CORRECTION - Experts: List of 'surprises' will help students, colleges

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 361 words


The new national ranking released on last week Monday widens the choice for
students, career counsellors said as they welcomed the list. The ranking, it is
felt, can also help colleges improve their academic performance and facilities
since the parameters measured are on the lines of what global rankings use. Only
a handful of Indian institutes make it to international lists.

This listing for higher educational institutes compiled by the Union HRD
ministry allows students and parents to make a more informed choice, including
as it does some \x93surprises\x93. Counsellor Usha Albuquerque said the list has
thrown up certain names not known to be among the \x93best\x93, and gives
students and parents

a fairer idea of their choices beside the top 10 colleges. \x93 A college like
Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma (in Delhi) is not considered among the top but has still
landed a very good rank. A majority of students go to the second lot of
institutes (other than the top 10), and want to know the quality of education in
their institutes of interest,\x93 she said.

She added the NAAC ranking used so far also does not include all colleges.
\x93Until now we'd depend on the NAAC rankings. But several colleges are left
out of that too. This list certainly helps, though more institutes must come
forward and get themselves ranked if they find the process just and
transparent.\x93 Counsellor Per

vin Malhotra said the ranking being \x93institute-based, rather than
perception-based\x93 is a step forward. \x93Commercial rankings are not the only
feature that must be taken in consideration while choosing a college. This
ranking lists various parameters like research, which is very low in India.\x93

Malhotra said the list will also help improve quality of education as it
measures institutions on parameters used in global rankings. \x93This list will
help and communicate with the institutes on what they lack and where exactly
they stand in terms of quality . Indian institutes have ranked very low on
several lists because their parameters are different.The HRD ministry list takes
some of those parameters in view, and will help Indian institutes move up,\x93
she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 995 DOCUMENTS


            Colorado Springs Business Journal (Colorado Springs, CO)

                                 August 6, 2009

Forbes ranks Air Force Academy in Colorado seventh best in nation

BYLINE: CSBJ Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 267  words


As cadets begin their fall semester today, they do so at the No. 7 undergraduate
institution in the nation, according to Forbes.

Forbes released its second annual America's Best Colleges rankings yesterday.

The rankings are compiled by Forbes and the Center for College Affordability and
Productivity, which evaluated 600 undergrad colleges.   The rankings are based
on student evaluations, alumni listed in Who's Who in America, amount of student
debt at graduation, percentage of students and instructors who receive
nationally competitive awards (Rhodes Scholarships or Nobel Prizes) and the
percentage of students who graduate in four years.

These rankings put service academies in the same tier as Ivy League colleges.
The Air Force Academy placed at No. 16 during 2008, while the U.S. Naval Academy
moved from No. 36 last year to No. 30 this year.   The U.S. Military Academy was
ranked No. 1 in the nation, after placing sixth during 2008.

According to Forbes, the move illustrates strong performances on the part of all
the service academies.

At the U.S. Air Force Academy, the student-faculty ratio is 9:1, average class
size is 20, 100 percent of the faculty is full-time and zero classes are taught
by teaching assistants.

            Forbes also ranked the Air Force Academy as No. 4 on its list of
America's Best College Buys.   This follows the Princeton Review's recent best
colleges rankings, which put the Academy as No. 4 in professor availability.

            For  the full list of rankings, visit:
http://www.forbes.com/2009/08/02/best-colleges-ratings-opinions-ranking
-2009_land.html

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Reboot Illinois

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            October 1, 2015 Thursday

Niche ranks the best liberal arts colleges in Illinois for 2016

BYLINE: Kevin Hoffman, Reboot Illinois

SECTION: NATIONAL POLITICAL NEWS

LENGTH: 583 words


Oct. 01--Niche ranked seven colleges in Illinois as the state's best liberal
arts schools for 2016, and four them ranked among the nation's top 100.

To come up with the rankings, Niche assessed more than 1,000 public and private
four-year institutions using the most recent data from the U.S. Department of
Education, and issued grades for 10 indicators, including academics, faculty,
value, student life, diversity and campus quality (a link to Niche's methodology
follows the list).

Here are the seven liberal arts colleges in Illinois that were ranked by Niche,
with national ranks in parenthesis if applicable.

7. Lake Forest College -- Lake Forest

http://reboot.rebootillinois.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/Lake-Fore
st-College.jpg

* Academics: B

* Value: B+

* Professors: C+

* Diversity: A

* Student Life: C+

* Campus Quality: C+

6. Augustana College -- Rock Island

http://reboot.rebootillinois.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/Augustana
.jpg

* Academics: B

* Value: B

* Professors: B-

* Diversity: B-

* Student Life: B

* Campus Quality: B-

5. Illinois College -- Jacksonville

http://reboot.rebootillinois.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/Illinois-
College1.jpg

* Academics: B

* Value: B

* Professors: B-

* Diversity: B-

* Student Life: B

* Campus Quality: B-

4. Monmouth College -- Monmouth (#97)

http://reboot.rebootillinois.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/Monmouth-
College.jpg

* Academics: B

* Value: B

* Professors: A

* Diversity: C+

* Student Life: B-

* Campus Quality: C+

3. Knox College -- Galesburg (#84)

http://reboot.rebootillinois.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/Knox-
College.jpg

* Academics: B+

* Value: B+

* Professors: B+

* Diversity: A

* Student Life: B-

* Campus Quality: B-

2. Illinois Wesleyan University -- Bloomington (#64)

http://reboot.rebootillinois.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/Illinois-
Wesleyan.jpg

* Academics: A-

* Value: A-

* Professors: B

* Diversity: B-

* Student Life: A-

* Campus Quality: B

1. Wheaton College -- Wheaton (#47)

http://reboot.rebootillinois.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/Wheaton-
College.jpg

* Academics: A

* Value: A-

* Professors: B-

* Diversity: B-

* Student Life: A-

* Campus Quality: A

You can view Niche's national rankings here and methodology here.

More from Niche on this year's rankings:

New for 2016, our Best Colleges ranking also incorporates a new Best Value
Colleges ranking as a factor to reflect the experience of alumni in the "real
world." The Best Value Colleges ranking assesses the long-term impact a college
has on its students in terms of costs, debt, career advancement, earnings, and
student reviews on how prepared they feel for life after college. This ranking
was developed as part of a recent Department of Education College Scorecard
initiative, where Niche was invited to be an early beta user of new
outcomes-focused datasets.

Fill out my online form.

Kevin Hoffman is a Reboot Illinois staff writer who graduated from the
University of Iowa with a degree in journalism, political science and
international studies. He believes keeping citizens informed and politicians in
check is the best way to improve Illinois and bring about common sense reform.
Follow us on Facebook.

Reboot Illinois is a nonpartisan website and social media effort dedicated to
involving Illinoisans in the key issues facing our state, including state debt,
corruption and waste and improving business and schools.

___ (c)2015 Reboot Illinois Visit Reboot Illinois at www.rebootillinois.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20151001-2IL-Niche-ranks-the-best-liberal-arts-colleges
-in-Illinois-for-2016-1001-20151001

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 2IL


                                 Copyright 2015

                              463 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            August 20, 2009 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HARVARD, PRINCETON ATOP HEAP IN NEW COLLEGE RANKINGS

BYLINE: Bill Schackner, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 326 words


Harvard and Princeton universities share the top ranking in the new annual
college rankings by U.S. News & World Report that are being released today.

The latest edition of the magazine's "America's Best Colleges" puts the two
schools at the top among the 50 best national universities. Both have alternated
in the number one position in recent years.

Coming in third was Yale University, and four schools tied for fourth:
California Institute of Technology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Standford University and the University of Pennsylvania.

Among the magazine's list of the best liberal arts campuses, Williams College
was first, followed by Amherst College, Swarthmore College and Middlebury and
Wellesley colleges, which finished in a two-way tie for fourth.

The U.S. News rankings are closely watched by the public, but a number of
colleges have criticized the survey's methodology. Some schools have waged a
boycott of the rankings in recent years.

The magazine bases its conclusions on a range of factors, including SAT scores,
opinions of peers at other schools, selectivity and support by alumni.

Locally, Carnegie Mellon University retained its 22nd spot among the best
national universities. A peer survey put the school's undergraduate business
program at ninth best and its undergraduate engineering program seventh.

In the specialties category, Carnegie Mellon's management information systems
finished second, as did the university's production/operations management
offering. Its supply chain management/logistics was ranked fourth.

The University of Pittsburgh was not in the top 50 but advanced in the ranking
to a two-way tie with Boston University for 56th place, up from a two-way tie
for 58th place last year. Pitt ranked 20th among the 50 top public national
universities.

Penn State University held its 47th place standing among the top national
universities. Penn State finished 15th among the 50 top public national
universities.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bill Schackner can be reached at bschackner@post-gazette.com or
412-263-1977./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.

                              464 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                   September 7, 2001 Friday Michigan Edition

Saint Mary's still 1st in Midwest;
Notre Dame 19th for national schools in latest U.S. News study

BYLINE: Tribune Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: NATION; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 446 words


In the latest list of college rankings by U.S. News & World Report, Saint Mary's
College remains at No. 1 among best Midwestern liberal arts colleges and the
University of Notre Dame remains at No. 19 among national universities -- the
same rankings as last year.

Saint Mary's has earned a No. 1 ranking for seven of the past eight years.

For the second straight year, Princeton University is at the top of the annual
campus rankings, ahead of Harvard and Yale. The 2002 list, released Thursday,
appears amid growing criticism that it misses the point of college -- learning.

Valparaiso University ranks No. 1 in the category of best regional universities,
up from No. 4 last year. Butler University in Indianapolis is now No. 4.

The University of Michigan ranks No. 25 among national universities, the same as
last year.

Among top public universities, Purdue University (20th last year) ties this year
for No. 21 with Ohio State University and the University of Maryland; Indiana
University (26th last year) and Michigan State University (33rd last year) are
tied for 28th place.

Western Michigan University in Kalamazoo placed in the third tier of national
public universities.

Even the No. 1 national school said rankings aren't everything.

"While we appreciate the recognition in these rankings, we don't put much stock
into this particular ranking, or to others like it," Princeton spokeswoman
Marilyn Marks said.

U.S. News says that the editors' year-round effort to get the rankings right
includes regular consultation with top college officials nationwide. It says
complaints from schools are few.

Amy Graham, who ran the U.S. News' rankings for 18 months in the late 1990s,
co-wrote an article for the latest issue of The Washington Monthly, criticizing
the rankings as shallow.

"The basic problem is some of the criteria they use are just measuring the wrong
thing," she said in an interview. The high-scoring schools tend to be those that
produce a lot of research, with money and faculty salaries to match, she said.

U.S. News has looked for ways to quantify how much students actually learn,
their satisfaction and results, but has yet to find a workable method, Cary
said. Still, he said, "Most of the people we talk to believe most of what we're
doing is on the right track."

One exception is Bard College President Leon Botstein, who regularly assails the
rankings.

"They don't really analyze the quality of teaching. They don't analyze the
curriculum," said Botstein, whose Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., school ranks 38th
among liberal arts colleges. "It's a club ranking. This is the equivalent of the
restaurants you want to be seen in."


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2001 South Bend Tribune Corporation

                              465 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday

Six of India's top 10 colleges are in Delhi

BYLINE: Manash Pratim Gohain

SECTION: DELHI

LENGTH: 565 words


New Delhi: There was good news for Delhi in the 2017 ranking of top universities
and colleges under the National Institutional Ranking Framework released by the
union ministry for human resource development on Monday. While Jawaharlal Nehru
was ranked second among universities, Delhi University was in the eighth spot
and Jamia Millia Islamia in 12th. IIT Delhi was fourth among engineering
institutions, even as Delhi Jamia Hamdard topped the pharmacy category.

Besides, six DU colleges figured in the top 10 among the best 100 colleges of
India. Overall, among the institutions of higher education ranked, IIT Delhi was
placed fifth, JNU sixth and DU, 15th.DU colleges Miranda House, Shri Ram College
of Commerce, Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma, Lady Shri Ram, Dyal Singh and Deen Dayal
Upadhyaya earned places among the top 10 ranked colleges. Some prominent
colleges of the university, such as St Stephen's and Hindu, were missing from
the list. Many of them said they had been focusing on their commitments to the
National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), which was carrying out its
appraisal process around the same time, and missed out on the rankings. The
colleges said they would participate in NIRF next year. In addition to the six
in the top 10, there were five other DU colleges among the 100 best. These were
Keshav Mahavidyalya (15), Acharya Narendra Dev (20), Ramanujan (33) and Shaheed
Bhagat Singh-Evening (34) and SGND Khalsa (44). In the parallel list of the top
100 universities were Delhi Technological University, Indian Institute of
Foreign Trade, Indian Agricultural Research Institute and Guru Gobind Singh
Indraprastha University.Reacting to the ranking, M Jagadesh Kumar,
vice-chancellor of JNU, which earlier had been given the best central university
award by President Pranab Mukherjee, said, "JNU stands tall again with its focus
on academic excellence."Similarly pleased with Miranda House being deemed the
best among Delhi University colleges, its principal Pratibha Jolly, said that
with many institutions across India doing great work, it was difficult to
compare them, but "Miranda House is in a niche of its own and the ranking has
brought the college much joy". She said the NIRF parameters were fairly
quantitative, though she thought benchmarks like cut-off marks did not fully
measure merit. At the unheralded Dyal Singh College, principal Inderjit Singh
Bakshi said being ranked in the top 10 was "an opportunity to do better and
become more competitive". Bakshi added that unlike NAAC which came every five
years, NIRF was an annual feature and "Dyal Singh would have to set its target
annually to raise the bar for academic excellence".However, with the issue of
autonomy for colleges being hotly debated in DU, there was alarm among some
teachers that the NIRF rankings could pave the way for granting autonomous
status to certain colleges. Said Abha D Habib, teacher at Miranda House and
activist for the Democratic Teachers' Front, which is opposed to autonomy: "Even
as we wish to celebrate this achievement of being listed as the topmost college
in Delhi University, we are filled with apprehensions that this may come with a
push for autonomous status." She said that Miranda House's top ranking could
only have been achieved because it has always been a part of DU and not an
autonomous institution.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   Chambersburg Public Opinion (Pennsylvania)

                             August 19, 2007 Sunday

Wilson named 'Top Tier' college

BYLINE: Staff report

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 455 words


U.S. News & World Report's 2008 "America's Best Colleges" issue named Wilson a
"Top Tier" and "Best Value" college.

The magazine, which will be available on newsstands today, rates Wilson slightly
higher in the rankings than the previous year.

Wilson ranked 16th overall in the category of Best Baccalaureate Colleges
focused on undergraduate education in the northern region, up from a ranking of
18th in the category last year.

U.S. News uses a variety of data to calculate the best colleges rankings,
including assessments by administrators at peer institutions, freshman retention
rates, graduation rates, student-faculty ratios, student SAT/ACT scores,
acceptance rates and alumni giving rates.

It is the fifth consecutive year Wilson has been recognized as a Top Tier
college. U.S. News examined a total of 70 colleges in the northern region to
determine the rankings.

For the seventh straight year, Wilson also has been honored as a Best Value
College in the North, ranking sixth among colleges offering bachelor's degrees.
The college was ranked seventh last year in that category.

In addition, Wilson's student-teacher ratio of 10-1 gave it a tie for third
among baccalaureate colleges in the northern region in highest proportion of
classes with fewer than 20 students. Two other colleges tied for second. Wilson
was also third in the category last year.

"Wilson remains deeply committed to offering a personalized educational
experience that is both high in quality and affordable," said Dr. Lorna
Edmundson, president of Wilson College. "Students and families deserve both."

The formula used by U.S. News to determine Best Value Colleges relates a
school's academic quality to the net cost of attendance for a student who
receives the average level of need-based financial aid. The higher the quality
of the program and the lower the cost, the better the deal, according to U.S
News.

In the Best Value category for northern colleges offering bachelor's degrees,
Wilson's ranking of sixth among 10 colleges (only schools ranked in the top half
of their categories are included) shows that 72 percent of its students receive
aid, for an average discount of 42 percent.

Wilson College annually awards students more than $9.5 million in financial aid,
according to Mary Ann Naso, vice president for enrollment.

Wilson College offers its nearly 800 students more than 40 fields of study,
including majors, minors, concentrations and certificates, as well as a master's
degree in teaching. Additional opportunities are available in physical education
and dance; pre-professional programs in law, medicine, veterinary medicine and
the health sciences; and a variety of special learning opportunities,
internships and study-abroad programs.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 Public Opinion
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                            September 8, 2014 Monday

What is America's top college? Depends on who is doing the ranking;
US News & World Report issues its annual rankings of America's colleges and
universities Tuesday. But the 30-year-old ranking faces not only criticism but
increased competition, from everyone from Money and Forbes to the White House.

BYLINE: Amanda Paulson Staff writer

SECTION: USA

LENGTH: 726 words


For the 30th time, US News & World Report will issue its annual ranking of
America's colleges and universities on Tuesday.

Readers can wait with bated breath to see if Princeton (last year's No. 1) will
retain its top spot, or if it will juggle places with Harvard and Yale, the
other two perennially in the top three.

But while the US News rankings remain the most known of the rankings, they're
increasingly getting not only criticism - some education observers have long
blamed them for negatively impacting college affordability - but also
competition.

This year, Money Magazine compiled its own list, emphasizing outcomes over more
nebulous criteria like reputation, and weighing data that pertains to
educational quality, affordability, and career earnings.

The top three? Babson College, Webb Institute, and the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology. Princeton, Stanford, and Harvard quickly follow, but lesser-known
schools like New York's Cooper Union and Harvey Mudd College in Claremont,
Calif., rank well ahead of Yale (No. 15).

The goal, wrote the Money editors, was "to give students and parents a much
better indication of which colleges will provide real value for their tuition
dollars and enhance a student's earning potential."

Washington Monthly, which has been ranking colleges since 2005, also uses a
different sort of criteria in ranking its schools - based on how well colleges
deliver on three public goods: social mobility, commitment to research, and
commitment to service. It now also gives special attention to the best "bang for
your buck" schools.

Forbes, Newsweek, and The Princeton Review all have their own lists.

And the federal government is getting into the game, too. After a bus tour last
fall in which he called attention to college affordability, and the growing
problem of increased student debt and spiraling college costs, President Obama
unveiled a plan to start rating colleges based on things such asrati college
completion rates and sticker price.

"We're going to start rating colleges not just by which college is the most
selective, not just by which college is the most expensive, not just by which
college has the nicest facilities - you can get all of that on the existing
rating systems. What we want to do is rate them on who's offering the best value
so students and taxpayers get a bigger bang for their buck," Obama said at the
time.

Developing that system has been more complicated than the administration
expected, and the Education Department recently announced that it would be
releasing a draft later than expected, with the complete ratings scheduled to be
in place before the beginning of the 2015 school year.

The idea - along with serving as an informational tool for students and an
incentive for colleges to do better - is that eventually, Congress could pass
legislation tying federal aid to those ratings, and disqualifying the worst
schools. It's a major reason most colleges have been opposed to the idea. In
March, the American Council on Education issued a scathing report on the
proposed ratings, detailing the harm that has come from other ranking systems -
such as US News - and questioning the proposed system's ability to be useful,
accurate, or impartial, particularly since it is designed to serve both
consumers and policymakers.

In an attempt to highlight how difficult the government's task will be,
particularly in ferreting out the worst performers and the colleges that
theoretically might be disqualified from receiving federal aid dollars,
Washington Monthly this year tried to compile a list of America's worst schools.
Assigning different degrees of importance to four key measures - net price,
average student debt, loan default rate, and graduation rate - the magazine came
up with very different lists.

"Some nonselective colleges produce admirable graduation rates at an affordable
price to students. Others are lucky to see one-fifth of starting students on
through to graduation. Some charge sky-high prices and graduate students with
large amounts of debt while others may be quite cheap," Ben Miller wrote in
Washington Monthly. He argued that shining a spotlight on some of the
institutions that perform the poorest on these measures may actually do a far
greater service to families who might otherwise apply to them than parsing the
small differences among top colleges.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                            September 8, 2014 Monday

What is America's top college? Depends on who is doing the ranking;
US News & World Report issues its annual rankings of America's colleges and
universities Tuesday. But the 30-year-old ranking faces not only criticism but
increased competition, from everyone from Money and Forbes to the White House.

BYLINE: Amanda Paulson Staff writer

SECTION: USA

LENGTH: 726 words


For the 30th time, US News & World Report will issue its annual ranking of
America's colleges and universities on Tuesday.

Readers can wait with bated breath to see if Princeton (last year's No. 1) will
retain its top spot, or if it will juggle places with Harvard and Yale, the
other two perennially in the top three.

But while the US News rankings remain the most known of the rankings, they're
increasingly getting not only criticism - some education observers have long
blamed them for negatively impacting college affordability - but also
competition.

This year, Money Magazine compiled its own list, emphasizing outcomes over more
nebulous criteria like reputation, and weighing data that pertains to
educational quality, affordability, and career earnings.

The top three? Babson College, Webb Institute, and the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology. Princeton, Stanford, and Harvard quickly follow, but lesser-known
schools like New York's Cooper Union and Harvey Mudd College in Claremont,
Calif., rank well ahead of Yale (No. 15).

The goal, wrote the Money editors, was "to give students and parents a much
better indication of which colleges will provide real value for their tuition
dollars and enhance a student's earning potential."

Washington Monthly, which has been ranking colleges since 2005, also uses a
different sort of criteria in ranking its schools - based on how well colleges
deliver on three public goods: social mobility, commitment to research, and
commitment to service. It now also gives special attention to the best "bang for
your buck" schools.

Forbes, Newsweek, and The Princeton Review all have their own lists.

And the federal government is getting into the game, too. After a bus tour last
fall in which he called attention to college affordability, and the growing
problem of increased student debt and spiraling college costs, President Obama
unveiled a plan to start rating colleges based on things such asrati college
completion rates and sticker price.

"We're going to start rating colleges not just by which college is the most
selective, not just by which college is the most expensive, not just by which
college has the nicest facilities - you can get all of that on the existing
rating systems. What we want to do is rate them on who's offering the best value
so students and taxpayers get a bigger bang for their buck," Obama said at the
time.

Developing that system has been more complicated than the administration
expected, and the Education Department recently announced that it would be
releasing a draft later than expected, with the complete ratings scheduled to be
in place before the beginning of the 2015 school year.

The idea - along with serving as an informational tool for students and an
incentive for colleges to do better - is that eventually, Congress could pass
legislation tying federal aid to those ratings, and disqualifying the worst
schools. It's a major reason most colleges have been opposed to the idea. In
March, the American Council on Education issued a scathing report on the
proposed ratings, detailing the harm that has come from other ranking systems -
such as US News - and questioning the proposed system's ability to be useful,
accurate, or impartial, particularly since it is designed to serve both
consumers and policymakers.

In an attempt to highlight how difficult the government's task will be,
particularly in ferreting out the worst performers and the colleges that
theoretically might be disqualified from receiving federal aid dollars,
Washington Monthly this year tried to compile a list of America's worst schools.
Assigning different degrees of importance to four key measures - net price,
average student debt, loan default rate, and graduation rate - the magazine came
up with very different lists.

"Some nonselective colleges produce admirable graduation rates at an affordable
price to students. Others are lucky to see one-fifth of starting students on
through to graduation. Some charge sky-high prices and graduate students with
large amounts of debt while others may be quite cheap," Ben Miller wrote in
Washington Monthly. He argued that shining a spotlight on some of the
institutions that perform the poorest on these measures may actually do a far
greater service to families who might otherwise apply to them than parsing the
small differences among top colleges.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                             August 23, 2009 Sunday

ISU, IWU get college ranking nods

BYLINE: Pantagraph staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 441 words


NORMAL - Annual U.S. News & World Report college rankings found several area
campuses maintaining similar positions to last year.

Illinois State University in Normal, for example, remained in its third tier
ranking, where it has been since 2002. And Illinois Wesleyan University once
again is in the top tier of its U.S. liberal arts colleges.

IWU is ranked 62 out of 266 U.S. liberal arts colleges. The IWU peer
institutions are defined as schools offering undergraduate degrees, and awarding
at least half their degrees in arts and sciences.

The No. 1 spot went to Williams College in Massachusetts. IWU tied with five
other campuses in its rank. Last year, the Bloomington campus ranked 60.

Subcategories that brought IWU high marks include a selective acceptance rate,
and a nearly perfect retention rate. IWU's 83 percent graduation rate points to
students' success at the school, said Matt Kurz, IWU vice president.

Illinois State is considered among peer schools labeled national universities.
The top spot for the national universities was a tie between Harvard and
Princeton universities.

Third-tier national institutions aren't ranked numerically. But within its
subcategories, ISU officials noted the university improved in its six-year
graduation rate, acceptance rate, and academic reputation categories.

"For Illinois State to achieve a 70 percent graduation rate is a testament to
the quality and hard work of our faculty and support staff," ISU President Al
Bowman said in a statement.

The rankings are based on public data such as graduation and retention rates,
financial resources, alumni donors, and more. However, a portion of each
school's score is based on top administrators' personal opinions of other
schools.

Besides its national rankings, U.S. News also divides 319 baccalaureate colleges
into four regional rankings. These schools are ones that offer a range of
bachelor degree programs in liberal arts and professional fields.

Eureka College

Eureka College ranked 30 among those Midwest colleges in that category, and
fifth among Illinois schools in that category. Last year the college was fourth
in Illinois and 28th in the Midwest.

A key recognition for Eureka officials was a category that shows Eureka
graduates have the fourth-lightest debt load among its college category peers in
the Midwest.

"Eureka College's 'exceptional, not expensive' tag line is supported by (that
ranking)," said Eureka President David Arnold in a statement.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2009 The Pantagraph

                              470 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                            August 9, 2017 Wednesday

BY THE NUMBERS: Dissecting Oklahoma's preseason rankings

BYLINE: By Brooke Pryor Staff Writer bpryor@oklahoman.com

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 682 words


NORMAN - At this point in the college football cycle, everyone is releasing
their preseason rankings.Sports Illustrated, ESPN, Lindy's, Athlon, Phil Steele,
college football coaches, your waiter at Olive Garden.The poll that really
matters, the College Football Playoff ranking, doesn't come out for months, and
yet, everyone has a guess - some more educated than others - on how the top
college football teams will fare in the upcoming season.Traditionally, the
preseason rankings favor OU, but that isn't always an accurate predictor of the
Sooners' success in the coming year. In 11 of Bob Stoops' 18 seasons, Oklahoma
finished lower than its preseason Associated Press ranking.That poll won't be
out for at least two more weeks, but of the eight major preseason lists already
released, OU is a consensus top-10 team."Honestly, it's all about Mayfield,"
ESPN senior writer Ryan McGee wrote in a message. "Yeah, he has to break in
another group of young skill players, but what else is new? He's done that every
year on the job.

The OL is experienced enough to give him time to figure those things out."But I
also think their schedule is a good one. There's plenty time to recover from an
Ohio State loss if needed. And even if their trip-up comes against Texas or OSU,
they can potentially erase that via rematch in December."The rankings range from
No. 9 in Lindy's Football Annual to No. 5 in Phil Steele's College Football
Preview.McGee and a cohort of ESPN college football writers and analysts ranked
OU at No. 7 in their Power Rankings published earlier this month.There's no
doubt that the return of Mayfield coupled with tackle Orlando Brown and the
strength of the offensive line vault OU into the top college football teams of
2017.Defensively, OU has key foundation pieces in defensive end Ogbonnia
Okoronkwo, linebacker Caleb Kelly, cornerback Jordan Thomas and safety Steven
Parker, but how much does the coaching change, questionable defensive line and
departure of Dede Westbrook, Joe Mixon and Samaje Perine affect the
Sooners?According to the preseason rankings, those potentially negative
intangibles don't outweigh the positives that Mayfield, the offensive line and
defensive veterans bring."They definitely have some question marks - replacing
the RBs, Westbrook's big-play potential, and this is Lincoln's first season as a
head coach," Sports Illustrated writer Bruce Feldman wrote in a message. "Then
again, everyone else has sizable questions, too. Clemson has to replace the best
QB/leader they ever had; Ohio State's struggled throwing the ball down the
field; USC has to rebuild most of its O-line and lost its top two WRs; and so on
down the line."For ESPN college football writer Heather Dinich, OU's surprise
coaching change isn't a reason to drop the Sooners lower in the polls."In spite
of his age, Riley is surrounded by head coaching experience," she wrote in an
email. "Tons of it. He told me he's got Bob Stoops, Barry Switzer as resources,
plus former head coaches on staff like Ruffin McNeill, Mike Stoops and Tim Kish.
They will be invaluable to him in his rookie season."For Anthony Gimino of
Lindy's Sports, the biggest factor to OU's No. 9 ranking - the lowest of all
preseason rankings - doesn't have anything to do with Baker Mayfield or the
coaching change. Instead, it has everything to do with the projected success of
the other in-state Big 12 program.After conferring with other college football
writers, Gimino ranked Oklahoma State No. 5 and picked the Cowboys to win the
Big 12. The ripple effect nearly bumped OU out of the top-10."With the Cowboys
as No. 1 in the Big 12, that means we see at least two losses for the Sooners -
at Ohio State, at Oklahoma State," Gimino wrote. "Where would a two-loss
(at-best), non-champ Oklahoma land in the rankings? Somewhere 7 to 9 sounds
reasonable. We have them ninth."Sports Illustrated also has the Cowboys ahead of
the Sooners, ranking OSU No. 4.But, at the end of the day, wherever the Sooners
are ranked before the season, it's all a guessing game until the season finally
kicks off Sept. 2.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                            August 9, 2017 Wednesday

BY THE NUMBERS: Dissecting Oklahoma's preseason rankings

BYLINE: By Brooke Pryor Staff Writer bpryor@oklahoman.com

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 682 words


NORMAN - At this point in the college football cycle, everyone is releasing
their preseason rankings.Sports Illustrated, ESPN, Lindy's, Athlon, Phil Steele,
college football coaches, your waiter at Olive Garden.The poll that really
matters, the College Football Playoff ranking, doesn't come out for months, and
yet, everyone has a guess - some more educated than others - on how the top
college football teams will fare in the upcoming season.Traditionally, the
preseason rankings favor OU, but that isn't always an accurate predictor of the
Sooners' success in the coming year. In 11 of Bob Stoops' 18 seasons, Oklahoma
finished lower than its preseason Associated Press ranking.That poll won't be
out for at least two more weeks, but of the eight major preseason lists already
released, OU is a consensus top-10 team."Honestly, it's all about Mayfield,"
ESPN senior writer Ryan McGee wrote in a message. "Yeah, he has to break in
another group of young skill players, but what else is new? He's done that every
year on the job.

The OL is experienced enough to give him time to figure those things out."But I
also think their schedule is a good one. There's plenty time to recover from an
Ohio State loss if needed. And even if their trip-up comes against Texas or OSU,
they can potentially erase that via rematch in December."The rankings range from
No. 9 in Lindy's Football Annual to No. 5 in Phil Steele's College Football
Preview.McGee and a cohort of ESPN college football writers and analysts ranked
OU at No. 7 in their Power Rankings published earlier this month.There's no
doubt that the return of Mayfield coupled with tackle Orlando Brown and the
strength of the offensive line vault OU into the top college football teams of
2017.Defensively, OU has key foundation pieces in defensive end Ogbonnia
Okoronkwo, linebacker Caleb Kelly, cornerback Jordan Thomas and safety Steven
Parker, but how much does the coaching change, questionable defensive line and
departure of Dede Westbrook, Joe Mixon and Samaje Perine affect the
Sooners?According to the preseason rankings, those potentially negative
intangibles don't outweigh the positives that Mayfield, the offensive line and
defensive veterans bring."They definitely have some question marks - replacing
the RBs, Westbrook's big-play potential, and this is Lincoln's first season as a
head coach," Sports Illustrated writer Bruce Feldman wrote in a message. "Then
again, everyone else has sizable questions, too. Clemson has to replace the best
QB/leader they ever had; Ohio State's struggled throwing the ball down the
field; USC has to rebuild most of its O-line and lost its top two WRs; and so on
down the line."For ESPN college football writer Heather Dinich, OU's surprise
coaching change isn't a reason to drop the Sooners lower in the polls."In spite
of his age, Riley is surrounded by head coaching experience," she wrote in an
email. "Tons of it. He told me he's got Bob Stoops, Barry Switzer as resources,
plus former head coaches on staff like Ruffin McNeill, Mike Stoops and Tim Kish.
They will be invaluable to him in his rookie season."For Anthony Gimino of
Lindy's Sports, the biggest factor to OU's No. 9 ranking - the lowest of all
preseason rankings - doesn't have anything to do with Baker Mayfield or the
coaching change. Instead, it has everything to do with the projected success of
the other in-state Big 12 program.After conferring with other college football
writers, Gimino ranked Oklahoma State No. 5 and picked the Cowboys to win the
Big 12. The ripple effect nearly bumped OU out of the top-10."With the Cowboys
as No. 1 in the Big 12, that means we see at least two losses for the Sooners -
at Ohio State, at Oklahoma State," Gimino wrote. "Where would a two-loss
(at-best), non-champ Oklahoma land in the rankings? Somewhere 7 to 9 sounds
reasonable. We have them ninth."Sports Illustrated also has the Cowboys ahead of
the Sooners, ranking OSU No. 4.But, at the end of the day, wherever the Sooners
are ranked before the season, it's all a guessing game until the season finally
kicks off Sept. 2.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             August 21, 1998 Friday
                              Correction Appended

LOCAL COLLEGES MAKE MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL;
CARLETON, MACALESTER, U OF M AMONG THOSE IN U.S. NEWS & WORLD REPORT

BYLINE: Judith Yates Borger, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 345 words


Carleton College in Northfield, Macalester College in St. Paul and the
University of Minnesota in the Twin Cities once again made U.S. News & World
Report's annual ranking of best colleges.

In rankings released today, Carleton tied with Wesleyan University in
Connecticut for ninth this year. Carleton ranked seventh last year, but the drop
appears to be linked to refinements in the magazine's evaluation system rather
than changes in program quality.

Macalester, meanwhile, rose a notch, from 25th to 24th place, tying with Barnard
College in New York, Colorado College, Connecticut College and Oberlin College
in Ohio.

The University of Minnesota in the Twin Cities maintained 17th place among the
top 50 national universities, tying with the University of California at Santa
Cruz, University of Texas at Austin, and University of Washington.

Other Minnesota schools to make the list are Gustavus Adolphus and St. Olaf
among the second tier of national liberal arts colleges and the College of St.
Benedict and St. John's University in the third tier. Concordia College in
Moorhead and the University of Minnesota at Morris are ranked among the fourth
tier of national liberal arts colleges.

The University of St. Thomas came in ninth among the best Midwestern
universities and Bethel College ranked ninth among the best Midwestern liberal
arts colleges.

In the national rankings, Harvard University and Princeton tied for No. 1 among
the best universities, as they did last year. Yale also tied for No. 1, up from
No. 3 last year. Other top 10 schools are Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Stanford University, Cornell University, Duke University, University of
Pennsylvania, California Institute of Technology, Brown University, Columbia
University, Dartmouth University and Northwestern University.

The magazine issue and guidebook hit the newsstands Monday. The rankings are
also available online at www.usnews.com .

Judith Yates Borger, who covers higher education, can be reached at
jborger@pioneerpress.com, or (651) 228-5297.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: A shorter version appears in the City edition on Page 1D.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 22, 1998



CORRECTION: An article on Friday left Hamline University off a report on the
list of Minnesota schools included in the third tier of national liberal arts
colleges in the ranking of colleges and universities released by U.S. News &
World Report. A complete list of the magazine's 12th annual rankings is
available over the Internet at www.usnews.com .
08/22/98

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            October 2, 2014 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

RANKINGS NOT MOST IMPORTANT IN CHOOSING A COLLEGE

BYLINE: Alex Nieves, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: EDUCATION; Pg. ED-3

LENGTH: 542 words


Ask just about any college-bound high school student about what the best schools
are and what schools interest him or her and the answer will probably sound as
if he or she is reading directly from the pages of the U.S. News & World Report
rankings.

The myriad arbitrary collegiate rankings systems available online today, from
U.S. News to Princeton Review to Forbes, have become a major selling point for
elite institutions, which profit from increased publicity and dwindling
acceptance rates.

The rankings also have been a major sticking point for students and parents who
feel a sense of inadequacy at the idea of being affiliated with a school outside
the top rankings.

However, the fact is rankings alone do not determine what a student's college
experience will be, whether a school is a good fit and how successful the
student will be after graduation.

So, my first piece of advice to high school students stuck in the seemingly
impossible task of narrowing down a list of colleges to just 10 or 15 worthy
candidates is to throw away the rankings books.

College rankings are based on a variety of individual factors such as acceptance
rates, retention rates and even reputation as determined by administrators from
other institutions.

Each ranking system uses a formula that prioritizes these factors in different
orders, which accounts for the wide variation.

For example, my school, Occidental College in Los Angeles, is ranked as the
41st-best liberal arts school by U.S. News and the 84th-best private school by
Forbes.

What effect have these numbers had on my three years at Occidental? Well, not
much, to tell the truth.

So if the rankings do not really tell much of the story, what are the more
important factors in finding the right fit?

The first thing that is going to help a student find the right school is to
spend some time really thinking about the student's likes and dislikes. Is the
student shy or outgoing? Does he or she like the big city or the suburbs?

Understanding these sorts of personal factors will go a long way in finding an
appropriate school.

Next, the student should sit down with a trusted person who is knowledgeable
about the college process, such as a high school counselor.

But the most important thing that a student can do is visit as many schools as
possible. This may seem like a hassle when so much information about schools is
available online. However, would you buy a car online without a test drive
first? So why would you make an important decision about a school without ever
seeing it in person?

From my freshman year in high school on, I visited a wide variety of colleges.
On these visits, I fell in love with the small, community feel of private
liberal arts colleges and felt overwhelmed by the big schools that I had once
dreamed of attending.

This made choosing Occidental a no-brainer.

If at all possible, a student should take overnight visits to the schools that
he or she is interested in.

Nothing will make the decision easier than actually seeing the school in action
for a day, attending classes, eating the food and living with real college
students.

If you go into these visits without preconceived notions, you will be able to
fully appreciate the school for everything it does or does not offer.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDUCATION PLANNING GUIDE / Alex Nieves of Santa Clarita, Calif., who was
a summer intern at the Post-Gazette, is a senior majoring in diplomacy and world
affairs at Occidental College. He can be reached at localnews@post-gazette.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alex Nieves

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.

                              474 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                           September 12, 2017 Tuesday

Are U.S. college rankings "[#x2dc]bad for education?': 5 things to know today

BYLINE: by NATASHA LINDSTROM

LENGTH: 1179 words


Today marks a day dreaded by many university officials nationwide: the annual
release of college rankings by U.S. News & World Report.

The rankings have been around for decades, and whether or not they matter to
parents and students, they remain deeply significant to university leadership ""
perhaps too important, a Politico investigation found.

College officials pay so much attention to the rankings that some have used
billions of dollars and adjusted long-term strategic plans and admissions goals
specifically to move up on the list, Politico's Benjamin Wermund reports.

That's worrisome because the criteria prioritized in the rankings "create
incentives for schools to favor wealthier students over less wealthy applicants"
and could be exacerbating economic inequality, Wermund writes. Louisiana State
University President F. King Alexander went so far as to say he believes "U.S.
News has done more damage to the higher education marketplace than any single
enterprise that's out there."

Robert Morse, chief data strategist for U.S. News, emphasized the rankings
aren't intended to sway school officials to change admission standards. He
further argued that 30 years of rankings has spurred greater transparency on the
part of colleges, noting "there's no perfect indicator and there's no perfect
ranking."

In case you care as much as academics do, Princeton University took the No. 1
spot in 2018, followed by Harvard, University of Chicago, Yale, Columbia
University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The Trib's Jamie Martines
outlines the report's highlights here. (Spoiler: The University of Pennsylvania
was the only Pennsylvania school to make the top 20; Carnegie Mellon University
came in at No. 25).

Here are five more education-related items to know today:

1). COLLEGE PRESIDENTS UNITE AGAINST RAPE: When it comes to preventing rape,
"it's not enough to simply deal with the issue once it's happened; we have to
change the culture," Seton Hill University President Mary Finger said Monday
during an event organized by the Southwest PA Says No More coalition, the Trib's
Jamie Martines reports.

More than a dozen university leaders joined elected officials, law enforcement
and victim advocates from Allegheny and Westmoreland counties in a collective
pledge to reduce and better respond to sexual assaults on college campuses.

Nationwide, at least 255 colleges are actively investigating some 360 sexual
violence investigations, the Chronicle of Higher Education's Title IX tracker
shows. The figure includes 20 active investigations at 15 Pennsylvania colleges.

Monday's commitment by local university officials "not to move backwards" in
dealing with sexual assault follows last week's controversial move by Education
Secretary Betsy DeVos to replace what she branded as a "failed system" of
responding to sexual assaults propagated by the Obama administration.

2). PLUM SCHOOLS APPROVES SEX-ABUSE SETTLEMENT: The Plum Borough School District
board voted unanimously Monday night to approve a settlement with a woman who
accused school officials of failing to investigate accusations of sexual
assaults by a politically powerful teacher who's now behind bars, the Trib's
Michael DiVittorio reports.

School officials refused to disclose the proposed amount of the settlement until
all parties involved sign off on it.

The woman identified only as Jane Doe who filed the federal lawsuit last
September claimed that administrators allowed former high school teacher Joseph
Ruggieri to prey on her and other students. She said she was 17 when Ruggieri
began having sex with her.

The civil lawsuit follows a far-reaching criminal investigation into the school
district. A 100-page grand jury report in spring 2016 concluded that Plum
administrators had turned "a blind eye to obvious signs of teacher misconduct"
that allowed a "suspected serial child predator" to continue teaching years
before his arrest. The grand jury did not recommend criminal charges against any
administrators.

Ruggieri is serving a two- to five-year prison sentence after pleading guilty to
sexual assault, corrupting a minor and witness intimidation.

3). HUMANITARIAN CRISIS DEEPENS IN CONGO: The figure is jarring: More than 7.4
million children are not in school in Congo amid intensified violence that has
displaced 850,000 children and destroyed more than 900 schools, the Associated
Press reports from Senegal.

The Norwegian Refugee Council announced the estimates on Monday.

The council warned that violence in the past year in Congo's central Kasai
region threatens to have "detrimental effects to the socio-economics of the
entire country."

In towns such as Kalemie and Tanganyika, 92 percent of children ages 6 to 11 are
out of school, and only 4 percent of expected education-related humanitarian aid
has been received this year, the council said.

Children in central Africa's conflict zones further remain at risk of being
abducted and turned into child soldiers.

4). RUSSIA CONDEMNS UKRAINIAN LANGUAGE LAW: The Russian government isn't happy
about a new education law in the Ukraine.

The law approved last week specifies Ukrainian "" and not Russian "" must be the
main language used in schools, the Associated Press reports.

The Russia Foreign Ministry, however, slammed the legislation as designed to
"forcefully establish a mono-ethnic language regime in a multi-national state."

Officials in neighboring Hungary, Romania and Poland also were displeased.

5). NO DEPORTATION AGENTS ALLOWED: California's undocumented students would be
safe from surveillance or potential raids by federal immigration agents under
proposed legislation to bar officers from schools unless they have a warrant,
the Sacramento Bee reports.

Senate Bill 183 also would cover all state-owned buildings, including
courthouses.

California Superintendent of Schools Tom Torlakson already has encouraged the
state's schools to deem themselves "safe havens" from Immigrations and Customs
Enforcement "" a move similar to one taken by Pittsburgh Public Schools in
January when it became a "sanctuary" district.

State Sen. Ricardo Lara, a Democrat, introduced the bill three days after
President Trump made the protest-spurring  announcement that he will end the
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program in six months.

EXTRA CREDIT: Still not sure what the fuss over DACA is all about? The Trib has
you covered with this explainer on DACA, who it protects, what it does and
doesn't do and why even DACA recipients don't have a clear path to citizenship.)

Don't forget to follow the TribLIVE Education Team on Twitter:

"¢ Emily Balser @emilybalser (Valley News Dispatch newsroom)

"¢ Debra Erdley @deberdley_Trib (Greensburg newsroom)

"¢ Jamie Martines @Jamie_Martines (Greensburg newsroom)

"¢ Natasha Lindstrom @NewsNatasha (Pittsburgh newsroom)

Or email us your schools-related tips and story ideas to schooltips@tribweb.com

Natasha Lindstrom is a Tribune-Review staff writer. Reach her at 412-380-8514,
nlindstrom@tribweb.com or on Twitter @NewsNatasha.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2017 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    September 7, 2001, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Princeton tops college list

BYLINE: Mary Beth Marklein

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 568 words

Princeton University in New Jersey is the best national doctorate-granting
institution of higher education for the second straight year, says U.S. News &
World Report in its latest rankings.

Amherst College in Massachusetts and Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania tied for
the best national liberal-arts institution, the magazine says.

The top rankings remain nearly identical to last year's lists.


Nearly 1,400 institutions are ranked in the magazine, which launched its popular
and controversial "America's Best Colleges" guide in 1983. U.S. News used the
same formula as last year, including criteria such as graduation rate, alumni
giving, retention and student selectivity.

This year, however, it recategorized about 200 schools and added about 50 more
to reflect recent changes to a widely accepted system of classifying
institutions. Those categories include national universities that grant
doctorates, universities (presented by geographical region in U.S. News) that
award undergraduate and master's degrees, and colleges that primarily award
bachelor's degrees in the liberal arts. That system was created and revised by
the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.

Meanwhile, complaints continue about the magazine's annual rankings. Most
critics argue that the criteria used by U.S. News to assess colleges are
inappropriate, misleading and counterproductive to the already stressful college
admissions process.

In the September issue of Washington Monthly, an article co-written by a former
U.S. News staff member who oversaw the rankings for 18 months in the late 1990s
says the guide "pays scant attention to measures of learning or good educational
practice." Instead, the article says, "U.S. News' rankings primarily register a
school's wealth, reputation and the achievement of the high school students it
admits."

In the 2002 edition, editors urge readers to use the rankings to develop or hone
a list of colleges -- but not to make a final choice.

In the past few years, several education researchers have been developing
alternative tools they say will better help students and their parents select a
college. For example, one method attempts to measure student-faculty
interaction; another tries to identify potential college choices based on a
student's goals and values.

About two-thirds of new high school graduates go on to college every year. The
U.S. News guide, which costs $ 7.95, is available on newsstands Monday.

For a full list: www.usnews.com



National universities

This year's U.S. News rankings say the top national universities granting
doctoral degrees, in order, are:

1. Princeton University

2. Harvard University

2. Yale University

4. California Institute of Technology

5. Massachusetts Institute of Technology

5. Stanford University

5. University of Pennsylvania

8. Duke University

9. Columbia University

9. Dartmouth College

9. University of Chicago

Liberal arts

The top national liberal arts schools, U.S. News says, are:

1. Amherst College

1. Swarthmore College

3. Williams College

4. Wellesley College

5. Bowdoin College

5. Carleton College

5. Haverford College

5. Pomona College

9. Middlebury College

10. Davidson College

LOAD-DATE: September 07, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              476 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                          September 12, 2012 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

HIGHER EDUCATION;
Emory retains top 20 ranking

BYLINE: Laura Diamond; Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 908 words



HIGHLIGHT: Accurate data stressed for collegiate survey. Inflating figures in
past years had little if any effect, experts agree.


Emory University didn't have to lie to be ranked among the nation's top
colleges.

Nearly a month ago the school admitted that for more than a decade it
intentionally misreported data to groups that rate colleges. New rankings
released today by U.S. News & World Report still list Emory as the No. 20
college in the country.

That's the same position it had the previous two years when officials sent
inflated figures about its students. Emory officials certified the information
sent this time was accurate.

"They didn't have to do it," said Rita Kirshstein, an Emory graduate and
director of the Delta Cost Project, a Washington-based group that studies higher
education spending and affordability. "There was no reason for them to fudge the
data."

Emory's news release on the rankings affirmed the accuracy of the information
sent to U.S. News. Other than that, it made little reference to the data scandal
that has drawn national attention.

"An education at Emory University is the sum total of many distinguished
components that are difficult to aggregate and rank in one numerical grade,"
Provost Earl Lewis said in a statement. "Whatever 'marks' we might be assigned
by others, Emory by any measure is one of the world's leading centers of
discovery and learning."

College rankings feed the country's appetite for lists and for knowing what's
considered the best. Many students and parents look at the rankings when
deciding where to apply and attend, with some refusing to consider schools that
fail to earn a high mark. Colleges with strong spots advertise their standing in
promotional materials, knowing it attracts academic prestige and higher-caliber
students.

Emory says it hasn't determined why and when the misreporting began, but outside
experts reason it was driven by the pressure to remain a top-20 school. Emory
has been in that tier for 20 consecutive years.

The school had previously sent test score data for admitted students instead of
those who had enrolled, which inflated the school's reported SAT and ACT test
scores. It also overstated the percentage of incoming students who graduated in
the top 10 percent of their high school classes. And it "may have" excluded the
scores of the bottom 10 percent of students when reporting information about
incoming classes, officials said.

The university's new dean of undergraduate admissions noticed the data
discrepancy in May, which triggered an internal investigation. Officials said
steps are being taken to make sure data is reported correctly.

The investigation concluded that two former admission deans and leadership in
the Office of Institutional Research were aware of the misreporting. They no
longer work at Emory and did not return phone calls for comment.

U.S. News previously said the false information would not have affected the
college's standing the previous two years and would have had a "small to
negligible" effect in years before then.

The quality of students who attend Emory was part of a category that counted as
15 percent of the college's rank this year, said Robert Morse, the magazine's
director of data research.

The largest factor, counting as 22.5 percent of Emory's score, is a set of
surveys that rate a school's academic reputation. This year's surveys were
turned in before Emory disclosed its data deception, so Morse said it won't be
known until next year whether the situation has harmed the school's reputation.

Higher education knows "Emory was naughty," Kirshstein said, but it remains a
strong college that has only grown stronger in recent years.

She expects the school will remain popular with students. Emory received nearly
17,500 applications for the 1,350 spots in this year's freshman class.

The issue is bigger than Emory's standing and reputation, said Lloyd Thacker, a
rankings critic and director of the Education Conservancy, which works to reduce
competitive pressures in admissions.

"What does it say about the rankings and the faith people wrongly place in
them?" Thacker said. "It shows how ridiculous these things are."

EMORY RANKINGS

Emory University has been a top 20 school for 20 years. Here's where the school
landed in recent years:

Edition Ranking

2013 20

2012 20

2011 20

2010 17

2009 18

Source: U.S. News & World Report and Emory University

OTHER GEORGIA COLLEGES

Several Georgia colleges appeared in the U.S. News rankings. Here are some
examples:

Georgia Tech --- No. 7 among national public universities and No. 36 among
national public and private universities.

University of Georgia --- Tied with University of Connecticut at No. 21 among
national public universities and tied with UConn at No. 63 among national public
and private universities.

Spelman College --- No. 1 among historically black colleges.

Morehouse College --- No. 3 among historically black colleges.

Source: U.S. News & World Report, Best Colleges 2013.

RANKING METHODOLOGY

U.S. News uses statistical data and subjective surveys when ranking colleges.
Here are the weighted measures for "National Universities and National Liberal
Arts Colleges," a category that includes Emory University, Georgia Tech and the
University of Georgia.

Undergraduate academic reputation 22.5%

Graduation and retention rates 20%

Faculty resources 20%

Student selectivity 15%

Financial resources 10%

Graduation rate performance* 7.5%

Alumni giving 5%

*Graduation rate performance is the difference between actual and predicted
graduation rates.

Source: U.S. News & World Report, Best Colleges 2013.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2012 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                              477 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 18, 2017 Monday

U.S. News & World Report continues to rank LCSC high in the West

LENGTH: 321  words



Lewiston: Lewis-Clark State College has issued the following news release:
Lewis-Clark State College continues to be one of the higher ranked public
institutions in the West, according to U.S. News & World Report in its annual
Best Colleges rankings released on Tuesday.


LCSC moved up to No. 5 among the Top Public Schools in the West, a category that
includes everything west of Oklahoma and the Dakotas. LCSC was tied for sixth a
year ago and has been consistently ranked in the Top 10 for years.
For the second straight year, LCSC was listed No. 23 in colleges in the West
overall rankings, which include both public and privates colleges. This ranking
is for colleges that focus on undergraduate education but award fewer than half
of their degrees in the liberal arts.
U.S. News & World Report rankings are based on data collected from each college
in as many as 15 areas of academic excellence. These areas include graduation
and retention rates (22.5 percent of the college's overall score) undergraduate
academic reputation (22.5 percent), faculty resources (20 percent), student
selectivity (12.5 percent), financial resources (10 percent), graduate rate
performance (7.5 percent) and alumni giving rate (5 percent).
LCSC has the lowest tuition among Idaho's four-year public institutions and has
an enrollment of close to 4,000 students. LCSC was one of more than 1,800
colleges and universities to submit data to be included in rankings, which
started in 1983 to provide college-bound students information on schools and to
make comparisons.
Lewis-Clark State College, which is known for its personal attention to students
with a student-faculty ratio of 14:1 and nearly 75 percent of its classes having
20 or fewer students, was founded in 1893 and will celebrate its 125th birthday
next year.
 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 2, 2013 Friday

Hofstra Recognized Among Top Colleges and Universities in New York for Return on
Investment

LENGTH: 211  words

DATELINE: Hempstead


Hofstra University has issued the following news release:

The value of a Hofstra degree ranks in the top 25 for return on investment among
colleges and universities in New York state, according to a leading national
resource center for information on college costs and affordability.

The ranking by Affordable College Online represents institutions where graduates
go on to earn more over their lifetimes, on average, than graduates of other New
York colleges and universities. The website rated institutions based on several
factors, including tuition and fees and graduate starting salaries, to come up
with the rankings.  Out of 472 New York colleges and universities that were
analyzed, 84 were ranked.

Affordable Colleges Online (www.affordablecollegesonline.org) is a
not-for-profit resource center that provides information about college cost,
financial aid and college rankings for prospective college students and their
families.

To calculate the rankings, the website used data from the federal Department of
Education,  Payscale.com, an online compensation aggregator, and the Carnegie
Foundation, which classifies U.S. colleges and universities based on factors
including research and degrees offered.

For more information please visit: http://www.hofstra.edu.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          February 25, 2015 Wednesday

Cal Poly Rated Most Efficient University in the West by U.S. News

LENGTH: 548  words

DATELINE: San Luis Obispo


California Polytechnic State University has issued the following news release:

Cal Poly is rated the most efficient school among regional western universities
in a U.S. News & World Report analysis that compared spending and educational
quality.

U.S. News looked at the public and private colleges that scored the highest on
overall undergraduate academic educational quality -- as measured by their
position in the magazine's 2015 Best Colleges rankings -- but that spent
relatively less on their educational programs to achieve that quality.

According to the magazine, schools such as Cal Poly are doing a good job in
managing their financial resources relative to other institutions that may have
far greater resources because of more state funding, higher tuition or a larger
endowment.

"This is yet another indicator of the quality and value of a Cal Poly
education," said university President Jeffrey D. Armstrong. "This ranking shows
parents, current and future students, alumni and taxpayers that we are being
judicious stewards in our mission to deliver a high-quality, cost-effective
education."

It's vital for colleges to efficiently spend their limited resources to produce
the highest possible educational quality amid a climate of diminishing state
support and increased public scrutiny about the rising cost of going to college,
the magazine said in a report released in January.

U.S. News measured financial resources by taking into account how much a school
spends per student on instruction, research, student services and related
educational expenditures. The financial resources indicator has a 10 percent
weight in the Best Colleges ranking methodology.

The latest rankings are based on operating efficiency, which the magazine
defines as a school's 2013 fiscal year financial resources per student divided
by its overall score in the 2015 Best Colleges rankings, which were released in
September. Cal Poly ranked 10th in the magazine's overall list of the West's
best universities on the Best Colleges list and was named the top public,
masters-level university in the west for the 22nd consecutive year

The university's spending per student for each point in U.S. News overall
efficiency score was $222.36 -- lowest among the top five western regional
universities. The other schools were: Western Washington University, $229.07;
California State University at Long Beach, $236.88; Cal Poly Pomona, $237.04;
and Gonzaga University, $245.34.

The calculation reveals how much each school is spending to achieve one point in
its overall score and thus its position in this year's Best Colleges rankings.
The premise of the analysis is that the less a school spent relative to its
position in the overall rankings, the more efficient it was in its ability to
produce a top-quality education, the magazine said.

Only schools that were numerically ranked in the top half of their ranking
category in the 2015 Best Colleges rankings were included in this analysis.

U.S. News & World Report published its first "America's Best Colleges" report in
1983. The rankings -- the most widely quoted of their kind in the nation -- have
been compiled and published annually since 1985.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday

Where do Oklahoma colleges fall on just-released rankings list?

BYLINE: BY K.S. MCNUTT, Staff Writer

SECTION:

LENGTH: 752 words


U.S. News &amp; World Report on Tuesday released the 30th edition of its Best
Colleges rankings.Three Oklahoma universities are included on the National
Universities Rankings list. Six are on the Regional Universities Rankings list
and five others on the Regional Colleges Rankings list.The 2015 rankings offer
data on almost 1,800 schools. The rankings are based on up to 16 measures of
academic excellence, such as graduation and retention rates, faculty resources,
student selectivity and financial resources.Princeton University topped the
national list of 200 research universities that offer a full range of
undergraduate majors, plus master's and doctoral programs. Harvard University
and Yale University were ranked second and third.Oklahoma schools on the list
are:Number 88: University of Tulsa, tied with six other institutions;Number 106:
University of Oklahoma, tied with six others, including Big XII schools Iowa
State University and University of Kansas;Number 145: Oklahoma State University,
tied with three others.West regionRegional rankings place schools into four
geographic categories.

The West region includes Oklahoma, Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado,
Hawaii, Idaho, New Mexico, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, Texas, Utah, Washington and
Wyoming.Rankings are broken into universities that offer a full range of
undergraduate programs and some master's programs but few doctoral programs, and
colleges that focus on undergraduate education but grant fewer than half their
degrees in liberal arts disciplines.Oklahoma schools on the West universities
list are:Number 25: Oklahoma City University, tied with an Oregon school;Number
40: Oklahoma Christian University, tied with two California schools;Number 46:
Oral Roberts University, tied with two West Coast schools;Number 75: University
of Central Oklahoma, tied with three other institutions;Number 84: Southern
Nazarene University and Northeastern State University, tied with five
others.Oklahoma City University and Oklahoma Christian University, also were
recognized as A-Plus Schools for B Students, colleges and universities that
accept applicants whose scores are not A and help them achieve their
goals.President Robert Henry issued a statement crediting outstanding students,
experienced faculty and challenging academic programs for OCU's high ranking
."Our low student-to-faculty ratio and experiential learning environment gives
students creative educational opportunities. We are committed to helping
students rise to their dreams," Henry said.This is the 16th straight year U.S.
News &amp; World Report has honored Oklahoma Christian, President John
deSteiguer noted in a statement."We are thrilled to be honored again as one of
the best universities in the West," deSteiguer said. "I'm also proud of this
recognition of our A-plus approach to B students. It speaks to the heart and
quality of our professors, who work alongside our students to bring out their
best and help them discover their gifts."UCO President Don Betz noted the
institution is the top public regional university in the state. The ranking
affirms the university's continued commitment to transforming the lives of its
students and preparing them to be agents of change in both Oklahoma and the
world, Betz said.Oklahoma schools on the West colleges list are:Number 4:
Oklahoma Baptist UniversityNumber 6: Oklahoma Wesleyan College, in
BartlesvilleNumber 23: Southwestern Christian University, in BethanyNumber 24:
Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology-OkmulgeeNumber 25: St.
Gregory's UniversityOther factorsThe American Council of Trustees and Alumni
responded to the release of the U.S. News college rankings with a news release
stating the annual reports lacks crucial information needed to choose the right
school.Students and parents need facts about the academic expectations of
colleges and what is going on in the classroom, said Michael Poliakoff, director
of the council's What Will They Learn? project.Poliakoff said colleges and
universities should require all students take basic classes in core subjects
such as writing, math, science, economics, U.S. history and foreign language.
Only 18 percent require students to take an American history course, 14 percent
require foreign language and only 3 percent require economics, he said.What Will
They Learn?, which is online at www.whatwilltheylearn.com, is a database of
almost 1,100 colleges and universities that grades institutions on what courses
students are required to take.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday

Where do Oklahoma colleges fall on just-released rankings list?

BYLINE: BY K.S. MCNUTT, Staff Writer

SECTION:

LENGTH: 752 words


U.S. News &amp; World Report on Tuesday released the 30th edition of its Best
Colleges rankings.Three Oklahoma universities are included on the National
Universities Rankings list. Six are on the Regional Universities Rankings list
and five others on the Regional Colleges Rankings list.The 2015 rankings offer
data on almost 1,800 schools. The rankings are based on up to 16 measures of
academic excellence, such as graduation and retention rates, faculty resources,
student selectivity and financial resources.Princeton University topped the
national list of 200 research universities that offer a full range of
undergraduate majors, plus master's and doctoral programs. Harvard University
and Yale University were ranked second and third.Oklahoma schools on the list
are:Number 88: University of Tulsa, tied with six other institutions;Number 106:
University of Oklahoma, tied with six others, including Big XII schools Iowa
State University and University of Kansas;Number 145: Oklahoma State University,
tied with three others.West regionRegional rankings place schools into four
geographic categories.

The West region includes Oklahoma, Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado,
Hawaii, Idaho, New Mexico, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, Texas, Utah, Washington and
Wyoming.Rankings are broken into universities that offer a full range of
undergraduate programs and some master's programs but few doctoral programs, and
colleges that focus on undergraduate education but grant fewer than half their
degrees in liberal arts disciplines.Oklahoma schools on the West universities
list are:Number 25: Oklahoma City University, tied with an Oregon school;Number
40: Oklahoma Christian University, tied with two California schools;Number 46:
Oral Roberts University, tied with two West Coast schools;Number 75: University
of Central Oklahoma, tied with three other institutions;Number 84: Southern
Nazarene University and Northeastern State University, tied with five
others.Oklahoma City University and Oklahoma Christian University, also were
recognized as A-Plus Schools for B Students, colleges and universities that
accept applicants whose scores are not A and help them achieve their
goals.President Robert Henry issued a statement crediting outstanding students,
experienced faculty and challenging academic programs for OCU's high ranking
."Our low student-to-faculty ratio and experiential learning environment gives
students creative educational opportunities. We are committed to helping
students rise to their dreams," Henry said.This is the 16th straight year U.S.
News &amp; World Report has honored Oklahoma Christian, President John
deSteiguer noted in a statement."We are thrilled to be honored again as one of
the best universities in the West," deSteiguer said. "I'm also proud of this
recognition of our A-plus approach to B students. It speaks to the heart and
quality of our professors, who work alongside our students to bring out their
best and help them discover their gifts."UCO President Don Betz noted the
institution is the top public regional university in the state. The ranking
affirms the university's continued commitment to transforming the lives of its
students and preparing them to be agents of change in both Oklahoma and the
world, Betz said.Oklahoma schools on the West colleges list are:Number 4:
Oklahoma Baptist UniversityNumber 6: Oklahoma Wesleyan College, in
BartlesvilleNumber 23: Southwestern Christian University, in BethanyNumber 24:
Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology-OkmulgeeNumber 25: St.
Gregory's UniversityOther factorsThe American Council of Trustees and Alumni
responded to the release of the U.S. News college rankings with a news release
stating the annual reports lacks crucial information needed to choose the right
school.Students and parents need facts about the academic expectations of
colleges and what is going on in the classroom, said Michael Poliakoff, director
of the council's What Will They Learn? project.Poliakoff said colleges and
universities should require all students take basic classes in core subjects
such as writing, math, science, economics, U.S. history and foreign language.
Only 18 percent require students to take an American history course, 14 percent
require foreign language and only 3 percent require economics, he said.What Will
They Learn?, which is online at www.whatwilltheylearn.com, is a database of
almost 1,100 colleges and universities that grades institutions on what courses
students are required to take.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday

Where do Oklahoma colleges fall on just-released rankings list?

BYLINE: BY K.S. MCNUTT Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 752 words


U.S. News &amp; World Report on Tuesday released the 30th edition of its Best
Colleges rankings.Three Oklahoma universities are included on the National
Universities Rankings list. Six are on the Regional Universities Rankings list
and five others on the Regional Colleges Rankings list.The 2015 rankings offer
data on almost 1,800 schools. The rankings are based on up to 16 measures of
academic excellence, such as graduation and retention rates, faculty resources,
student selectivity and financial resources.Princeton University topped the
national list of 200 research universities that offer a full range of
undergraduate majors, plus master's and doctoral programs. Harvard University
and Yale University were ranked second and third.Oklahoma schools on the list
are:Number 88: University of Tulsa, tied with six other institutions;Number 106:
University of Oklahoma, tied with six others, including Big XII schools Iowa
State University and University of Kansas;Number 145: Oklahoma State University,
tied with three others.West regionRegional rankings place schools into four
geographic categories.

The West region includes Oklahoma, Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado,
Hawaii, Idaho, New Mexico, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, Texas, Utah, Washington and
Wyoming.Rankings are broken into universities that offer a full range of
undergraduate programs and some master's programs but few doctoral programs, and
colleges that focus on undergraduate education but grant fewer than half their
degrees in liberal arts disciplines.Oklahoma schools on the West universities
list are:Number 25: Oklahoma City University, tied with an Oregon school;Number
40: Oklahoma Christian University, tied with two California schools;Number 46:
Oral Roberts University, tied with two West Coast schools;Number 75: University
of Central Oklahoma, tied with three other institutions;Number 84: Southern
Nazarene University and Northeastern State University, tied with five
others.Oklahoma City University and Oklahoma Christian University, also were
recognized as A-Plus Schools for B Students, colleges and universities that
accept applicants whose scores are not A and help them achieve their
goals.President Robert Henry issued a statement crediting outstanding students,
experienced faculty and challenging academic programs for OCU's high ranking
."Our low student-to-faculty ratio and experiential learning environment gives
students creative educational opportunities. We are committed to helping
students rise to their dreams," Henry said.This is the 16th straight year U.S.
News &amp; World Report has honored Oklahoma Christian, President John
deSteiguer noted in a statement."We are thrilled to be honored again as one of
the best universities in the West," deSteiguer said. "I'm also proud of this
recognition of our A-plus approach to B students. It speaks to the heart and
quality of our professors, who work alongside our students to bring out their
best and help them discover their gifts."UCO President Don Betz noted the
institution is the top public regional university in the state. The ranking
affirms the university's continued commitment to transforming the lives of its
students and preparing them to be agents of change in both Oklahoma and the
world, Betz said.Oklahoma schools on the West colleges list are:Number 4:
Oklahoma Baptist UniversityNumber 6: Oklahoma Wesleyan College, in
BartlesvilleNumber 23: Southwestern Christian University, in BethanyNumber 24:
Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology-OkmulgeeNumber 25: St.
Gregory's UniversityOther factorsThe American Council of Trustees and Alumni
responded to the release of the U.S. News college rankings with a news release
stating the annual reports lacks crucial information needed to choose the right
school.Students and parents need facts about the academic expectations of
colleges and what is going on in the classroom, said Michael Poliakoff, director
of the council's What Will They Learn? project.Poliakoff said colleges and
universities should require all students take basic classes in core subjects
such as writing, math, science, economics, U.S. history and foreign language.
Only 18 percent require students to take an American history course, 14 percent
require foreign language and only 3 percent require economics, he said.What Will
They Learn?, which is online at www.whatwilltheylearn.com, is a database of
almost 1,100 colleges and universities that grades institutions on what courses
students are required to take.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           September 13, 2016 Tuesday

Princeton, Cal top college rankings

BYLINE: AMY HE in New York

SECTION: AMERICAS

LENGTH: 542 words


Princeton University remains the best private university in the US, according to
the latest US News & World Report college rankings, and the University of
California Berkeley - which has a large Chinese-student presence - is the top
public school in the US.

US News released its 2017 Best Colleges rankings on Tuesday, and the top private
universities are Princeton, Harvard University, University of Chicago, Yale
University, Columbia University, Stanford University, the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Duke University, University of Pennsylvania and Johns
Hopkins University.

Of those, Columbia University has the most international students from China.

The top public universities in the country are UC Berkeley, UCLA, the University
of Virginia, the University of Michigan and the University of North Carolina.

Of the public universities, UC Berkeley and UCLA have the highest number of
Chinese international students, according to a list compiled by Foreign Policy
magazine.

Williams College in Massachusetts was selected as the best liberal arts college
for the 14th year in a row.

The list of schools, published annually and used often by prospective college
students, is based on 15 measures of academic quality, such as student
graduation and retention rates.

US News also included a list of schools with the most international students to
better help international students who are interested in studying abroad. The
list is widely consulted by Chinese students, and the media company publishes
articles in Chinese to let students and their parents understand the college
admissions process, how to work with agents, and paying for college.

"US colleges and universities are becoming increasingly global and are finding
new ways to support their international students. There is an influx of Chinese
students looking to study in the US, and US News wants them to have easy access
to trusted information that caters to their unique needs and helps them find the
right college," said Anita Narayan, managing editor of education at US News.

"For both international and US students, a college choice can profoundly affect
career opportunities, financial well-being and quality of life. The US News
rankings can help prospective students navigate through the process of finding
the right college, and can provide security and set expectations for their
investments," she said to China Daily.

Despite the popularity of the rankings list, it also has faced criticism from
education experts who say that the way US News ranks the colleges is
inconsistent year to year, making it hard to gauge why a certain college
outranks another.

Critics, such as the non-profit Education Conservancy, say that the list implies
a "false precision and authority that is not warranted by the data US News uses"
and overweighs a university's prestige.

The education organization said in a 2007 letter to college presidents
protesting the ranking that the list reflects little to nothing about students'
abilities to learn at the universities.

There also have been examples of colleges trying to game the system in order to
earn a higher ranking on the list, such as Claremont-McKenna College in
California, which was caught in 2012 for providing US News with false SAT
scores.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 12, 2014 Friday

How CT colleges stack up in the magazine rankings

LENGTH: 666  words

DATELINE: Fairfield


Fairfield University has issued the following news release:

It may be the top dog when it comes to college basketball, but the University of
Connecticut is No. 19 when it comes to the latest U.S. News & World Report's
rankings of public university in the country, and that suits the university just
fine -- for now.

"This is a recognition that everyone in Connecticut can be proud of," university
President Susan Herbst said Tuesday before predicting the state's flagship
college, which has been climbing in the poll since 2000, is positioned to go
even higher as its reputation increases.

A list greeted with much anticipation in the collegiate world, the new U.S. News
& World Report Best Colleges 2015 edition includes rankings and data of nearly
1,800 schools nationwide in several categories. In addition to the Best Public
Universities list, UConn also made the Best National Universities list, coming
in No. 58.

Way up on the Best National Universities list is Yale University in New Haven,
which seems to own the No. 3 spot. It is perennially below Princeton and
Harvard.

"There seem to be more and more media companies engaged in ranking colleges and
universities with various methodologies," Thomas Conroy, a university spokesman,
said. "Yale is always highly ranked, but rankings don't effect Yale's
decision-making."

In all, 16 colleges and universities in the state made one or more of U.S. News'
rankings this year.

The University of Bridgeport, for example, was unranked on the overall lists,
but managed to place No. 11 for Best Online Graduate Computer Information
Technology Programs and No. 29 for both Best Online Graduate Business Programs
and Online Graduate Engineering Programs.

Western Connecticut State University in Danbury is at No. 135 on the Best
Northeast Regional University rankings, but No. 49 on the Northeast public
rankings. Also, its nursing program came in at No. 411 nationwide.

Sacred Heart University in Fairfield, ranked No. 38 on the Northeast Regional
list, also made No. 14 on Best Universities for Veterans in the North.

Fairfield University, which is No. 3 on the Northeast Regional list, a spot it
has held for some time, also ranked No. 3 for Best Undergraduate Teaching and
No. 99 in nursing programs.

"Fairfield has long been highly ranked among its peer institutions, indicative
of our overall academic excellence and commitment to an outstanding educational
experience for our students," said Lynn Babington, senior vice president for
academic affairs at Fairfield. "We are particularly pleased to be recognized
again this year for a strong commitment to undergraduate teaching."

Quinnipiac University in Hamden, No. 9 among Northeast regionals, moved up from
11 last year. It also ranked No. 1 for the third straight year in a category
called "Up and Coming Schools in the North."

This year, in the 30th year of the rankings, U.S. News tweaked its methodology,
it said. More emphasis is now placed on student outcomes, less on the high
school rank students bring to universities. Also for the first time, graduation
rates factored into the rankings of not only the Best Colleges categories, but
regional rankings lists as well.

"Measuring outcomes is critical to understanding how well a school retains and
educates its students," Bob Morse, director of data research for U.S. News &
World Report, said.

The rankings website offers a wealth of information on colleges, including
tuition, campus safety records and where students who go there also applied.

At UConn, officials say they are convinced the university's standings have
risen, in part, thanks to the academic strength of its freshman classes, its
reduction of class sizes and its ability to retain and graduate more students.
In addition, UConn has broken ground on the first of several projects designed
to strengthen its science, technology engineering and mathematics programs.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                          September 14, 2016 Wednesday

Elmhurst College No, 4 on "Best Value' list

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 337 words


Elmhurst College No, 4 on "Best Value' list

ELMHURST -- U.S. News & World Report has placed Elmhurst College fourth in the
Midwest among colleges and universities that offer the best value for the money.

According to U.S. News & World Report's Best Colleges rankings for 2017, lmhurst
shot up five spots this year in the Best Value Schools in the Midwest category,
from No. 9 last year to No. 4 this year. U.S. News calculated the rankings by
taking into account a school's academic quality and cost. Only schools ranked in
or near the top half of their U.S. News ranking categories were included because
U.S. News considers the most significant values to be among colleges that
perform well academically: The higher the quality of the program and the lower
the cost, the better the deal.

For a second year, Elmhurst College also kept its No. 10 spot among 115 colleges
and universities across the Midwest in the Best Regional Universities category,
for institutions that provide a full range of undergraduate majors and master's
degree programs.

Elmhurst College also ranked 10th in the Midwest in the category of Best
Colleges for Veterans. The category provides military veterans and active-duty
service members with data on which top-ranked schools offer benefits that can
help make a college education more affordable. To be ranked, a school had to be
in the top half of its Best Colleges ranking category and have 20 or more
students (enrolled in the Fall of 2015) who were using GI Bill benefits to fund
their tuition and fees. The institution also must participate in the Yellow
Ribbon Program.

"We're very proud to see national rankings like U.S. News continue to affirm
Elmhurst College as a higher-education institution of outstanding quality and
value, not only for traditional undergraduates but also for graduate students
and veterans," said President Troy VanAken. "Our growing reputation as a Best
Value School underscores our commitment to providing all of our students with an
excellent education for the money."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              486 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Brunswick News (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          September 14, 2016 Wednesday

CCGA ranked among best regional colleges by US News and World Report

BYLINE: Lauren McDonald, The Brunswick News, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 451 words


Sept. 14--U.S. News and World Report ranked College of Coastal Georgia among the
Best Regional Public Colleges in the South for the first time since the school
became a four-year baccalaureate institution in 2009.

In a report released Tuesday, CCGA is ranked No. 7 among public state and
regional colleges in the 12 southern states, as well as No. 42 among 113 state
and private colleges in the South.

"We are proud of this distinction to be ranked 7th in the U.S. News and World
Report's Best Colleges rankings as a state college and look forward to not only
continuing to be a 'college of choice' in Georgia and beyond but also continuing
to make CCGA affordable and accessible for all of our students," said Gregory
Aloia, CCGA's president.

The U.S. News and World Report ranking, which included 75 state and public
institutions from 12 states across the South, provides a snapshot of the top
ranked schools throughout the nation with a focus on academic excellence.

Factors in the ranking include peer assessment, average first-year student
retention rates, student/faculty ratios and the average alumni giving rating.

"The 2017 Best Colleges rankings data was collected in spring and summer 2016
using the U.S. News annual statistical survey of colleges," said James Lynch,
director of institutional effectiveness, whose office was responsible for
completing the U.S. News and World Report survey.

The public schools featured on the list range from small liberal arts colleges
to large research institutions.

"U.S. News rankings use statistical data reported by institutions to the U.S.
Department of Education's National Center for Education Statistics and are based
on several quality measures that include faculty and financial resources, peer
assessment, and graduation and retention rates," Lynch said.

CCGA was nationally identified as one of the Best Values in Education by the
U.S. Department of Education's College Affordability and Transparency Center in
July 2011.

The college plans to implement cost-saving initiatives to curtail $1.8 million
cumulatively for a more affordable and accessible education. Tuition for the
2016-17 academic year is set at $4,434 for full-time students from Georgia,
Florida, South Carolina and Alabama.

This is the first time CCGA has been eligible for the U.S. News and World Report
ranking as a four-year college.

"This is a result of our strategic focus on quality faculty, additional degree
offerings, improving student life, supporting our students through financial aid
and endowed scholarships," Aloia said.

___ (c)2016 The Brunswick News (Brunswick, Ga.) Visit The Brunswick News
(Brunswick, Ga.) at www.thebrunswicknews.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160914-GE-CCGA-ranked-among-best-regional-colleges
-by-US-News-and-World-Report-0914-20160914

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GE


                       Copyright 2016 The Brunswick News

                              487 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                          September 17, 1994, Saturday

Around the South COLLEGE RANKINGS Emory touting its rise on list of the nation's
top universities

BYLINE: By Laura Wisniewski STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section A; Page 3

LENGTH: 299 words


The new ranking by U.S. News & World Report magazine puts Emory University
higher this year as the 16th-best college in the nation, prompting school
officials to boast a little Friday.

"This ranking is the one that people pay a lot of attention to," said Emory's
president, William M. Chace. "I'm gratified that the perception of the school
has caught up to reality."

Last year, Emory ranked 25th in the report.

Mercer University, with campuses in Macon and Atlanta, debuted in the ranking
this year as No. 4 in the category of Top 15 regional universities in the South.
Spelman College, which was No. 4 among regional liberal arts colleges in the
South last year, didn't make the top of the new list. This year, the Atlanta
school was put into the tougher national, rather than regional, category.

The eighth annual edition of U.S. News' annual College Quality Ranking issue
will be at newsstands Monday. The magazine released only top portions of each
category; several more Georgia colleges are expected to appear on the extensive
lists.

The magazine divided the schools into 14 categories based on classifications set
by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. More than 1,400
colleges and universities were asked to fill out 13-page questionnaires, and
U.S. News analysts plugged the numbers into formulas to come up with the
rankings.

"It's nice when you're in there. You get some publicity that you couldn't
otherwise get, but that's not the only way we receive names of prospects," said
Deborah Smith, director of admissions and recruiting for Georgia Tech. "I'm not
going to lose any sleep if we're not there."

The magazine cautions readers that simply because a school ranks at the top of
its category doesn't mean it's the best choice for everyone.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH942610074

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scene on the campus of Emory University in Atlanta. Chart: The
U.S. News honor roll U.S. News & World Report's ranking of the top universities:
1. Harvard University (Mass.) 2. Princeton University (N.J.) 3. Yale University
(Conn.) 4. Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Mass.) 5. Stanford University
(Calif.) 6. Duke University (N.C.) 7. California Institute of Technology
(Calif.) 8. Dartmouth College (N.H.) 9. Columbia University (N.Y.) 10.
University of Chicago (Ill.) Liberal arts schools (national) 1. Amherst College
(Mass.) 2. Williams College (Mass.) 3. Swarthmore College (Pa.) 4. Wellesley
College (Mass.) 5. Pomona College (Calif.) 6. Bowdoin College (Maine) 6.
Haverford College (Pa.) 8. Davidson College (N.C.) 9. Wesleyan University
(Conn.) 10. Carleton College (Minn.) Regional schools (South) 1. University of
Richmond (Va.) 2. Stetson University (Fla.) 3. Rollins College (Fla.) 4. Mercer
University (Macon) 5. Centenary College of Louisiana Regional liberal arts
colleges (South) 1. Lyon College (Ark.)) 1. Roanoke College (Va.) 3. Emory &
Henry College (Va.) 4. Columbia College (S.C.) 5. Mary Baldwin College (Va.)
Source: U.S. News & World Report

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution

                              488 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             April 5, 2016 Tuesday

Pune's top colleges choose to opt out of national institutional ranking
framework

BYLINE: alifiya khan

LENGTH: 481  words

DATELINE: Pune


ALTHOUGH Pune is termed the Oxford of the East, academicians in the city were in
for a shock when prominent universities/colleges from the city failed to feature
on the Top 100 list of biggest universities and colleges in the first-ever
National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) released by the Ministry of
Human Resource and Development (MHRD) on Monday.

Despite having well-known institutions like Savitribai Phule Pune University,
Symbiosis International University, Bhartiya Vidyapeeth Deemed University, MIT
group of institutions being based in Pune, the city won no accolades while
universities and colleges from Aurangabad, Nagpur, Nashik and other small towns
saw a representation, generating a debate among academicians on the very basis
of its ranking.

None of the universities applied for rankings, which was the first-such exercise
carried out by the MHRD. Citing reasons such as lack of clarity in the
application process to not having enough time, institutions distanced themselves
from the ranking framework.

Among the educational institutions from Pune that featured on the top-100 list,
Poona College Of Pharmacy, Erandwane stands at fourth position in Pharmacy
Colleges, College of Engineering, Pune is ranked at no 21 in engineering
colleges,

At the government-run Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), mixed reactions
came from officials missing the NIRF deadline. "We were in the process of
applying for a higher education survey which has global value and it became a
time consuming process. If we would have applied for MHRD, it would have taken a
lot of time. So we missed the deadline for the NIRF this year," said Dr V B
Gaikwad, director of Board of College and University Development, SPPU.

However vice-chancellor Wasudeo Gade said it was a last-minute attempt, which
was the reason the university missed the deadline.

Of the 720-odd universities in the country, only 233 participated in the survey,
which shows a very poor response to the first-ever survey by the Government of
India. Asked about the reason, most institution heads blamed it on ambiguity in
the ranking process.

Vidya Yeravdekar, principal director of Symbiosis Society, said she had even
written to the MHRD asking for a clarification but did not get a reply. "There
were some queries that we had in the ranking parameters and we had asked for an
explanation. For example, one of the parameters for universities was graduate
outcome and they were asking to fill details of how many students went in for
higher education or public service examinations. But I think they should have
taken into account parameters like employability and placement records," she
said.

While individual colleges from Bhartiya Vidyapeeth did participate in the NIRF
but BVDU as a whole decided to stay away. Vishwajeet Kadam, secretary, BVDU also
attributed ambiguity in the ranking structure for keeping away.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                          September 12, 2012 Wednesday

Colleges remain in elite standing ISU, IWU, Eureka seek to build on 'best of'
rankings

BYLINE: By Lenore Sobota;lsobota@pantagraph.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 358 words


NORMAL - President Al Bowman is happy to see Illinois State University move up a
couple of spaces in U.S. News and World Report's annual rankings of colleges,
remaining in the top 100 among public universities for the second year in a row.

But he is most pleased with how well the school has done in areas such as
student retention and graduation rates.

Likewise, Illinois Wesleyan University President Dick Wilson pays more attention
to other factors than the rankings - even though IWU has consistently done well.
This year, IWU ranked 70th among liberal arts colleges nationwide, up from 71st.

Eureka College ranked 33rd among regional colleges in the Midwest in the latest
ranking, up from 40th last year.

Eureka President David Arnold said, "How schools are ranked and the basis by
which U.S. News creates thematic lists is controversial, but the actual data
listed in addition to rankings, not the ranking per se, can be useful to compare
colleges on the same data point, such as graduation rates and retention rates."

Wilson said IWU is most interested in "how we stack up" in graduation rates and
academic qualifications - "we consistently rank in the top 15 to 20 percent" -
and factors such as class sizes and student-faculty ratios.

ISU ranked 83rd among public universities in the magazine's rankings of "Best
National Universities" - up from 85th last year - and moved from 160th to 158th
in overall rankings of "Best National Universities."

Bowman credits ISU's recent rankings to a number of factors.

"Our standards are much more rigorous. Our retention rates are very strong. Our
graduation rate is among the best in the state," he said.

For example, the graduation rate was about 56 percent in the mid-1990s, he said,
and today "it's hovering around 70 percent."

"We focus our investment on our bread and butter, which are undergraduates,"
Bowman said. That includes maintaining a 19-to-1 student-faculty ratio and
identifying students who need support services, he explained.

Bowman said one thing the rankings do is give ISU "some national prominence ....
It puts us on some radar screens that otherwise might not think of us."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 The Pantagraph

                              490 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  Woman's Era

                                 April 16, 2017

Editorial: Surprised Rankings

LENGTH: 383  words


The Union HRD ministry's ranking of institutions of higher learning 2017 has
thrown many surprises. The list has thrown up certain names not known to be
among the 'best'. A college like Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma of Delhi is not
considered among the top but still landed a very good rank. Surprisingly, list
of top 100 colleges selected from 535 colleges from across the country is
heavily tilting toward Tamil Nadu, from where as many as 35 colleges have made
to the list. The rankings are based on five broad parameters with different
weightage. This is like a 100-mark question paper in which each parameter is
like a question that further contains sections with specific marks. Teaching,
Learning and Resources (TLR), for example, has a specification of total number
of students and doctoral scholars. Number of students gives big institutions an
edge. But does size equal quality?



Likewise, Research and Professional Practice (RP) has intellectual property
rights and patents specification. Criteria of patents and earnings thereof may
make sense for B-schools, but how about humanities? Similarity, placement,
higher education and entreprenuership make important criteria in graduation
outcome parameter. Here again, entreprenuership criterion and salary parameter
show the methodology's B-school orientation.

Finally, percentage of students from other states or countries is main criterion
in outreach and inclusivity parameter. Here Delhi colleges stand to gain on
regional diversity while those in Kolkata or Mumbai suffer in comparison.

From Delhi 11 colleges participated in the National Institutional Ranking Frame
work 2017 (NIRF) and six joined the rank among the top 10 colleges. Prominent
colleges of the campus missed the bus. These colleges had cut-off percentage of
100 to 99 per cent last year. Nevertheless, this listing allows students and
their parents to make a more informed choice as it gives them a fairer idea of
their choices besides the top 10 colleges. The rankings simply indicate where
each university stands. Even geographical location matters. While universities
in the metros are at an advantage, a Gondwana or a Chandrapur University will
not figure in the rankings at all though they are doing some useful work to
serve the local population.

Write to: editor@womansera.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


             Copyright 2017 Delhi Press, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      October 1, 2015 Thursday 8:10 AM GMT

Four London universities rank among top 30 in the world for the first time

BYLINE: Rachel Blundy

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 840 words


Four London universities have been ranked among the top 30 institutions in the
world for the first time.

Imperial College London,

University College London,

the London School of Economics andKing's College London, scored highly in this
year's Times Higher Education rankings.

London mayor Boris Johnson said he

was "incredibly proud" to see four ofthe capital's universities in the top 30,
its best performance to date.

Imperial College was ranked eighth in the world, a slightimprovement on last
year's position of ninth, making it the best university in the capital.

Meanwhile University College London came in 14th place, LSE was 23rd and King's
was put in 27th place.

Ranking: King's College London

London's Mayor BorisJohnson said: "The capital continues to be the global leader
in education, innovating and inspiring top talent from both across the country
and overseas."

The California Institute of Technology topped the table for the fifth
consecutive year.

The University of Oxford is in second place in the Times'latest global league
table, while the University of Cambridge rankedfourth.

University College London: Ahead of Oxbridge for world-class research

The 12th edition of the rankings sees the UK with 78 universities in the top
800, making it second only to the United States.

Read more

'London unis will struggle to get students due to high living costs'

Let all talent thrive in the capital's universities

Third of women students at UK universities 'subjected to sexual

Two London universities ranked in top 10 in the world

The UKhas seen an improvement on last year's results, but it also came with a
warning that its long-term performance could be affected by continued cuts in
higher education funding and immigration measures causing difficulties for
overseas students.

UK institutions have the second highest proportion of international students
among the top 200.

The majority of UK universities have moved up the rankings this year, some -
such as the University of Warwick, University of St Andrews and the University
of Exeter - considerably so.

But five - the University of Manchester, University of York, University of
Leeds, University of Sussex and Royal Holloway, University of London - have
slipped down.

Times Higher Education world university rankings

1 California Institute of Technology

2 University of Oxford

3 Stanford University

4 University of Cambridge

5 Massachusetts Institute of Technology

6 Harvard University

7 Princeton University

8 Imperial College London

9 ETH Zurich - Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich

10 University of Chicago

11 Johns Hopkins University

12 Yale University

13 University of California, Berkeley

14 University College London

15 Columbia University

16 University of California, Los Angeles

17 University of Pennsylvania

18 Cornell University

19 University of Toronto

20 Duke University

21 University of Michigan

22 Carnegie Mellon University

23 London School of Economics and Political Science

24 University of Edinburgh

25 Northwestern University

26 National University of Singapore

27 King's College London

28 Karolinska Institute

29 LMU Munich

30 New York University

Phil Baty, editor of the THE World University Rankings, said: "The United
Kingdom is a stand-out performer in this year's rankings.It appears the UK's
position in the rankings has benefited from the fact that the country's research
excellence framework (REF) assessment took place in the middle of the World
University Ranking's period of assessment."

"It will be no coincidence that many of the top universities in the REF -
University College London, King's College London, Imperial College London and
the universities of Oxford and Cambridge - are also star performers in this
list.

He continued: "However, despite the UK's success, its continued cuts in higher
education funding - the Higher Education Funding Council for England received a
£150 million budget slash this year - and series of immigration measures
affecting overseas students, will hinder its performance in the long run.

"Many of the country's European rivals, such as Germany, Switzerland and the
Netherlands, are also performing well, but are less hindered by funding cuts and
more welcoming for international students.

"The UK will have to work hard to ensure its higher education spending and
immigration policies do not hinder its place in the World University Rankings."

While the US remains the world leader when it comes to elite universities, its
dominance has been eroded this year, with six of the top 10 universities
compared to seven last year, and 39 of the top 100 compared to 45 last year.

Universities Minister Jo Johnson said: "These rankings confirm the world-class
standing of our higher education sector. Our reforms will ensure our
universities continue to compete with the very best internationally and deliver
high-quality teaching to students at home."

Additional reporting by the Press Association

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times Herald (California)

                           September 14, 2012 Friday

Vallejo's Cal Maritime deemed best in the west in national magazine rankings

BYLINE: /Times-Herald staff report

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 234 words


California Maritime Academy has received high marks in the 2012 college rankings
, compiled by U.S. News and World Report and Forbes magazines.

The U.S. News and World Report magazine ranked Cal Maritime as the No. 1 public
college in the west, and No. 2 among all undergraduate colleges in the west.

The U.S. News and World Report rankings come on the heels of the Forbes Best
Colleges report, which placed Cal Maritime in the Top 25 Best Buy Colleges in
the nation.

The latter designation highlights colleges and universities which provide
students with the best bang for their educational buck.

Cal Maritime President Thomas Cropper called the designations a "testament to
the collaborative efforts of our dedicated and talented faculty, staff, and
students."

"These rankings recognize the hard work of our entire campus community over many
challenging years ...," he added.

Forbes Best Buy Colleges are calculated by taking the college's overall quality
rank on Forbes annual list of America's Top Colleges and dividing that number by
the school's tuition and additional fees.

The magazine's quality rank assesses each school in the areas of teaching,
career prospects, graduation rates and the levels of debt graduates tend to
amass.

The rankings are most useful as a measure of educational value over time, and as
an independent confirmation of the high quality of the university and its
programs, Cropper said.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           September 18, 2016 Sunday

Miami, Ohio State get high marks on 'best colleges' list;
University of Dayton receives top rankings from students on quality of their
instructors.;
HIGHER EDUCATION

BYLINE: By Brian Kollars

SECTION: ; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 660 words


An annual study by US News &amp; World Report says Miami University ranks behind
only one university, Princeton, for best undergraduate faculty of any public
university in America. The Oxford school also ranked as the 30th-best national
public university.

Miami University was lauded for excellence in undergraduate teaching while Ohio
State was recognized as one of the best public universities in the nation in
U.S. News & World Report's annual "best colleges" rankings.

Miami ranked No. 2 in the country for "best undergraduate teaching" in rankings
released this week. Princeton University topped the category, receiving the most
votes from top college administrators for focusing on undergrads.

"Miami faculty put their hearts and souls into teaching - it's where we truly
excel," said first-year Miami President Gregory Crawford. "We hear it every day
from our students and graduates of every campus, that how professors teach and
mentor is what makes Miami such a special place to learn."

Miami was ranked as the 30th-best national public university and was No. 79
overall (public and private).

Ohio State was No. 16 among the nation's public universities and No. 54 overall.

"We're excited that our academic reputation continues to rise and we remain an
outstanding and affordable education for future generations," said Ohio State
President Michael Drake.

Case Western Reserve in Cleveland was the highest-ranked national university in
Ohio, landing at No. 37.

U.S. News considered many factors in its rankings, such as student retention,
graduation rates, academic reputation, strength of the faculty and alumni
giving.

UD ranked 111th

The University of Dayton was tied at No. 111 with Iowa State, Missouri,
Nebraska, Oklahoma, Utah and the University of the Pacific.

The University of Cincinnati checked in at No. 135, slightly ahead of Ohio
University, at No. 146.

Other ranked Ohio universities included Kent State, 188th; Bowling Green, 194th;
and Ashland, 214th.

Wright State University was among 162 national universities whose rankings were
not published. U.S. News chief data strategist Robert Morse said that the
publication did not publish those rankings for "editorial reasons," noting that
WSU finished in the bottom 25 percent of its ranking category.

Other Ohio universities whose rankings were not published included Cleveland
State, Akron and Toledo.

The top 10 on the list were all pricey private schools: Princeton, Harvard,
University of Chicago, Yale, Columbia, Stanford, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Duke, Pennsylvania and Johns Hopkins.

Among historically black colleges and universities, Central State and
Wilberforce were among a group of 30 whose rankings were not published.

Fifty HBCU's were ranked, with Spelman College topping the list.

Among 205 universities that offer doctorates in engineering, UD was tied at No.
135 with 15 other schools, including Ohio University. Wright State was tied for
No. 151 with 18 other schools. Engineering rankings were based solely on peer
assessments.

Regional schools

In regional rankings, which list universities that offer some master's programs
but few doctoral programs, Xavier was No. 4 in the Midwest. Antioch University's
ranking was not published.

Wittenberg University was ranked No. 154 among national liberal arts colleges.
Cedarville was No. 12 among regional colleges in the Midwest.

Although UD failed to crack the U.S. News top 100, its student body thinks very
highly of its instructors. UD ranked No. 11 nationally in the mtvU
RateMyProfessors.com rankings released Wednesday.

Its professors received an average rating of 3.66 on a 1-to-5 scale.

RateMyProfessors.com touts itself as the "largest online destination for
professor ratings with more than 7,000 schools and 17 million
student-generatedcomments and ratings."

Professors at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Washington University in St.
Louis and North Carolina-Chapel Hill received the highest marks in the annual
survey.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

                              494 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 19, 2017 Thursday

CCNY scores highly on global & Chronicle of Higher ed. rankings

LENGTH: 263  words



 New York: City University of New York (CUNY) System has issued the following
news release:

Two new rankings reflect The City College of New York's impressive academic
standing internationally and its ability to boost remarkably the social mobility
of its students.


In its 2017 appraisal of the top schools globally, the Center for World
University Rankings places City College, whose student population represents
89.6% of the world's 193 sovereign states, in the top 1.2%.
CCNY ranked # 323 among the more than 27,000 degree-granting institutions of
higher education worldwide according to the CWUR, which conducts the largest
academic ranking of global universities.
At home, The Chronicle of Higher Education ranks CCNY #2 nationally among
four-year public institutions with the highest student mobility rates. CCNY's
mobility rate was pegged at 11.72%
The mobility rates reflect a measure of the percentage of all students in a
birth cohort at a particular college whose parents were in the bottom 20 percent
for household income, and who reached the top 20 percent for individual
earnings. Six other City University of New York institutions were in the top 10
for mobility rates among four-year public colleges.
In other favorable rankings this fall, CCNY earned recognition nationally for
its diversity. The Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education 2018 College
Rankings placed City College at joint #8 for environment with three other
schools.
In case of any query aregarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      August 20, 2004 Friday CITY EDITION

U.S. NEWS LISTS CARLETON FIFTH
NORTHFIELD SCHOOL BESTS VASSAR IN LIBERAL ARTS

BYLINE: Tammy J. Oseid, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 322 words


Carleton College placed fifth among liberal-arts schools in U.S. News and World
Report's annual college rankings, beating out Vassar, Smith and other
prestigious northeastern schools.

The magazine ranks colleges based on 15 criteria, including peer reviews,
student retention and applicant selectivity. Students from across the nation use
the rankings when deciding where to apply, though many college officials say it
is more important for students to find a good match than simply attend the
highest-ranked college that accepts them.

Carleton and Macalester College also ranked among the best 15 values for liberal
arts colleges.

Tuition at Macalester, which ranked 11th, is about $27,000 annually. Tuition at
Carleton, which ranked 14th, is about $31,000. Room and board add another $6,000
to $8,000.

Almost 90 percent of students at Duluth-based College of St. Scholastica ended
up in debt after college, the second highest among lesser-known Midwestern
universities. They averaged $25,500 in the red.

In the liberal arts category, Macalester tied for 26th, St. Olaf tied for 62nd,
Gustavus Adolphus College and St. John's University tied for 77th and the
College of St. Benedict tied for 101st.

The University of Minnesota-Twin Cities tied for 66th and the University of St.
Thomas tied for 120th among national universities.

Among lesser-known Midwestern colleges, Northwestern College tied for 29th and
Concordia University in St. Paul tied for 49th.

Among lesser-known Midwestern universities, Hamline ranked eighth, St. Catherine
tied for 17th, Bethel ranked 19th, Augsburg and St. Scholastica tied for 20th
and St. Mary's tied for 31st.

The University of Minnesota-Duluth tied for 42nd, and Bemidji State University
and Winona State University tied for 68th.

Online: Comprehensive rankings are available at www.usnews.com/usnews/edu/
college/rankings/rankindex-brief.php.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDUCATION: COLLEGE RANKINGS

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                The Times Leader

                            August 19, 2005, Friday

University of Scranton keeps its high ranking

BYLINE: By Bonnie Adams

LENGTH: 556 words



The University of Scranton is again the highest-ranked local college or
university on U.S. News & World Report's list of best universities in the
northeastern part of the country.

The magazine ranked the Jesuit university in Scranton eighth, just behind
sixth-place Rochester Institute of Technology and seventh-place Ithaca College,
both in New York. Other local schools on the list include: King's College, 33rd;
Marywood University, 38th; College Misericordia, tied for 56th; and Wilkes
University, tied for 68th.

The schools are all ranked in the "best universities-masters" category for the
northeastern United States. The category nationwide includes 572 schools that
provide a range of undergraduate and master's programs, but few, if any,
doctoral programs. The rankings include a peer assessment score, average
freshmen retention and graduation rates and the student/faculty ratio.

This is the 12th consecutive year that The University of Scranton has ranked in
the category's top 10. "It shows that we're doing very well. It also shows that
we're doing our job and doing it consistently," said Harold Baillie, Ph.D.,
interim provost and vice president of academic affairs. Baillie said parents and
prospective students pay attention to the rankings.

The University of Scranton had a peer assessment score of 3.5 out of 5, a
freshman retention rate of 89 percent and an 80-percent graduation rate. The
rankings are included in the publication's 2006 edition of "America's Best
Colleges."

Local college officials stressed Thursday that they're pleased to make the list,
but the rankings are only one factor that parents and prospective students
should consider when choosing a college.

"It should be a starting point and a reference, but other factors have to come
into the decision," said Wilkes University spokeswoman Christine Seitzinger. She
said students should visit a campus and consider whether a school is the "right
fit" with its academic and extra-curricular offerings and available majors.

Misericordia spokesman Jim Roberts agreed that the list is just one measure that
should be used in selecting a school that's right for a student. The college
encourages parents and prospective students to visit campus and do more in-depth
research. "College Misericordia's freshmen retention rate, a key factor in the
rankings, equals or exceeds rates of other colleges with overall higher
rankings," he said. The college has an average freshmen retention rate of 84
percent.

This is the fifth consecutive year that King's College has been ranked in the
top level of the category.

"We are gratified to be ranked highly once again among the first tier of
competitive universities. But King's College is equally proud of its national
reputation as a superior undergraduate institution, and we will continue to
define ourselves as a premier undergraduate institution," said King's president,
the Rev. Thomas J. O'Hara.



-----

To see more of The Times Leader, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.timesleader.com.

Copyright (c) 2005, Wilkes-Barre, Pa., Times Leader

Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News.

For information on republishing this content, contact us at (800) 661-2511
(U.S.), (213) 237-4914 (worldwide), fax (213) 237-6515, or e-mail
reprints@krtinfo.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

KR-ACC-NO: WB-UNIVERSITY-RANKING-20050819

JOURNAL-CODE: WB

               Copyright 2005 Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News
                        Copyright 2005 The Times Leader

                              497 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 17, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Learning Beyond Measure

BYLINE:  By Richard R. Beeman;  Richard R. Beeman is dean of the College of Arts
and Sciences at the University of Pennsylvania.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 737 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA


When the U.S. News & World Report annual rankings of undergraduate programs at
American colleges and universities appeared this week, I breathed a sigh of
relief that my university continued to appear among the top 10 in the "national
universities" category. As the dean responsible for undergraduate education at
the University of Pennsylvania, I have found that the task of keeping alumni and
donors happy about Penn's status has been made much easier by our rise to
prominence in those rankings. And of course a good ranking has also played a
significant role in driving both the numbers and quality of our student
applicant pool steadily upward.

These would appear to be good things -- perhaps even cause for joy as well as
relief. But I certainly felt no joy upon the appearance of the annual rankings,
for, like so many college administrators, I believe these rankings are flawed in
their conception and pernicious in their effect on prospective students and
their parents.

I spend most of every day working to improve the quality of educational
opportunity that we offer our undergraduates, and I know that my counterparts at
other research universities do the same. How can we improve the quality and
rigor of our writing programs? How can we involve faculty more effectively in
advising our students? How can we provide more of our undergraduates with the
opportunity to work with faculty on research projects? How should our liberal
arts curriculum address the increasing preoccupation of both our students and
their parents with vocational concerns? How should our curriculum reflect the
ongoing revolution in information technology?

There is little in the U.S. News ranking categories -- or in the rankings done
by other publications -- that bears on these questions of educational
opportunity. One might think that two of the most important categories -- "peer
assessment" and "faculty resources" -- would measure the actual quality of an
institution's educational programs, but they don't. Peer assessments, in which
college presidents, provosts and deans rate other schools' overall academic
quality, do not evaluate educational effectiveness. And the "faculty resources"
category, while a reasonably reliable index of overall faculty strength and
class sizes, does not measure the quality of effort expended by faculty in
teaching undergraduates.

Even if the methodology were foolproof, the very idea that universities with
very different institutional cultures and program priorities can be compared,
and that the resulting rankings can be useful to students, is highly
problematic. But perhaps even worse is that the rankings further exacerbate the
rampant consumerism that is now so prevalent among entering students and their
parents, encouraging an attitude that admission (and payment of tuition) to one
of the "top 10 schools" is somehow a guarantee of a "top 10 education."

The one consistent source of satisfaction in my job is watching some of our
students make the most of the educational opportunity the university offers
them. Conversely, the most frustrating aspect of my work is seeing students
respond passively, treating their education at Penn as something that is given
to them rather than as something they must aggressively fashion for themselves.

I believe that intellectually curious and motivated students can achieve
excellent educations at many different kinds of colleges and universities around
the country, and those students will be much better educated than students who
pass through "top 10" universities passively and without intellectual passion.

It may be the case that the U.S. News rankings are as conscientiously and fairly
constructed as anything that has yet come along. But I fear that even if
meaningful rankings were possible, they do more harm than good in serving the
needs of prospective students. Rankings contribute to the erroneous notion that
a first-rate college education is something that one is handed upon admission.
But a student's success in acquiring an education depends much less on consumer
ratings of the product being offered than on the effort, dedication and creative
energy a student invests in learning. Rankings both underestimate the amount of
work it takes to get a college education and overestimate the importance of a
university's prestige in that process. In that way, they may do considerable
harm to the educational enterprise itself.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Niemann)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company

                              498 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 29, 2017 Friday

La Salle University Again Ranked a Top 300 University in Wall Street
Journal/Times Higher Education Annual College Rankings

LENGTH: 375  words



Harrisburg: La Salle University has issued the following news release:
Out of more than 1,000 U.S. colleges and universities, The Wall Street Journal
and Times Higher Education have once again ranked La Salle University in the Top
300 in its second annual College Rankings. The ranking is based on the results
of the Times Higher Education U.S. Student Survey, which examines responses from
more than 100,000 current college students on a range of key issues, including
engagement with their studies, interactions with their professors, and overall
satisfaction with their experiences. The full methodology explores four key
areas: outcomes, resources, engagement, and environment.


"La Salle University continues to stand out because of the transformational
experience provided to each and every student," said President Colleen M.
Hanycz. "The Wall Street Journal and Times Higher Education have once again
recognized what makes a La Salle education so unique: our students join a
diverse community of learners and embark on a rigorous educational experience
designed to foster theoretical and practical knowledge, deepen ethical
sensibilities, and prepare for a lifetime of success. We position our graduates
to achieve more and to enter the world with certainty and purpose as confident,
impactful, and productive global citizens."
"The WSJ/THE College Rankings, now in its second year, has received critical
acclaim for its pioneering new approach to ranking U.S. colleges and
universities that puts student success and learning at its heart," writes Phil
Baty, editor of the Times Higher Education World University Rankings. "The
partnership between The Wall Street Journal and Times Higher Education brings
together two powerhouses-the preeminent source of global business and financial
news, alongside a global higher education data and analysis business that
started reporting on global higher education almost five decades ago. These
rankings will provide students and institutions with access to a comprehensive
list of over 1,000 institutions evaluated on their educational impact and the
lifetime benefit to students."
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                           February 12, 2013 Tuesday

College rankings

BYLINE: The Kansas City Star

LENGTH: 407 words


The following editorial appeared recently in the Kansas City Star: A quick way
for schools to climb in the U.S. News & World Report Best Colleges rankings is
to attract more applicants, enroll fewer of them and consistently show higher
scores on the SAT. It's a perverse formula that colleges and universities
subject themselves to so they can appear "selective." Now it appears some
employees of highly regarded schools were so swept away by the rankings game
that they doctored their data.

Tulane University in New Orleans submitted inflated SAT scores for applicants to
its graduate school. George Washington University in Washington raised the class
rank of its incoming freshmen. Claremont McKenna College in California, Emory
University in Atlanta and Bucknell University in Pennsylvania have also
acknowledged problems with the information submitted to U.S. News & World Report
in recent years. With no independent verification of information from the
colleges, it's possible other schools also submitted faulty numbers. All of the
known instances appear to have been the work of individual employees or perhaps
unintentional mistakes in handling data. Still, institutions that pride
themselves on academic integrity take a hit when they are found to have cheated.
"Best college" lists published by U.S. News, the Princeton Review and others can
be a useful early step for students and parents trying to navigate the
bewildering application process. But besides setting off an unhealthy
volume-based admissions race at many universities, they have the potential to
lead students and families astray. A survey of college admissions officials last
year by Inside Higher Ed, an online news source, found only 14 percent of
respondents thought rankings help students find a college that's right for them.
More than half disagreed or strongly disagreed. Rankings and college admissions
as a whole pay too much attention to the front door of the campuses ? how many
apply, who gets admitted ? but pay too little attention to the back door.
Freshmen retention rates, graduation rates and information on graduates' success
in obtaining jobs are much more useful information than an elite university's
boast that it accepted only a single-digit percentage of its applicants. Despite
their flaws, college rankings are a big business and likely to be around for a
while. Their authors need to work with schools on ways to ensure their
credibility.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

                              500 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Herald-Times (Bloomington, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 1, 2014 Friday

IU moves up 4 spots in Forbes ranking of public universities

BYLINE: MJ Slaby, Herald-Times, Bloomington, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 481 words


Aug. 01--Indiana University Bloomington made the biggest jump in the Forbes
public college rankings.

The university moved up four spots from No. 22 to No. 18 -- the biggest jump of
any school on the Forbes Best Public Colleges list of American colleges and
universities.

IU was one of seven Big Ten schools in the top 25. The University of Michigan
was the highest of the Big Ten schools at No. 8. The top three were all
military: the U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Air Force
Academy. The University of California Berkeley came in at No. 4.

On the overall list, IU ranked No. 107 on a list dominated by small liberal arts
colleges and large research universities. No. 1 is Williams College, followed by
Stanford University, Swarthmore College and Princeton University. The top public
college, the U.S. Military Academy, is No. 9.

The seventh annual rankings of 650 colleges and universities are a partnership
between Forbes and the Center for College Affordability and Productivity in
Washington, D.C., and focused on what students receive from a university instead
of the types of students that attend a particular institution.

Student satisfaction was measured with professor ratings and
freshman-to-sophomore retention rates. Postgraduate success was marked by
salaries of alumni, where industry leaders got their degrees and student loan
data such as debt, default rates and the number of students with federal loans.

Also included in the methodology were graduation rates and academic success in
the number of prestigious scholarships and fellowships.

Three current students spoke to The Herald-Times Thursday to weigh in with their
IU experience:

--For junior Jared Pierce, IU is a place where he could learn a new language and
be in the Army ROTC. "I changed my major from Chinese to Portuguese because the
Army has a list of languages they want you to learn ... I was able to catch up
two years because they (the Army) want you in and out in four years," he said.

--For senior Meghan Thornberg, her years at IU have been shaped by her friends
and professors. "I could be happy anywhere ... but it's the people I met here."

--For senior Brianna Hensely, coming to IU from the small Indiana town of
Alexandria meant learning about new cultures and having new experiences she
couldn't get at home. And it's a strong background as she applies to medical
school. "When you're applying to graduate programs, you don't know what they'll
think of your resume," she said. But she said having IU on hers will be a
benefit. "I think it's a good thing. IU is prominent in education."

Big Ten ratings

No. 8 -- Michigan

No. 10 -- Illinois

No. 11 -- Wisconsin

No. 14 -- Maryland

No. 18 -- Indiana

No. 19 --Minnesota

No. 25 -- Purdue

___ (c)2014 the Herald-Times (Bloomington, Ind.) Visit the Herald-Times
(Bloomington, Ind.) at www.heraldtimesonline.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140801-BM-IU-moves-up-4-spots-in-Forbes-ranking
-of-public-universities-0801-20140801

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                          Copyright 2014 Herald-Times

                              502 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                            August 18, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Maine colleges do well in rankings;
Maine Maritime, UMF and Bowdoin are among the top 10 schools, U.S. News & World
Report says.

BYLINE: TESS NACELEWICZ Staff Writer --

SECTION: LOCAL & STATE; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 675 words


The University of Maine at Farmington, Maine Maritime Academy and Colby, Bates
and Bowdoin colleges scored high in the 2008 version of U.S. News & World
Report's annual ranking of colleges, released online this week.

However, some Maine education officials are raising the same concerns about the
validity of the rankings that are being voiced nationwide - and cautioning
prospective students not to make such rankings the sole factor in their
decision-making.

''A lot of things go into picking the right college,'' said Scott Hood, a
spokesman for Bowdoin College in Brunswick, ranked seventh on the list of the
best liberal arts colleges in the country.

He said if the ranking helps students put that private college on their list of
prospective schools, that's fine. But Hood said the best way to know if a
college is a good fit is to ''come to campus and learn all you can.''

Colby College in Waterville in ranked 22 and Bates College in Lewiston 24 on the
list of top liberal arts colleges.

Maine Maritime Academy placed third on the list of the top public baccalaureate
colleges in the north, and the University of Maine at Farmington placed fourth.

U.S. News & World Report has ranked the nation's 1,400 accredited universities
and colleges each year since 1983. It looks at a number of factors, including
SAT scores, admission and graduation rates and annual alumni giving.

The schools also are ranked on the basis of a peer review, in which top
administrators of colleges and universities are asked to rate other
institutions.

But a consortium of liberal arts colleges around the country, known as the
Annapolis Group, is questioning how well the annual survey measures academic
quality. They object to the peer review portion of the assessment as too
subjective.

The University of Maine at Farmington is not a member of the Annapolis Group but
agrees with its stance. That is why UMF President Theodora Kalikow announced
this summer that UMF would join in a boycott of the peer review survey.

Jennifer Eriksen, director of public relations for UMF, said the college
supports a plan by the Annapolis Group to develop a new Web-based assessment
tool that the public can use to compare and evaluate colleges. She said it would
have data that's easily accessible, comprehensive and quantifiable, and could
include such valuable information as how much opportunity students have for
professional internships.

The limited boycott didn't have much effect on the results, said Cindy Powell, a
spokeswoman for U.S. News & World Report. She said those joining in the boycott
only accounted for a small percentage of the top officials the survey questions
at 1,400 institutions.

And schools like UMF were still able to be ranked this year because they
supplied the other, non-subjective data used in the survey, and other colleges
and universities still conducted a peer review of them.

''We're very confident in the results,'' Powell said.

At Bates College, spokesman Bryan McNulty said, ''It's always nice when outside
parties recognize you as one of the best schools.'' However, he said, ''we're
still looking at the question of rankings and how valid they are.''

He noted that the U.S. News & World Report is just one of a number of national
rankings. For example, Newsweek recently published the annual Kaplan College
Guide to the ''25 Hottest Schools,'' which listed Bates as one of the hottest
for not requiring applicants to submit SAT or ACT test scores.

''The methodology is kind of all over the place,'' McNulty said of the various
lists.

He said Bates' president participated in the peer review portion of the U.S.
News & World Report survey this year. However, McNulty said, ''We really are
evaluating what our future role will be.''

Powell defended the peer review rating, saying it's common in the business
world. She said U.S. News & World Report is open to making changes that improve
its survey method, but ''we're very comfortable with the peer review survey.''


Staff Writer Tess Nacelewicz can be contacted at 791-6367 or at:

tnacelewicz@pressherald.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              503 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Blade (Toledo, Ohio)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           September 11, 2015 Friday

UT goes unranked again in magazine

BYLINE: Vanessa McCray, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 850 words


Sept. 11--The University of Toledo remains unranked by U.S. News & World Report,
which this week released the 2016 edition of its closely watched college
rankings.

Bowling Green State University tied at No. 185 in a list of national
universities, while UT's score was listed as "rank not published."

Numerous smaller colleges and universities in southeast Michigan and northwest
Ohio -- from Michigan's Hillsdale College to Ohio Northern University in Ada --
also make an appearance on some of the publication's voluminous ranking lists,
which sort schools by type and geography. The various lists produced by U.S.
News provide information on a total of nearly 1,800 institutions and offer
rankings for 1,376 schools.

UT is compared to other national universities, defined by U.S. News as research
institutions with a "full range" of undergraduate, master's, and doctoral
programs.

The publication only provides a numerical ranking for schools that score in the
top 75 percent of institutions in each category, but not of the lowest-ranked
"second tier" schools.

UT also failed to rank last year, though a U.S. News spokesman previously said
it came in at No. 233.

The publication did not respond to requests to specify the numerical value of
UT's unranked spot in this year's list, released on Wednesday.

The highest ranking UT has received in the last 14 years was in 2006, when it
ranked No. 201.

Sharon Gaber, who took over the UT presidency in July, has repeatedly stated she
wants the university to achieve a U.S. News' ranking.

Raising the university's reputation is among her primary goals, spokesman Jon
Strunk said.

"In the coming years, UT will be improving retention and graduation rates,
advancing research and the recruitment of faculty, and increasing philanthropy
for student scholarships and academic programs. Improved rankings will be a
natural outgrowth of that success," he said in a written statement.

Ivy League schools claimed the top spots in the publication's 2016 list of
national universities. Princeton University came in at No. 1, followed by
Harvard University and Yale University. Rounding out the bottom of the top tier
in a tie for the 199th spot is Ashland University in Ashland, Ohio.

BGSU, tied for 173rd last year, slipped to 185th place this year.

"The most important thing for us is that we continue to be recognized as a top
university. We are in that first tier of national universities," BGSU spokesman
Dave Kielmeyer said.

He expects BGSU to make gains in future rankings that reflect the university's
recent strides to improve graduation and retention rates.

"The formula does change every year, so how they weigh the different factors can
change our outcome over the years," he said. "While we are not overly focused on
the rankings, we do recognize that it is a tool that prospective students and
their parents look at."

U.S. News considers factors including retention, faculty resources, student
selectivity, financial resources, graduation rates, and alumni giving in
calculating its rankings.

The publication isn't the only one to capitalize on the popularity of college
rankings. In a recent Forbes' ranking of "America's Top Colleges," BGSU ranked
614 and UT ranked 629 out of 650 ranked colleges nationwide.

According to U.S. News, Ohio's top-performer among national universities is Case
Western Reserve University, tied for the 37th spot. Ohio State University tied
for 52nd, and Miami University tied for 82nd.

Other Ohio universities in the national universities category include: Ohio
University, tied at No. 135; Kent State University, tied at No. 175; and
University of Akron, unranked.

The University of Michigan is ranked No. 29 among all national universities and
No. 4 among public colleges and universities. Ohio State is tied for 16th place
among public schools.

The publication separately ranks national liberal arts colleges that focus on
"undergraduate education and award at least half their degrees in liberal arts
fields."

Area schools listed in that category include Hillsdale College, tied at No. 67,
and Albion College, tied at No. 100.

In the Midwest regional college category -- which highlights
undergraduate-focused schools that grant fewer than half their degrees in
liberal arts fields -- area schools were ranked as follows: Ohio Northern
University in Ada, tied at No. 2; Adrian College, tied at No. 19; Bluffton
University, tied at No. 27; and Defiance College, tied at No. 41.

In the Midwest regional university category -- which includes institutions that
offer a wide range of undergraduate degrees as well as "some master's programs
but few doctoral programs" -- area schools were ranked as follows: Heidelberg
University in Tiffin, at No. 49; University of Findlay, tied at No. 54; Spring
Arbor University, tied at No. 64; Tiffin University, tied at No. 68; and Siena
Heights University in Adrian, tied at No. 92.

Contact Vanessa McCray at: vmccray@theblade.com or 419-724-6065, or on Twitter
@vanmccray.

___ (c)2015 The Blade (Toledo, Ohio) Visit The Blade (Toledo, Ohio) at
www.toledoblade.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150911-TO-UT-goes-unranked-again-in-magazine-0911-20150911

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TO


                            Copyright 2015 The Blade


                              504 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday

Eight universities in top 200 subject-by-subject ranking list

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 412 words


It features in the top 200 for 24 of the 30 study disciplines for which tables
were compiled by QS World University Rankings, including top-50 placings for
English language and literature, politics, history, and modern languages.

The rankings were based on global reputation surveys among employers and
academics, with University College Dublin in the top 200 for 25 subjects and
ranked 50th to 100th in eight. University College Cork is in the top 100 for
three subjects - modern languages, biological sciences, and law - and between
100th and 200th for seven more.

There are top 200 places also for NUI Galway (five subjects), NUI Maynooth and
University of Limerick (two each), Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, and
Dublin City University (one each).

While there have been criticisms about falls for Irish colleges in some of the
more prominent global rankings in recent years, individual subject rankings are
seen by some experts as more relevant because they allow greater recognition of
specialisations. The inclusion of five Irish colleges in the top 200 for arts
and humanities, and four each under the modern languages, computer science,
medicine, geography and law categories may boost efforts to attract
international students and inward investment by multinational firms.

QS (Quacquarelli Symonds) last month changed the rules for its wider World
University Rankings, due out in September, after concerns were raised about
approaches by UCC academics to their international colleagues, as instructed by
college president Michael Murphy.

The university denied any improper conduct but the rules have been made more
explicit about how colleges or their staff may ask others to sign up for the
academic reputation survey that is an important part of the scoring.

Another 15 Irish colleges were cited by academics in at least one subject, but
were not among the 678 to have received a ranking, out of 2,859 third-level
colleges evaluated.

Harvard University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology were listed first
in 10 subjects and seven subjects, respectively.

A European Universities' Association report last month said comparisons on a
subject basis can be much more useful for institutions than global league tables
that try to encapsulate entire colleges in a single score. However, it also
pointed to weaknesses around reputation surveys and said colleges are sometimes
nominated as excellent and ranked in subjects they do not teach or conduct
research on.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              505 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      The Free Press (Mankato, Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            November 16, 2009 Monday

Gustavus ranked on Kiplinger list

BYLINE: Robb Murray, The Free Press, Mankato, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 413 words


Nov. 16--ST. PETER -- Gustavus Adolphus College in St. Peter has been ranked
among the top 50 "best values" in higher education by Kiplinger's Personal
Finance magazine.

The college ranked 40th and was among just a handful of colleges to make the
list.

Kiplinger's actually separates its rankings into two groups, liberal arts
colleges and universities.

No Minnesota institutions made the universities list. On the liberal arts list,
however, were a handful of MIAC schools.

Besides Gustavus, Minnesota liberal arts schools included Carleton College (
13), Macalaster College ( 25), St. Olaf College (30) and the College of Saint
Benedict (42).

"These rankings were based heavily on academic quality and affordability, which
are two key factors for prospective students and their families when they go
about making their college choice," said Mark Anderson, Vice President for
Enrollment Management at Gustavus. "Our top 40 ranking is another sign that
Gustavus is one of the top private liberal arts colleges in the country."

Kiplinger's describes its list as "the top schools that provide a top- quality
education at an affordable price." The magazine also states on its Web site that
"our rankings measure academic quality and affordability, with quality
accounting for twothirds of the total."

The rankings take into account factors such as admission rate, ACT scores,
students per faculty, graduation rate, and several financial aid figures.

"We are proud of our outstanding faculty and the excellent academic programs
that we offer," Gustavus President Jack R. Ohle said. "We also work with
families to make a Gustavus education as affordable as possible."

Some may wonder how colleges that charge between $30,000 and $40,000 for a year
of higher education can be included on a list of "best values."

Most students who attend private colleges are awarded financial aid by the
institutions. They also qualify for federal financial aid and, in Minnesota's
case, the state grant program.

In many cases, the actual cost to students is about half the sticker price.

To see more of The Free Press or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.mankato-freepress.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, The Free Press, Mankato,
Minn. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20091116-FP-Gustavus-ranked-on-Kiplinger-list-1116

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FP


                                 Copyright 2009


                              506 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday

UCLA tops USC in college rankings, with Caltech in the top 10

LENGTH: 644  words

DATELINE: Long Beach


California State University has issued the following news release:

September 9, 2014

Los Angeles Times
By CARLA RIVERA

UCLA edged out USC in U.S. News & World Report's annual list of university
rankings, and another local campus, Caltech, once again cracked the top 10 in
the widely anticipated survey.

In the list released Tuesday, UCLA placed 23rd, tied with the University of
Virginia. Crosstown rival USC tied for 25th place with Carnegie Mellon
University. Last year, the Los Angeles schools shared 23rd place with Virginia,
Mellon and Wake Forest.

The top 10 campuses largely mirrored last year's list, with Princeton first,
followed by Harvard; Yale; Columbia, Stanford and the University of Chicago tied
for fourth; the Massachusetts Institute of Technology at No. 7; Duke and the
University of Pennsylvania tied for eighth; and Caltech at No. 10.

UC Berkeley repeated its ranking as the top public university, placing 20th
overall.

Among other factors, the magazine measured graduation and retention rates,
assessments by peers, faculty resources and admission test scores at nearly
1,800 colleges and universities.

For the first time this year, information on campus crimes and federal loan
default rates are included on each school's profile page. The same information
on campus security and loan defaults is publicly available from the U.S.
Department of Education.

The goal is to help parents and students make better college choices, although
the data was not used to rank institutions, according to the magazine.

The handling of sexual assaults on campuses has raised scrutiny from students
and lawmakers, but the crime data especially should be viewed with caution, said
Robert Morse, who heads the magazine's rankings, and Diane Tolis, director of
data projects.

"Many experts believe that campus crime is significantly underreported by many
colleges," they said in a release accompanying the rankings. "In addition,
comparing crime stats is problematic because there are too many variables, such
as campus size, location (big city versus small town), number of students and
campus security measures including number of police among others, for such
comparisons to be fair or accurate."

The college rankings themselves have been criticized for focusing too little on
outcomes and spurring some universities to manipulate data in a bid to improve
their position.

A 2013 survey of the nation's college freshmen by UCLA's Higher Education
Research Institute found that while 64% said academic reputation was very
important when choosing a college, only 17.6% thought rankings in national
magazines were "very important" to their decision.

Nevertheless, "Best Colleges" lists continue to proliferate with such
publications as Forbes, the Princeton Review and Washington Monthly publishing
annual lists.

In fact, on the eve of the latest U.S News release, the New York Times announced
a new index, ranking selective colleges on enrollment and support of low-income
students.

Vassar, Grinnell and the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill emerged in the
top three spots.

The U.S. News rankings also include the top schools for economic diversity, with
UCLA, UC Berkeley and Columbia topping that list.

Despite criticism, such lists serve a purpose for families making expensive
college decisions who lack better information, such as graduation rates for
different types of institutions and students, and whose graduates are getting
jobs and paying back debt, said Matthew Chingos, senior fellow for the Brookings
Institution's Brown Center on Education Policy.

"You can shut down the U.S. News rankings tomorrow," Chingos said, "and someone
else will step right up to take that role because the demand is there. Whether
it should be is another question."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              507 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 22, 2017 Friday

George Fox recognized in 'U.S. News' rankings for 30th time

LENGTH: 481  words



Salem: George Fox University has issued the following news release:
 George Fox University again earned a spot on U.S. News & World Report's college
rankings - and earned recognition for overall value, its engineering and study
abroad programs, and its offerings for veterans - in the magazine's 2018
"America's Best Colleges" issue, released in mid-September.


The Newberg, Ore.-based university ranks 23rd out of 141 schools in the "Best
Regional Universities" West category. Colleges in the category provide a full
range of undergraduate and master's-level programs, but few doctoral programs.
Nationally, the category includes 659 universities and colleges, with 141 ranked
in the 15-state western region.
The rankings - including the component information on each college's score - are
available online at usnews.com . This is the 30th year George Fox has been
ranked as one of "America's Best Colleges" by U.S. News & World Report. The
university made the magazine's first ranking in 1987.
The No. 23 rank matches last year's mark, when George Fox exceeded 4,000 total
students for the first time in its 125-year history. The university has again
eclipsed the 4,000-student mark this year, with 4,080 students, including a
record 2,414 traditional undergraduates.
George Fox also landed on the magazine's "Best Value Schools," calculated by
taking into account a school's academic quality, as indicated by its 2018 U.S.
News Best Colleges ranking, and the 2016-17 net cost of attendance for a student
who received the average level of need-based financial aid. The higher the
quality of the program and the lower the cost, the higher the ranking. George
Fox ranked No. 17 on the list of 51 "Best Value Schools" in the "Regional
Universities West" category.
In terms of specific academic programs, George Fox continued to climb the "Best
Undergraduate Engineering Program" rankings, consisting of schools that offer an
engineering major (bachelor's or master's degree) accredited by the
Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology. George Fox ranked No. 75 out
of 200 schools - a vast improvement over its No. 124 ranking in the same
category three years ago.
George Fox also is listed as one of the magazine's "Best Colleges for Veterans,"
comprised of colleges and universities that are in the top half of their U.S.
News ranking category, are certified for the GI Bill, participate in the Yellow
Ribbon Program, and enrolled at least 20 veterans and active service members in
the 2016-17 academic year. The Yellow Ribbon Program allows institutions of
higher learning to voluntarily enter into an agreement with the Veterans
Administration to fund tuition and fee expenses that exceed the tuition and fee
amounts payable under the Post-9/11 GI Bill.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              508 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                           September 12, 2017 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

u.s. news &

BYLINE: KATHLEEN MEGAN

SECTION: CONNECTICUT; B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 762  words


UConn has hit its highest spot ever - Number 18 - in this year's U.S. News &
World Report ranking of national public universities released early Tuesday
morning.

"If you want to know our mood state, we're elated," UConn President Susan Herbst
said. "It shows how far we can go if you just believe in us."

Yale maintained its position at third among all national universities, tied
again this year with the University of Chicago and behind Princeton in first
place and Harvard in second.

Wesleyan also remained steady this year at No. 21, while Trinity College went
down a bit from 38 to 44, and Connecticut College climbed from 50 to 46.

Other notable rankings include Yale and Sacred Heart University on the "most
innovative" schools lists. Wesleyan, Quinnipiac and UConn were all highly rated
for their veterans programs.

Herbst said UConn's ranking among public universities, which went up two slots
from No. 20, reflects the university's "core academic strength and UConn's
exceptional faculty, staff, students and leaders - and state investment over
many years."

She noted that the improved ranking was accomplished despite "ongoing cuts to
our appropriation over several years."

"It shows that if the state makes the necessary investments in UConn's future,
we clearly have the potential to become a top-10 institution."

Tied with UConn at No. 18, were Purdue, University of Texas-Austin and the
University of Washington.

UConn also improved its ranking among all national universities - this list
includes public and private schools - coming up from No. 60 last year to No. 56
this year.

For months, Herbst has been voicing concern that the cuts now under
consideration by the legislature will lead to a drop in ranking and national
stature.

Budget cuts proposed for UConn range from about $50 million to over $100
million, Herbst said.

"We're very worried about next year and the years after," Herbst said. "... If
we don't have continued investment, we will slip very fast and very far."

Enxhi Myslymi, a spokesman for U.S. News said in an email that the magazine's
chief data strategist, Robert Morse, attributed UConn's improved ranking to its
"strong showing in the graduation rate performance, which measures whether a
school is graduating students at the expected level."

"UConn also has a strong academic reputation among education experts, including
college presidents, provosts and deans ..." Myslymi's email said. "It has
generally remained steady in the graduation and retention rank compared to its
peers"

Herbst also attributed UConn's improvement to its strong graduation and student
retention rates.

Stephanie Reitz, UConn spokeswoman, said that U.S. News predicts how many
students will graduate in six years or less while controlling for spending per
student, admissions selectivity and other factors.

The rankings predicted that 74 percent of those entering in the fall of 2010
would earn their degrees in or before 2016, but the actual rate was 82 percent.

She said that UConn's average student takes 4.2 years to graduate - the
third-fastest among 58 public research universities.

Another important measure in the U.S. News rankings is the rate at which
students return after freshman year.

At UConn that retention rate was 93 percent in the years considered by the
ranking - 2012 through 2016. Reitz said that UConn ranks 15 out of 58 among
public research universities in average retention rate.

Kathy Andrews, spokeswoman for Trinity College, said of the college's slight
decline, "While we're disappointed by the drop in our overall ranking, we're
encouraged that the external audiences that U.S. News polls for the ranking -
high school counselors and college leaders - expressed an improved perception of
Trinity."

Andrews said that "in general, we've long maintained that these rankings have
methodology that is in some way flawed or skewed, and that they provide a very
limited picture of an institution."

She said that "many of the metrics U.S. News uses don't consider or even run
counter to Trinity's goal of increasing access and affordability. So, while we
understand the importance that many assign to this particular ranking, we remain
focused on our goals for Trinity, and we value a multitude of measures of our
effectiveness."

Deborah MacDonnell, spokeswoman for Connecticut College said in an email that
the school has strengthened the institution with new initiatives - including a
new curriculum "that provides a more intentional learning experience for all of
our students."

"We believe this is beginning to be reflected in the rankings," she said.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              509 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            December 8, 2014 Monday
                                  Main Edition

1

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 132 words


Alabama No.  in college football playoff rankings

Receiver Amari Cooper and the Alabama Crimson Tide held on to the top ranking
and will seek fourth national championship under coach Nick Saban.

2

Oregon No. 2 in college football playoff rankings

Heisman Trophy favorite Marcus Mariota and the Oregon Ducks, needing two wins
for their first national title, will play a semifinal at the Rose Bowl.

3

Florida State No. 3 in college football playoff rankings

Reigning Heisman Trophy winner Jameis Winston and the defending national
champion Florida State Seminoles are headed to Rose Bowl for the first time.

4

Ohio State No. 4 in college football playoff rankings

Defensive lineman Joey Bosa and the Ohio State Buckeyes blanked Wisconsin and
vaulted into fourth place in the CFP rankings.AP photos

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                              510 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 14, 2013 Saturday

Milligan jumps to top 25 in Washington Monthly ranking

LENGTH: 342  words

DATELINE: Tennessee


Milligan College has issued the following news release:

Milligan College is ranked among the top 25 baccalaureate colleges in the
nation, jumping from No. 78 last year to No. 24 this year in Washington
Monthly's 2013 College Guide Rankings.

The rankings were released today by Washington Monthly, the same publication
that last week named Milligan a "Best Bang for the Buck" school, listing it
fifth among baccalaureate schools based on the economic value students receive
per dollar.

The magazine's broader annual College Guide and Rankings examines what colleges
are doing for their students and the public good--on whether they're improving
social mobility, producing research and promoting public service. Milligan was
24th out of 350 baccalaureate colleges listed, and was one of only two Tennessee
colleges in the top 25.

"This ranking recognizes things Milligan has always done very well--a focus on
scholarship, a commitment to community--both internally and externally, and all
driven by faith," said Milligan President Dr. Bill Greer.

Of the three categories--social mobility, research and service--Milligan's
highest sub-ranking is in the service category, where it placed fifth in
community service participation and hours served.

Milligan's Institute for Servant Leadership (ISL) serves to encourage and
champion the college's mission of servant leadership throughout the college's
activities--both inside and outside the classroom. ISL also offers scholarships,
which require recipients to complete community service each semester. Examples
of other service programs at Milligan include "Service Saturdays," encouraging
students to volunteer in the community, and the other college service clubs and
organizations such Habitat for Humanity.

"Milligan does more than just talk about servant-leadership," Greer said. "The
college's commitment to service is evident in community, church and professional
organizations throughout the region, where Milligan students, faculty and staff
volunteer."

For more information please visit: http://www.milligan.edu.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              511 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 20, 2013 Friday

THE LINCOLN UNIVERSITY RANKED AMONG NATION'S TOP 20 HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES
& UNIVERSITIES (HBCUs)

LENGTH: 410  words

DATELINE: Chester County


Chester County Chamber of Commerce, U.S Government has issued the following news
release:

THE LINCOLN UNIVERSITY RANKED AMONG NATION'S TOP 20 HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES
& UNIVERSITIES (HBCUs)

LINCOLN UNIVERSITY, PA - The Lincoln University ranked among the top 20 for
Historically Black Colleges & Universities (HBCUs), advancing seven places from
last year, according to U.S. News & World Report's annual HBCU rankings released
this month.

In total, there were 81 HBCUs; 70 of which were ranked and 11 of those were
unranked. Schools designated as such by the U.S. Department of Education were
compared only to one another for this ranking and were ranked based on
quantitative measures that education experts have proposed as reliable
indicators of academic quality, and is based on U.S. News & World Report's
nonpartisan view of what matters in education.

"I think our advancement in the HBCU rankings demonstrates and highlights our
commitment to enhance the quality of our academic programs, resources and
environment for our students," said Dr. Robert R. Jennings, president of The
Lincoln University. "Our progress is no small accomplishment and we hope to move
even higher on the list in years to come."

The indicators used to capture academic quality fall into six categories:
assessment by administrators at peer institutions, retention of students,
faculty resources, student selectivity, financial resources and alumni giving.

According to U.S. News, the data that were used in the HCBU rankings - except
the peer survey results, which used a separate HBCU peer assessment survey -
were the same as those published and used in the 2014 edition of the Best
Colleges rankings.

The HBCU rankings are as follows with multiple schools holding the same ranking
in some cases, while other rankings were not given:

1. Spelman College
2. Morehouse College
3. Howard University
4. Fisk University
5. Tuskegee University
5. Xavier University of Louisiana
7. Claflin University
8. North Carolina A&T State University
9. Clark Atlanta University
9. Delaware State University
9. Florida A&M University
12. Dillard University
12. North Carolina Central University
14. Johnson C. Smith University
14. Tennessee State University
14. Tougaloo College
17. Winston-Salem State University
18. Elizabeth City State University
18. Morgan State University
20. Alabama A&M University
20. The Lincoln University - Pennsylvania

For further information please visit: http://www.cccbi.org

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              512 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                          September 14, 2013 Saturday

Claremont Colleges ranked well in U.S. News & World Report rankings

BYLINE: Wes Woods

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 635 words


CLAREMONT >> The U.S. News & World Report 2014 Best Colleges list was recently
published and the Claremont Colleges were well represented.

Under the category of Best Liberal Arts College, Pomona College ranked No. 4,
Claremont McKenna College was No. 9 and Harvey Mudd College ended up No. 16.
Pitzer College finished No. 35.

Pomona provides an excellent educational experience, and we are always pleased
to have that recognized,  said Pomona College spokeswoman Cynthia Peters.  What
s really nice is that all of the undergraduate Claremont Colleges were
recognized for excellence. The Claremont Colleges are truly a unique and
wonderful educational environment.

Williams College, in Williamstown, Mass., was ranked No. 1 in the list released
on Sept. 10. Amherst College, in Amherst, Mass., was ranked No. 2 and Swarthmore
College, in Swarthmore, Penn. was No. 3.

Pomona College tied at No. 4 with Bowdoin College (in Brunswick, Maine) and
Middlebury College (in Middlebury, Vt.).

According to the U.S. News & World Report website, almost 1,800 colleges and
universities were ranked on graduation rates, class sizes, tuition, average debt
of graduates and more. Schools  eligible are ranked using 16 different factors,
according to the website. Additionally, according to the site, U.S. News updated
the 2014 methodology to better reflect college admissions and measure student
outcomes.

Pitzer College moved up in the rankings from the previous year.

Pitzer College is honored to be recognized with a rise of eight places in this
year s 2014 U.S. News & World Report rankings, from 43rd to 35th among the Best
National Liberal Arts Colleges,  said Pitzer College spokeswoman Anna Chang in
an email.

Pitzer was founded 50 years ago with the mission of providing the most
innovative academic programs in higher education. We have continued building
upon that legacy as we launched the country s first secular studies program and
the Robert Redford Conservancy for Southern California Sustainability this past
academic year. Additionally, Pitzer is committed to providing access to quality
education; the College meets 100 percent of students  demonstrated financial
need and has successfully lowered our student indebtedness. Students around the
world are responding with more applications than ever--making Pitzer College one
of the top 10 most selective colleges in the nation.

Laura Skandera Trombley, president of Pitzer College, noted the rise in ranking
in her comments.

Pitzer College is celebrating its 50th year of academic excellence and
innovative curriculum,  Trombley said in an email.  This is a significant rise
in our ranking. As always, we are honored by the excellence and dedication of
our faculty and staff.

Claremont McKenna College, which was ranked at No. 9 after a No. 10 listing last
year, did not respond to a request for comment.

In late January 2012, Claremont McKenna officials admitted that for the past six
years it submitted exaggerated SAT scores to publications such as U.S. News &
World Report, which uses the information to rank the college.

An April 17, 2012 report stated a lack of internal verification procedures
allowed the college s vice president for admission and financial aid to inflate
the scores before he resigned.

A Pomona College senior felt the ranking, while a positive, did not adequately
describe the school.

It s nice to be recognized and having our faculty and staff recognized for their
hard work,  said Pomona College senior Abeni Tinubu, 21.  I would definitely say
we re aware of it but it s not something we re intimately following. Obviously I
think Pomona is the place to be and I love it. I think that it s good to
recognize schools who are doing well but when too much emphasis is on a ranking
you start to lose what the college experience is about.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              513 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 18, 2017 Monday

Oregon Tech Holds Steady in U.S. News & World Report Rankings Among Top
Engineering Programs and Best Value

LENGTH: 471  words



Salem: Oregon Institute of Technology has issued the following news release:
 Oregon Institute of Technology (Oregon Tech) is once again ranked highly within
the U.S. News and World Report "Best Colleges 2018" rankings, released this
week. The report lists Oregon Tech at No. 3 as Top Public Western Regional
College and the university's ranking of Best Western Regional Colleges comes in
at No. 6, a list which is comprised of the best baccalaureate colleges in
Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New
Mexico, Oklahoma, Oregon, Texas, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming.


In the Best Western Colleges category, Oregon Tech received the highest peer
assessment score at 3.6 out of 5, and showcased that the university receives
freshman who are typically in the top 25% of their high school graduating class.
U.S. News & World Report bases the overall university rankings, which have been
published annually since 1983, on a number of criteria, including graduation and
retention rates, assessment of excellence, faculty resources, student
selectivity, financial resources, graduation rate performance, and alumni
giving.
In the category of Best Undergraduate Engineering Programs in the nation, Oregon
Tech held strong at No. 38 (No. 15 among public colleges and universities)- a
list that ranks all undergraduate engineering programs accredited by ABET at
non-PhD-granting universities. U.S. News notes that the rankings are based
solely on surveys of engineering deans and senior faculty at accredited
programs. The university reappeared on Best Colleges for Veterans as No. 5 in
Western Regional Colleges. This list provides military veterans and active-duty
service members with rankings among schools that are certified for the GI Bill
and participate in the Yellow Ribbon Program. Oregon Tech is also featured as a
Best Value School for being one of the western regional colleges with the least
student debt.
"It's very rewarding to see our university be recognized for the hard work we
put into having an exceptional and innovative education," said Dr. Nagi
Naganathan, president of Oregon Tech. "The value that we provide to our students
is of our utmost focus, whether it is the high return on investment they receive
for their degree or our emphasis on hands-on learning that can be applied
directly upon graduation. We want to make sure our students are prepared to
handle not only their future careers, but also their life."
Highlights of the rankings of more than 1,500 four-year schools in the United
States are available today at www.usnews.com /colleges. To view a full list of
Oregon Tech accolades, please visit www.oit.edu/news/university-accolades-
rankings.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              514 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Lima News (Ohio)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          September 10, 2015 Thursday

Four area schools among top colleges

BYLINE: Lance Mihm, The Lima News, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 540 words


Sept. 10--LIMA -- Four local universities received high marks recently in the
2016 edition of the U.S. News and World Report Best Colleges guidebook.

Bluffton University remained in the top one-third of Midwest "regional colleges,
" as the school tied for 27th among 96 comparable institutions in 12 Midwest
states.

Ohio Northern University fared even better, ranking second in the same category.

The University of Findlay ranked 54th in the category and The Ohio State
University, which has a campus in Lima, rated 52nd in the "National
Universities" category.

The U.S. News ranking system bases the rankings on a formula that uses
quantitative measures that education experts have proposed as reliable
indicators of academic quality. Once schools have been divided by category, data
is gathered from each college on up to 16 indicators of academic excellence.

Ohio Northern has appeared in the top 10 of the publication's Regional College
Midwest Rankings for the past 24 years and in the top five for the past 11 out
of 12 years.

"The No. 2 ranking is a tribute to the hard work and accomplishments of our
extremely dedicated, highly committed faculty and staff," said ONU president
Daniel A. DiBiasio. "The U.S. News ranking, together with the university being
highly rated by other publications like Washington Monthly and The Princeton
Review, affirms the quality and distinctive mix of academic opportunities
offered at ONU."

Bluffton's rating was up from 28th last year.

Bluffton vice president for enrollment management and marketing Ron Headings
said the increase in ranking was driven by increases in our freshman retention
rate and lower student/faculty ratio. The school has been ranked for 18
consecutive years.

"Bluffton is honored to once again be recognized for our strong academic
environment, small class sizes and personal attention," Headings said. "This
recognition is indicative of the strong belief Bluffton has in the power of
bringing together people and ideas for a greater purpose."

In addition, Ohio Northern University's T.J. Smull College of Engineering was
recognized as one of the nation's top 50 undergraduate engineering programs.

The college ranks 39th among engineering schools whose highest degree is a
bachelor's or master's, marking the eighth time in nine years that U.S. News &
World Report has listed ONU engineering in its top-50 rankings. U.S. News ranks
undergraduate engineering programs accredited by the Accreditation Board for
Engineering and Technology.

The Midwest region is comprise of schools in Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas,
Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota and
Wisconsin.

The Ohio State University was top rated public school in Ohio. The school's
overall ranking was up two spots from last year (both public and private
schools) and was 16th among public universities.

"We're excited that our academic reputation continues to rise and we remain an
outstanding and affordable education for future generations," said Ohio State
University President Michael V. Drake.

Reach Lance Mihm at 567-242-0409 or at Twitter@LanceMihm.

___ (c)2015 The Lima News (Lima, Ohio) Visit The Lima News (Lima, Ohio) at
www.limaohio.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150910-LM-Four-area-schools-among-top-colleges-0910-20150910

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LM


                          Copyright 2015 The Lima News


                              515 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Duluth News-Tribune (Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 28, 2012 Tuesday

College hockey: UMD men No. 1 in PairWise Rankings

BYLINE: Duluth News Tribune, Minn.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 294 words


Feb. 28--The Minnesota Duluth men, on a five-game unbeaten streak, are ranked
No. 1 in the PairWise Rankings, which mimic the NCAA tournament selection
process. The Bulldogs (22-7-5) are also No. 2 in the U.S. College Hockey Online
and USA Today-USA Hockey Magazine Division I polls released Monday, up two spots
from last week.

Boston College (23-10-1), on a nine-game win streak, is No. 1 in the U.S.
College Hockey Online and USA Today-USA Hockey Magazine polls, and No. 2 in the
PairWise Rankings.

UMD swept No. 9 Colorado College over the weekend at Amsoil Arena and finishes
the regular season Friday and Saturday at St. Cloud State (14-16-4) in 7:37 p.m.
and 7:07 p.m. games.

--The UMD women (20-13-1) are unranked in the U.S. College Hockey Online poll
and No. 11 in the PairWise Rankings. The Bulldogs are coming off a sweep of Ohio
State in the first round of the Western Collegiate Hockey Association playoffs
and face No. 1 Wisconsin (31-3-2) at 4:37 p.m. Friday in the league Final
Face-Off semifinals at Amsoil Arena. No. 2 Minnesota (29-5-2) plays No. 5 North
Dakota (20-13-1) in the 7:37 p.m. semifinals.

--Wisconsin-Superior (17-7-3) moved up one spot to No. 9 in the U.S. College
Hockey Online Division III women's poll following a Northern Collegiate Hockey
Association playoff series sweep of St. Norbert College. UWS faces Adrian
(15-9-2) in Friday's league semifinals in River Falls, Wis.

The St. Scholastica men (15-8-5), ranked No. 11 last week, dropped out of the
U.S. College Hockey Online Division III top 15 following an NCHA semifinal
playoff loss to Wisconsin-Stevens Point.

___ (c)2012 the Duluth News Tribune (Duluth, Minn.) Visit the Duluth News
Tribune (Duluth, Minn.) at www.duluthnewstribune.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120228-DU-College-hockey-UMD-men-No-1-in-PairWise-Rankings-20120228

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DU


                       Copyright 2012 Duluth News-Tribune


                              516 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

               December 9, 1998, Wednesday, CONSTITUTION EDITION

Atlanta a mecca for black higher learning;
College rankings: Magazine lists top U.S. schools for African-American students.

BYLINE: Nichole Monroe

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 13D

LENGTH: 376 words


Atlanta schools dominate Black Enterprise magazine's new rankings of the top 50
colleges for African-Americans.

Spelman College was ranked first, Morehouse College was ranked second, and Clark
Atlanta University was ranked fourth in the survey, which is designed to help
black students balance academic excellence and cultural diversity.

With two other ranked schools --- Emory University at No. 16 and Morris Brown
College at No. 32 --- the list released Tuesday confirms Atlanta's reputation as
a mecca of black higher education.

While college rankings are nothing new, educators and administrators said the
list from the nation's most prominent black business magazine fills a niche that
others overlook. Many also said they hoped the rankings, to be published every
two years, would help colleges compare themselves to one another and show where
improvement is possible.

The study was conducted for the magazine by Thomas LaVeist, an associate
professor at Johns Hopkins University and CEO of DayStar Research, a public
opinion firm.

DayStar compiled a list of 987 accredited four-year schools that either had
black enrollment of at least 1.5 percent or that were judged to have significant
interest for black students.

The firm then asked 1,077 African-American presidents, faculty members and
administrators of the schools to rate their schools on the academic and social
environments for black students.

The questionnaire results, plus data on black enrollment and graduation rates,
were run through a weighted formula --- which the magazine did not release ---
to produce the ratings.

Because of their high black enrollment, historically black colleges and
universities were analyzed separately for the rankings.

"We felt it was important that the list evaluate HBCUs and major institutions of
higher learning according to the conduciveness of their environments to the
ability of African-American students to succeed and achieve," said Marjorie
Whigam-Desir, a senior editor of the magazine.

The rankings should help students and parents make "more informed decisions
about the best college to attend from both an educational and nurturing
perspective," said Earl G. Graves, publisher and CEO of Black Enterprise.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Home

GRAPHIC:  Graphic :
 TOP COLLEGES FOR AFRICAN-AMERICANS
 1. Spelman College, Atlanta
 2. Morehouse College, Atlanta
 3. Florida A&M University, Tallahassee
 4. Clark Atlanta University, Atlanta
 5. Howard University, Washington, D.C.
 6. Xavier University, New Orleans
 7. Hampton University, Hampton, Va.
 8. Tuskeegee University, Tuskeegee, Ala.
 9. North Carolina A&T University, Greensboro
 10. Stanford University, Palo Alto, Calif.
 16. Emory University, Atlanta
 32. Morris Brown College, Atlanta


                    Copyright 1998 The Atlanta Constitution


                              517 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday
                                  Mich Edition

Notre Dame up a notch in rankings

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

SECTION: WIRE; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 480 words


NEW YORK - The University of Notre Dame ranks No. 19 among national universities
in U.S. News & World Report's 2011 rankings of top colleges and universities.

Notre Dame was ranked No. 20 in last year's rankings and No. 18 the year before.

Harvard University took sole possession of first place in the magazine's
rankings, which were released Tuesday. Princeton University, which tied with
Harvard for the lead last year, fell to second place.

Williams College, in Williamstown, Mass., was named the top liberal arts college
. Harvard, in Cambridge, Mass., and Princeton, in Princeton, N.J., have held the
top two spots since the 2001 rankings. Yale University, in New Haven, Conn., was
ranked third and Columbia University, in New York, rose to fourth place,
according to the magazine.

Also on the national university list, the University of Michigan ranks No. 29,
Purdue University ranks No. 56, Indiana University in Bloomington ranks No. 75
and Michigan State University ranks No. 79. Andrews University in Berrien
Springs ranks No. 191 among national universities.

Bethel College in Mishawaka ranks No. 16 among best baccalaureate colleges in
the Midwest, up from No. 20 last year.

Saint Mary's College ranks No. 93, up from No. 97 last year, among 266 national
liberal arts colleges. Goshen College ranks No. 137 in that same category.

Valparaiso University ranks No. 5, the same as last year, among regional
universities of the Midwest. Indiana University South Bend is listed among the
unranked tier two schools in that same category.

U.S. News' ratings, begun in 1983, are based on criteria such as student test
scores, selectivity and peer evaluations. This year, the methodology was tweaked
to add evaluations from high school counselors and to give more weight to
graduation and retention rates, said Robert Morse, director of data research.

This year, for the first time, U.S. News included the views of high school
counselors in its measure of "academic reputation."

Among liberal arts colleges, which are smaller than research universities and
don't typically offer graduate degrees, Amherst College, in Amherst, Mass., was
second, followed by Swarthmore College, in Swarthmore, Pa., in third. Middlebury
College, in Middlebury, Vt., and Wellesley College, in Wellesley, Mass., tied
for fourth. Those schools were the top five last year as well.

Not all schools welcome the ratings, even those with high ratings.

"The rankings encourage students to think about the wrong things when they
engage in the college search process," said Adam Falk, the current president of
Williams, in an e-mail. "Students should be looking for the college that is the
best fit for them - for their interests, their personality, and their academic
aspirations - rather than chasing the false prestige associated with a
meaningless higher ranking."

The Tribune contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 South Bend Tribune Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              518 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 17, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

UNIVERSITY RATINGS CALLED MISLEADING STANFORD STUDENTS CHALLENGE MAGAZINE
UNIVERSITY RANKINGS CRITICIZED

BYLINE: MICHELLE LEVANDER, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 890 words


Like many other high school honors students applying for college, Bill Shen
considered his bible to be U.S. News & World Report's annual ranking of the
country's universities.

But Shen, who is now Stanford University's student body president, no longer
believes the news magazine's annual survey is gospel.

He and students from some of America's top colleges are campaigning to stop the
survey by pressuring university officials not to give the news magazine any
information. It's not just the students who are unhappy. Stanford President
Gerhard Casper sharply criticized the rankings in a letter last month.

The magazine's annual rating of 400 American universities has become so
influential, critics say, that some universities make decisions based on whether
it will boost their scores. They also say the rankings are a misleading way to
describe a college experience.

So Shen and his deputy, Student Body Vice President Nick Thompson, have been
organizing students across the country and setting up a World Wide Web page for
the group. Students at Harvard, Yale, Wellesley and Carnegie Mellon have already
signed on to their weeks-old campaign, which is dubbed FUNC (Forget US NEWS
Coalition).

Wednesday, Stanford's student Senate unanimously passed a resolution asking the
campus administration not to provide information to the magazine. At Harvard,
which this year for the first time in six years slipped from No. 1 to third
place, the student government is expected to vote Sunday on a similar
resolution.

It doesn't seem likely that the campaign will have any quick successes. But the
student effort highlights the level of frustration, desperation and sometimes
chicanery in education circles over what has come to be seen as a
make-it-or-break-it rankings game. U.S. News & World Report is the first and
still the most influential magazine in the burgeoning college rating trade.

Consumer comparison

U.S. News declares in this year's College Guide that if consumers can compare
data for simple purchases of household appliances, they should be able to do so
for an educational investment that can cost up to $120,000.

A college experience, counters Thompson, can't be compared to buying a
refrigerator.

Thompson and Shen began organizing after seeing in the magazine's Sept. 16 issue
that Stanford had slipped two notches in the rankings. "At that moment," Shen
said, "I realized there would be hundreds of thousands of high school students
who would look at this and say, 'Stanford is not my choice.' "

A dog-eared copy

He should know. In high school, he walked around with a dog-eared copy of the
magazine's college guide under his arm.

Even though he is happy at Stanford, he now realizes the magazine held too much
sway over his decision. "They have arbitrary rankings," he complained. "The
bottom line is how do you quantify a college education like that?"

Stanford's president is sympathetic. Casper wrote U.S. News editor James Fallows
two weeks after new rankings showed Stanford had slipped from No. 4 to 6. "I
hope I have the standing to persuade you," Casper wrote, "that much about these
rankings - particularly their specious formulas and spurious precision - is
utterly misleading."

Casper went on to question how an objective ranking system could have such
wildly different results for the same schools from year to year. "I infer that
the formulas were simply changed, with notification to no one, not even your
readers, who are left to assume that some schools have suddenly soared, others
precipitously plummeted."

'Chronic tension'

In an interview Wednesday, Fallows said there has been a "chronic tension" in
the last decade between universities, which resist outside scrutiny, and the
magazine. While the magazine takes complaints and suggestions seriously, he
said, it must carry on its real mission, which is to serve students and their
parents, not campus administrators.

As for the jumps in a university's rankings, those can more easily be explained,
he said, by the data submitted by schools than by any changes in methodology -
which, he added, are always announced.

The U.S. News & World Report rankings have become so influential that some
universities may be cooking their data to improve their rankings. Last April,
the Wall Street Journal reported that some schools report one set of data for
rankings and another set to debt-ranking agencies.

Early admissions programs

Fallows, who just joined the magazine, said he believes some elite schools have
begun early admissions programs, which require students to commit early to a
school, to improve their ranking on "yield," or the percentage of accepted
students who go on to choose a school.

Harvard spokesman Joe Wrinn said the university has no plans to stop cooperating
with the magazine. "It would work against the public interest in full and
accurate information," he said. Withholding information can be risky for
colleges because U.S. News makes its own estimates or tries to get information
from other sources when that happens.

According to Stanford's student newspaper, Casper told student leaders Wednesday
he was interested in a student suggestion that university presidents
collectively call for change.

But for now, said a university spokesman, Stanford will continue to cooperate.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: TOP 10
The best national universities, according to a survey published Sept. 16 by U.S.
News & World Report:
* 1. Yale University
* 2. Princeton University
* 3. Harvard University
* 4. Duke University
* 5. Massachusetts Institute of Technology
* 6. Stanford University
* 7. Dartmouth College
* 8. Brown University
* 9. California Institute of Technology*
* 9. Northwestern University*
*Tied for ninthMercury News Staff Writer John Woolfolk contributed to this
report.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              519 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                             July 28, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

CU high on 'reefer madness' list;
Princeton Review includes Boulder campus on its party-school rankings, too

BYLINE: Brittany Anas For the Colorado Daily

SECTION: COLORADO DAILY; Pg. 07

LENGTH: 499 words


Among the Princeton Review's

rankings of the University of Colorado:

No. 5

for "Reefer madness"

No. 11

for "Lots of hard liquor"

No. 11

for "Party schools"

No. 13

for "Great college towns"

T

he University of Colorado's Boulder campus smoked other colleges in a "reefer
madness" ranking published by the Princeton Review.

CU ranked No. 5 on the Princeton Review's list, which will be published in the
2010 edition of the company's annual college guide, "The Best 371 Colleges,"
hitting shelves today.

The school slipped a couple of spots from its No. 3 ranking last year in the
publication's cannabis culture category.

The campus also ranked No. 11 for "lots of hard liquor," and "party schools." It
landed No. 13 in the "great college towns" category.

The Princeton Review -- a test prep company that has no affiliation with
Princeton University -- asked 122,000 students at 371 top colleges to rate their
schools on dozens of topics and report on their campus experiences.

Every April 20, at an unsanctioned event on the CU campus, throngs of
pot-smokers gather to smoke weed and protest drug laws. University officials
estimated about 8,000 people packed Norlin Quad for this year's 4/20 gathering.

"It surprises me that we would be ranked No. 5 considering the 4/20 event that
brings thousands of people to Boulder every year, but I guess there are other
schools that are constantly smoking pot," said Erin Smith, who will be a senior
at CU in the fall.

Asked whether the rankings will affect the value of her CU degree, Smith said:
"No. I know that CU is a good school, and I would hope that when applying for
jobs, employers would judge my character and values rather than the school's
reputation."

CU spokesman Bronson Hilliard has said the school doesn't take the rankings
seriously because the methodology is not scientific.

Hilliard said the number of alcohol incidents reported to the school's judicial
affairs, including underage drinking and possession, dropped by 16 percent over
the past year. There were 3,040 cases in 2008-09, compared to 3,632 in 2007-08.

"Nationally, all colleges and universities are wrestling with issues of partying
and drinking and drugs," Hilliard said.

In 2003, the Princeton Review named CU the nation's top party school.

Penn State University in University Park, Pa., topped this year's party-school
rankings. The No. 1 pot-smoking school, according to the rankings, is the
University of California's Santa Cruz campus.

The Princeton Review uses student interviews and data from schools to compile
its lists of rankings in 62 categories.

"Each of our 371 'best' colleges offers great academics," said Robert Franek,
company's vice president and publisher. "However, we don't rank schools
academically because our goal is to help students find and get into the best
school for them."

Other categories include best career services office; best financial aid; most
politically active students; "everyone plays intramural sports"; and stone-cold
sober schools.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 Daily Camera and Boulder Publishing, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              520 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 8, 2017 Wednesday

Baruch College Earns Two National #1 Rankings for Social Mobility

LENGTH: 571  words



New York: State University of New York CUNY system has issued the following news
release:
 CollegeNET and The Chronicle of Higher Education both named Baruch College top
in the nation on their respective social mobility analyses.


In College NET's 2017 Social Mobility Index (SMI), released today, Baruch was
listed #1 for the third consecutive year among more than 1,300 colleges
nationwide. Last week, The Chronicle released its ranking of colleges with the
highest student-mobility rates, placing Baruch College #1 among four-year public
institutions in the U.S.
CollegeNET: Economic Opportunity a Top Priority
CollegeNET's SMI is a data-driven analysis that ranks four-year colleges and
universities "according to how effective they enroll students from low-income
backgrounds and graduate them into good-paying jobs." The annual index was
designed to help redirect the attribution of "prestige" in the nation's higher
education system toward colleges that are solving the major problems of our
time.
"Unlike other college rankings that are aimed primarily at helping students
select a college, the SMI helps policymakers determine which colleges are
addressing the national problem of economic mobility," said Jim Wolfston, CEO of
CollegeNET, who added that advancing economic opportunity is more pressing than
any other social, political, or economic problem in the nation.
Baruch College President Mitchel B. Wallerstein said "Institutions of higher
education need to consider the whole student and offer personalized training in
soft skills, workplace dynamics, internship and job hunting, follow-up
protocols, and professional correspondence. Baruch has had such career services
and mentorship opportunities in place for decades, and they truly do help propel
students into their first jobs and beyond."
For more information about CollegeNET, the purpose of the SMI, and its
methodology, go here.
WATCH: Video clip of Baruch's third consecutive #1 ranking.
In March 2017, CollegeNET named Baruch College a Social Mobility Innovator for
2017. In its widely publicized announcement, CollegeNET noted that "Baruch
offers low-income students a supportive start-to-finish program that makes
college affordable, advances economic opportunity and helps restoring the
promise of the American Dream."
Read more about CollegeNET's recognition for Baruch College here.
The Chronicle's List: Data from the Equality of Opportunity Program
To name Baruch #1 among four-year public institutions in the United States, The
Chronicle analyzed data from the Equality of Opportunity Project's comprehensive
study on college graduate outcomes. The most in-depth research of its kind to
date, the project amassed data from numerous sources to produce the data
warehouse called Mobility Report Cards: The Role of Colleges in
Intergenerational Mobility. The Chronicle used this extensive material--which
included anonymous tax filings and financial aid records--to derive its current
rankings.
Learn about The Chronicle's list here.
National Recognition Continues to Expand
Baruch College's #1 rankings in social mobility by CollegeNET and The Chronicle
of Higher Education add to the College's expanding roster of national rankings
and recognitions that focus on value, student debt, and return on investment.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              521 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 14, 2013 Saturday

Alcorn State University repeats as one of the top public schools in the South in
US News and World Report Rankings

LENGTH: 384  words

DATELINE: Jackson


Alcorn State University has issued the following news release:

Alcorn State University students and alumni are proud that Alcorn keeps ranking
high as one of the best colleges in the United States. The 2014 "US News and
World Report" rankings released September 10, confirmed Alcorn's standing as No.
29 among Historically Black Colleges and Universities and No. 35 amid Top Public
Schools (Regional South).

Alcorn's overall ranking No. 77 among the South's regional universities is a
testament to the dedication and hard work of our faculty, staff and students,
says Vice President for Student Success and Enrollment Management, Dr. Carl
Cunningham.

"Alcorn has consistently performed well in the rankings as our reputation
continues to grow regionally and nationally. After all, we are a best value
institution. The quality of education we provide at a relatively low cost
combined with our solid record of producing successful graduates position us
firmly as a great university."

Definition of Regional Universities - Regional Universities offer a broad scope
of undergraduate degrees and some master's degree programs but few, if any,
doctoral programs. Regional Colleges focus on undergraduate education but grant
fewer than 50 percent of their degrees in liberal arts disciplines; this
category also includes schools that have small bachelor's degree programs but
primarily grant two-year associate degrees.

Definition of Historically Black College or University - In order to be on the
list, a school must be designated currently by the U.S. Department of Education
as an HBCU. To qualify for the U.S. News ranking, an HBCU also must be an
undergraduate baccalaureate-granting institution that enrolls primarily first
year, first-time students.

Criteria for rankings - After schools have been categorized as either a National
University, a National Liberal Arts College, a Regional University, or a
Regional College, data is gathered from each college on up to 16 indicators of
academic excellence. Each factor is assigned a weight that reflects the U.S.
News & World Report's judgment about how much a measure matters. Finally, the
colleges and universities in each category are ranked against their peers, based
on their composite weighted score.

For more information please visit: http://www.alcorn.edu.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              522 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 4, 2013 Wednesday

Georgia: What UGA rankings mean

LENGTH: 550  words

DATELINE: Atlanta


Georgia Partnership For Excellence In Education, The State of Georgia has issued
the following news release:

In spite of Saturday's loss, students at the University of Georgia know how good
they have it. Campus life, academics, sports teams -- you name it.

Athens has something to offer for everyone, but how does UGA look to those
observing it from the outside? Where does Athens stack up in the never-ending
quest for collegiate rankings and pride?

In the U.S. News & World Report's most recent rankings, UGA came in at 21 on its
list of top state universities in the country. The Terry College of Business is
consistently top 50 in the Report's annual rankings of business colleges,
private and state, in the country and top 25 amongst state universities. Grady
College also comes in high in the same ranking service, boasting top 5 programs
in both advertising and public relations.

As far as athletics are concerned, UGA's programs have collectively won 39
national championships, the most recent being earned by the women's swimming and
diving team in 2013. Also, we've had a football team that has finished the
season in the top 15 in BCS rankings a couple times over the years.

But not only are the sports teams at UGA good, so are their fans. In Emory
University's recent sports marketing analytics study, Georgia was ranked first
in its list of Southeastern Conference fan bases. The findings were based upon
"a statistical model that predicts team revenues as a function of metrics
related to team performance such as winning percentage and bowl participation."

In other words, Emory found that Georgia fans were most loyal to their team
regardless of how well or poorly their team was performing. Also, the SEC came
in first in the study's conference rankings, so congratulations, Bulldog nation,
for being the "best" fan base in college football.

Top 10 in producing Peace Corps volunteers, No. 1 in Rolling Stone's "Best
College Music Scene" -- the list goes on and on. What do faculty members think
of these rankings?

Jeanne Fry, president of UGA Food Services, is flattered by all the rankings.

In 2012, UGA was ranked third best college dining at the most recent KPEX, a
website designed for high school students.

"To me it's a little bit of validation that the hard work the team puts in pays
off," Fry said. "Every year we're told by parents and students that part of
their final decision to come here was because the food was good. [The rankings]
are important because it's all a part of recruitment."

Allison Harper, the marketing coordinator of Food Services, added, "I think we
want to offer students something they can be proud of while they're here, and we
want the University to be proud of us, too."

Some faculty members aren't as dazzled with all the rankings. Keith Herndon, a
Grady graduate who now teaches news management, says he does not put much stock
in how UGA's programs are ranked.

"I look at it as if the school is doing its job of getting the students engaged
and training them about what they're going to have to do about their career and
their profession," Herndon said. "If it prepares the students [for their
fields], or if it gives the students an appreciation for what that field is
about, the school succeeds."

For further information please visit: http://www.gpee.org/

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              523 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 20, 2015 Friday

Pennsylvania: Citing Flawed Analysis, Website Corrects Erroneous Crime Ranking

LENGTH: 311  words

DATELINE: Harrisburg


Pennsylvania College of Technology, The State of Pennsylvania has issued the
following News release:


With Tuesday night's finding that a website wrongly included Penn College on a
list of unsafe campuses, President Davie Jane Gilmour has updated the
institution's response.


"The FindTheBest/StartClass website that recently included Penn College on its
list of "25 most dangerous colleges" has acknowledged errors in its analysis of
crime-reporting data and problems with its methodology, resulting in a faulty
ranking of colleges.
"Last night, the site published new rankings based on corrected data analysis.
Penn College is no longer on the list.
"Here is an excerpt from the website's explanation:
"Note: We identified an error in the original analysis of the data used in the
Feb. 3, 2015 report on dangerous colleges in the United States, which resulted
in an incorrect ranking of colleges. The following is an updated report which
has corrected the previous error, clarified the criteria and methodology used,
and resulted in a new ranking. We've reached out to the various publications
that ran stories using the original data to provide them with the updated
rankings. We sincerely apologize for any confusion and inconvenience this data
issue has caused."
"The ratings were the source of much concern throughout our community. We spent
the better part of the day on Tuesday responding to communications from
concerned students, parents, alumni and others.
"While we are pleased that the rankings have been rectified, we fully understand
that no amount of crime, regardless of the severity, is acceptable at an
institution of higher learning.
"We take all crime seriously, and campus safety remains a top priority."
Thank you,
Davie Jane Gilmour, Ph.D.


In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              524 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

U.S. News: W&M best public university for undergraduate teaching

LENGTH: 674  words

DATELINE: Williamsburg


The College of William & Mary has issued the following news release:

William & Mary is more committed to undergraduate teaching than any other public
university or college in the nation, according to U.S. News & World Report.

The magazine released its annual ranking of colleges today, and William & Mary
has once again been counted among the nation's best.

Among all national universities - both private and public - William & Mary
improved one spot to a tie for 32nd. The university remained the sixth best
public institution in the country. On a ranking of colleges with a "strong
commitment to undergraduate teaching," W&M moved up three spots and is the top
public institution and tied for third overall, surpassed only by Dartmouth
College and Princeton University.

"While these rankings never capture the true excellence of William & Mary, it's
always satisfying to see them move in a positive direction, as they did this
time around," said President Taylor Reveley.  "It remains amazing that William &
Mary achieves such an extraordinary high level of quality with such a modest set
of financial resources, as these ranking make clear."

The university again fared well in a U.S. News ranking created from feedback by
high school counselors. In that listing, William & Mary is tied with eight
schools - including the University of Virginia - for 21st. Last year, the
university was ranked in a tie for 22nd by high school counselors. The U.S News
ranking also highlights William & Mary as the most efficient in the country.
According to the U.S. News ranking, W&M's financial resources ranking fell from
112th last year to 114th this year. The 82-spot gap between overall quality and
financial resources is by far the largest among the national top 50. However,
William & Mary's alumni giving rank is among the best in the country for a
public university, improving from 33rd a year ago to 29th in the latest ranking.

U.S. News ranks colleges and universities according to their scores in several
categories, including graduation rates, class sizes, freshman retention rates
and alumni contributions. In this year's ranking, Princeton University takes the
top spot among national universities, and the University of California-Berkeley
(tied for 20th overall) is the top public institution.

Today's report by U.S. News is the latest in a string of recent rankings that
have highlighted William & Mary's commitment to excellence.

In August, the university was ranked 36th among national universities by
Washington Monthly, which looks at several factors, including how many Ph.D.
students schools produce. W&M has the highest percentage of students who have
gone on to earn doctorates of any public university in the nation, according to
data from the National Science Foundation.

In July, William & Mary was included in Forbes' annual "America's Top Colleges"
report. The university ranked 44th overall and sixth among public institutions,
excluding military academies. The ranking garnered praise for the university
from Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell, who said, "Virginia's higher education
system is one of the best in the nation and the world. I congratulate the
University of Virginia and the College of William & Mary for once again proving
to be leaders among our nation's public non-service academy colleges."

In March, U.S. News' ranking of graduate schools was released, in which the W&M
School of Education leaped 11 spots from the previous year to be ranked 32nd in
the nation. The Law School was ranked 33rd (up two spots from the year before),
and the Mason School of Business ranked 70th among graduate business programs.
The university's doctoral program in U.S. colonial history - ranked every four
years by U.S. News - came in at third, up one spot from the 2010 survey.
In February, W&M was ranked the fourth "best value" public institution in the
country by the Princeton Review. That ranking was also acknowledged by Gov.
McDonnell and was featured on NBC's Today show.

For more information please visit: http://www.wm.edu.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              525 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                      August 26, 2001 Sunday, Home Edition

College Football: AJC's ranking to help settle run for the Rose;
BOWL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES

BYLINE: CHIP TOWERS

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Sports; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 305 words


The Atlanta Journal-Constitution has joined forces with MIT astrophysicist Wes
Colley to become part of the Bowl Championship Series formula.

Colley designed what is known as the Colley Matrix, a computer program that
emphasizes wins and losses and de-emphasizes margin of victory and other
subjective factors to rate the nation's 117 Division I-A football teams.

His method was one of two new computerized college football rankings added to
the BCS formula this year. Along with the writers' and coaches' subjective polls
and a total of seven computer rankings, it will be used to determine which two
teams play in the Jan. 3 Rose Bowl to decide the national championship.

The AJC this month acquired the rights to Colley's rankings. They will be
published on the AJC.com/sports Web site and in the newspaper each Monday
morning throughout the college football season. The first AJC/Colley rankings
will be posted after the first seven Division I-A games are played this weekend.

Colley's rankings began as a hobby for a creative mathematician, and he has
posted them on the Internet since 1998. The rankings have predicted the final
No. 1 team in each of the last three seasons.

This winter, Colley was approached by SEC commissioner Roy Kramer about
submitting his poll for consideration by the BCS committee. More than 50
rankings were reviewed before Colley's and one other were approved.

Colley's system, though designed by a mathematical genius, is based on
simplicity.

"I thought if I started the simplest thing I could, something that didn't
require a bunch of tweaks, that would be the best way to go," Colley said. "Lo
and behold, the simple method worked quite well. Even though it seems reasonable
to add factors for score differential and home and away, it really just
complicates matters."

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo:
Wes Colley's system places emphasis on a team's record. Graphic:
THE ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION COMPUTER RANKINGS
ANALYSIS BY COLLEY MATRIX
HOW IT WORKS
> The only data that goes into the rankings are Division I-A wins and losses ---
no scores, no margin of victory.
> The system makes adjustments for strength of schedule but without bias toward
conference or region.
> At the start of the season, all 117 Division I-A teams are tied for first.
> After this weekend, the seven winning teams will be tied for first and the
seven losing teams will be tied for last.

TYPE: Preview

                    Copyright 2001 The Atlanta Constitution


                              526 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday

Wofford named a 2017 'Best College Value' by Kiplinger's Personal Finance

LENGTH: 450  words

DATELINE: New York



 Columbia: Wofford College has issued the following news release:
  SPARTANBURG, S.C. - Wofford College improved its already high ranking among
Kiplinger's Personal Finance magazine's list of the Top 300 Best College Values
of 2017, moving up to #109 and remaining the top South Carolina institution on
the overall list as well as the list of national liberal arts colleges.





 In 2016, Wofford ranked #116 on the overall list that also includes public and
private universities. This year, Wofford is ranked #57 among liberal arts
colleges, up from #61 last year.



 Introduced in 1998, the rankings now include public and private universities
and private liberal arts colleges that combine outstanding academics with
affordable cost into a single, comprehensive list. Kiplinger also ranks the top
100 best values in each category.



 "Kiplinger's ranking of Wofford as a best value college continues to reflect
our long-term commitment to balancing two important priorities: offering an
outstanding residential academic program and focusing on affordability for a
wide range of students and their families," Wofford President Nayef Samhat says.
"We consistently are listed among the best value colleges in a number of
national college guides and publications, including Forbes, U.S. News & World
Report, Princeton Review and Money magazine."



 Wofford has appeared on Kiplinger's best value list since 2008, the second year
the publication began its annual rankings. The combined list of public and
private universities with liberal arts colleges debuted last year.


 "There's no way around it: College is expensive, and it's going to stay that
way for a long time," says Janet Bodnar, editor of Kiplinger's Personal Finance
magazine. "With our rankings - which weigh affordability alongside academic
quality - our goal is to help students and their parents understand what's
really worth the price. While some may have ranked higher than others, all 300
schools on the list are of extraordinary value, chosen out of a universe of
1,200."



 Kiplinger's quality measures, which are weighted more heavily than cost,
include the admission rate, the percentage of students who return for their
sophomore year, the student-faculty ratio and the four-year graduation rate.
Cost criteria include sticker price, financial aid and average debt at
graduation. Unlike other rankings, which include subjective criteria in their
assessments, Kiplinger restricts its analysis to measurable standards of
academic quality and affordability. Kiplinger's was the first ranking to focus
on value, its core mission.
 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              527 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             October 5, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY Top 25 Coaches' Poll;
College football

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 10C

LENGTH: 682 words


Times p.m. Eastern.

1. Florida (4-0)

Points: 1,473 (57 first-place votes). Previous ranking: 1. This week: Saturday
at No. 4 LSU (CBS, 8). Last week: Idle.

2. Texas (4-0)

Points: 1,408 (1). Previous ranking: 2. This week: Saturday vs. Colorado (ESPN,
7:15). Last week: Idle.

3. Alabama (5-0)

Points: 1,366 (1). Previous ranking: 3. This week: Saturday at No. 16
Mississippi (CBS, 3:30). Last week: Beat Kentucky 38-20.

4. LSU (5-0)

Points: 1,273. Previous ranking: 4. This week: Saturday vs. No. 1 Florida (CBS,
8). Last week: Beat then-No. 14 Georgia 20-13.

5. Virginia Tech (4-1)

Points: 1,141. Previous ranking: 6. This week: Saturday vs. Boston College. Last
week: Beat Duke 34-26.

6. Boise State (5-0)

Points: 1,133. Previous ranking: 5. Next game: Oct. 14 at Tulsa (ESPN, 8). Last
week: Beat UC-Davis 34-16.

7. Southern California (4-1)

Points: 1,123. Previous ranking: 7. Next game: Oct. 17 at Notre Dame (NBC,
3:30). Last week: Beat then-No. 19 California 30-3.

8. Ohio State (4-1)

Points: 1,072. Previous ranking: 9. This week: Saturday vs. No. 25 Wisconsin
(ABC, 3:30). Last week: Beat Indiana 33-14.

9. TCU (4-0)

Points: 965. Previous ranking: 10. This week: Saturday at Air Force (CBS College
Sports, 7:30). Last week: Beat Southern Methodist 39-14.

10. Cincinnati (5-0)

Points: 937. Previous ranking: 11. Next game: Oct. 15 at No. 24 South Florida
(ESPN, 7:30). Last week: Beat Miami (Ohio) 37-13.

11. Miami (Fla.) (3-1)

Points: 750. Previous ranking: 21 (tie). This week: Saturday vs. Florida A&M.
Last week: Beat then-No. 8 Oklahoma 21-20.

12. Penn State (4-1)

Points: 713. Previous ranking: 13. This week: Saturday vs. Eastern Illinois
(ESPN Classic, noon). Last week: Beat Illinois 35-17.

13. Oklahoma State (3-1)

Points: 702. Previous ranking: 12. This week: Saturday at Texas A&M (FSN,
12:30). Last week: Idle.

14. Iowa (5-0)

Points: 655. Previous ranking: 17. This week: Saturday vs. Michigan (ABC, 8).
Last week: Beat Arkansas State 24-21.

15. Kansas (4-0)

Points: 616. Previous ranking: 16. This week: Saturday vs. Iowa State (Versus,
12:30). Last week: Idle.

16. Mississippi (3-1)

Points: 460. Previous ranking: 18. This week: Saturday vs. No. 3 Alabama (CBS,
3:30). Last week: Beat Vanderbilt 23-7.

17. Oregon (4-1)

Points: 433. Previous ranking: 25. This week: Saturday at UCLA (ABC, 3:30). Last
week: Beat Washington State 52-6.

18. Missouri (4-0)

Points: 386. Previous ranking: 23. This week: Thursday vs. No. 22 Nebraska
(ESPN, 9). Last week: Idle.

19. Auburn (5-0)

Points: 369. Previous ranking: not ranked. This week: Saturday at Arkansas
(ESPN, noon). Last week: Beat Tennessee 26-22.

20. Brigham Young (4-1)

Points: 353. Previous ranking: 21 (tie). This week: Saturday at UNLV. Last week:
Beat Utah State 35-17.

21. Oklahoma (2-2)

Points: 346. Previous ranking: 8. This week: Saturday vs. Baylor (ABC, 3:30).
Last week: Lost to then-No. 21 Miami (Fla.) 21-20.

22. Nebraska (3-1)

Points: 329. Previous ranking: 24. This week: Thursday at No. 18 Missouri (ESPN,
9). Last week: Idle.

23. Georgia Tech (4-1)

Points: 278. Previous ranking: not ranked. This week: Saturday at Florida State
(ESPN2, 8). Last week: Beat Mississippi State 42-31.

24. South Florida (5-0)

Points: 220. Previous ranking: not ranked. Next game: Oct. 15 vs. No. 10
Cincinnati (ESPN, 7:30). Last week: Beat Syracuse 34-20.

25. Wisconsin (5-0)

Points: 156. Previous ranking: not ranked. This week: Saturday at No. 8 Ohio
State (ABC, 3:30). Last week: Beat Minnesota 31-28.

Dropped out: No. 14 Georgia (3-2, lost to No. 4 LSU 20-13), No. 15 Houston (3-1,
lost to Texas-El Paso 58-41), No. 19 California (3-2, lost to No. 7 Southern
California  30-3), No. 20 Michigan (4-1, lost to Michigan State 26-20 OT).

Others receiving votes: Georgia (3-2) 148; South Carolina (4-1) 128; Notre Dame
(4-1) 57; Houston (3-1) 52; Stanford (4-1) 43; Michigan (4-1) 33; Utah (3-1) 31;
Boston College (4-1) 15; Pittsburgh (4-1) 6; Arizona (3-1) 2; Arkansas (2-2) 1;
Central Michigan (4-1) 1; West Virginia (3-1) 1.

The USA TODAY Board of Coaches is made up of 59 head coaches at Bowl Subdivision
schools. All are members of the American Football Coaches Association.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              528 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 24, 2005, Monday, FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY Top 25 coaches' poll

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 13C

LENGTH: 734 words

1. Southern California (7-0)
Points: 1,540 (53 first-place votes). Previous ranking: 1.
This week: Saturday vs. Washington State (ABC, 3:30 p.m.
ET). Last week: Beat Washington 51-24.
2. Texas (7-0)
Points: 1,493 (8). Previous ranking: 2. This week: Saturday
at Oklahoma State (TBS, 7 p.m. ET). Last week: Beat
then-No. 8 Texas Tech 52-17.
3. Virginia Tech (7-0)
Points: 1,428 (1). Previous ranking: 3. This week: Thursday
vs. No. 11 Boston College (ESPN, 7:30 p.m. ET). Last
week: Beat Maryland 28-9.
4. Georgia (7-0)
Points: 1,357. Previous ranking: 4. This week: Saturday
vs. No. 18 Florida at Jacksonville (CBS, 3:30 p.m. ET). Last
week: Beat Arkansas 23-20.
5. Alabama (7-0)
Points: 1,277. Previous ranking: 5. This week: Saturday
vs. Utah State. Last week: Beat then-No. 18 Tennessee 6-3.
6. Miami (Fla.) (5-1)
Points: 1,226. Previous ranking: 6. This week: Saturday
vs. North Carolina (ABC or ESPN, 3:30 p.m. ET). Last week:
Game vs. Georgia Tech ppd. to Nov. 12.
7. LSU (5-1)
Points: 1,164. Previous ranking: 7. This week: Saturday
vs. North Texas. Last week: Beat then-No. 15 Auburn 20-17
OT.
8. UCLA (7-0)
Points: 1,136. Previous ranking: 9. This week: Saturday
at Stanford (Fox Sports Net, 6:30 p.m. ET). Last week: Beat
Oregon State 51-28.
9. Florida State (6-1)
Points: 1,003. Previous ranking: 10. This week: Saturday
vs. Maryland (ABC or ESPN, 3:30 p.m. ET). Last week: Beat
Duke 55-24.
10. Notre Dame (5-2)
Points: 934. Previous ranking: 12. Next game: Nov. 5 vs.
No. 25 Tennessee (NBC, 1:30 p.m. ET). Last week: Beat Brigham
Young 49-23.
11. Boston College (6-1)
Points: 870. Previous ranking: 11. This week: Thursday
at No. 3 Virginia Tech (ESPN, 7:30 p.m. ET). Last week: Idle.
12. Penn State (7-1)
Points: 835. Previous ranking: 14. This week: Saturday
vs. Purdue (ABC, 3:30 p.m. ET). Last week: Beat Illinois 63-10.
13. Ohio State (5-2)
Points: 803. Previous ranking: 13. This week: Saturday at
No. 22 Minnesota (ABC, noon ET). Last week: Beat Indiana
41-10.
14. Oregon (7-1)
Points: 712. Previous ranking: 16. Next game: Nov. 5 vs.
No. 21 California. Last week: Beat Arizona 28-21.
15. Wisconsin (7-1)
Points: 677. Previous ranking: 17. This week: Saturday at
Illinois (ESPN, noon ET). Last week: Beat Purdue 31-20.
16. Texas Tech (6-1)
Points: 603. Previous ranking: 8. This week: Saturday at
Baylor (Fox Sports Net, 12:30 p.m. ET). Last week: Lost to
No. 2 Texas 52-17.
17. West Virginia (6-1)
Points: 539. Previous ranking: 20. Next game: Nov. 2 vs.
Connecticut (ESPN2, 7:30 p.m. ET). Last week: Game vs.
South Florida ppd. to Dec. 3.
18. Florida (5-2)
Points: 513. Previous ranking: 19. This week: Saturday
vs. No. 4 Georgia at Jacksonville (CBS, 3:30 p.m. ET). Last
week: Idle.
19. Auburn (5-2)
Points: 427. Previous ranking: 15. This week: Saturday
vs. Mississippi. Last week: Lost to No. 7 LSU 20-17 OT.
20. TCU (7-1)
Points: 383. Previous ranking: 21. This week: Saturday at
San Diego State. Last week: Beat Air Force 48-10.
21. California (6-2)
Points: 276. Previous ranking: 23. Next game: Nov. 5 at
No. 14 Oregon. Last week: Beat Washington State 42-38.
22. Minnesota (5-2)
Points: 189. Previous ranking: 25. This week: Saturday
vs. No. 13 Ohio State (ABC, noon ET). Last week: Idle.
23. Northwestern (5-2)
Points: 179. Previous ranking: Not ranked. This week:
Saturday vs. Michigan (ESPN, 7 p.m. ET). Last week: Beat
then-No. 22 Michigan State 49-14.
24. Fresno State (5-1)
Points: 134. Previous ranking: Not ranked. This week:
Saturday at Hawaii (ABC, 7 p.m. ET). Last week: Beat Idaho
40-10.
25. Tennessee (3-3)
Points: 133. Previous ranking: 18. This week: Saturday
vs. South Carolina (ESPN2, 7:45 p.m. ET). Last week: Lost to
No. 5 Alabama 6-3.
Dropped out: No. 22 Michigan
State (4-3, lost to then-unranked
Northwestern 49-14),
No. 24 Virginia (4-3, lost to
North Carolina 7-5).
Others receiving votes: Louisville
(5-2) 103; Michigan (5-3)
59; Colorado (5-2) 45; Texas
A&M (5-2) 25; Texas-El Paso
(5-1) 24; Georgia Tech (4-2)
23; Missouri (5-2) 14; Virginia
(4-3) 11; Toledo (6-1) 5; Boise
State (5-2) 3; Clemson (4-3) 2;
Nebraska (5-2) 2; Maryland
(4-3) 1; Oklahoma (4-3) 1;
Rutgers (5-2) 1.
The USA TODAY board of coaches is made up of 62 head coaches at Division
I-A institutions. All are members of the American Football Coaches Association.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              529 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 28, 2005 Monday

Geeked on ranking college football;
Computer analysts' common denominator: They were fans first

BYLINE: John Maher, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1250 words


To many college football fans they're geeks, nerds, the computer glitches in the
Bowl Championship Series formula that determines the teams for the national
championship game.

But the people who put out the six computer rankings that count for one-third of
the BCS standings probably have as much, if not more, in common with Joe Fan
than the average voter in the two "human" polls that make up the BCS formula.

True, there is an astrophysicist and an MIT graduate in the bunch, but there's
also Richard Billingsley, who said, "If I turn the computer on and it works,
that's great. If not, I call the computer repairman."

For now, the BCS computers might as well be powered down. As long as Texas and
Southern California remain unbeaten, it doesn't take any algorithms to figure
out that they should, and will, meet in the Rose Bowl on Jan. 4 for the national
championship.

But should either team stumble Saturday -- Texas plays Colorado in the Big 12
championship game and USC faces rival UCLA -- the computers will be whirring to
determine which of the many one-loss teams would get the coveted spot in the
Rose Bowl. Once again, college football's national championship would be
determined by guys like Jeff Anderson and Chris Hester.

What qualifies them?

"Chris Hester and I are college football fans that know enough about computers
to put rankings together," said Anderson, whose computer formula figures into
the BCS mix. "It would be hard to watch more college football than I do; I've
got every (TV) plan there is."

Like their peers, Billingsley and Anderson were avid college football fans who
eventually tried to devise their own way of rating teams.

"Each program has its own flavor, although sometimes you're recooking the same
stew," said Wes Colley, who worked on his Colley Matrix as a research project
while a graduate student at Princeton.

Colley only tracks Division I-A games, so a season-opening loss to Division I-AA
UC-Davis didn't count against Stanford on his computer. "It started to be
embarrassing that Stanford was in the top 25," Colley said.

Yet, so far the computers agree on a couple of things: All but one of them have
Texas ranked No. 1, and none of them likes Louisiana State as much as the human
voters do.

The computerized rankings didn't have any official status until the BCS began in
1998 and used three of them, but mathematical rankings and college football have
a long history. Other mathematical ranking systems even outdate the most popular
human polls. The Associated Press didn't start publishing its rankings until the
1936 season.

In contrast, in 1926 an economics professor at the University of Illinois, Frank
Dickinson, developed his ranking. Dick Houlgate followed in 1927 with his
version, and Dick Dunkel started an index in 1929. The Index is now in its third
generation of Dunkels and can be used as a way to handicap games.

College football and math seemed to be made for each other. Unlike other NCAA
sports, there's no playoff or large meet to determine the national champion.
College football teams play a small number of games, even compared with
professional football teams, and for much of the sport's history, the teams have
been relatively isolated by regions.

What intrigues mathematicians, however, is that there is always someone who has
played someone who has played someone else, and so there is the hope of
connecting all those dots in an understandable universe, not merely of the top
10 or top 25 teams, but everyone in college football.

"It's like six degrees of separation, you can still connect the teams," said
Peter Wolfe, an associate professor at UCLA who runs one of the six BCS
computers.

Jeff Sagarin, who's one of the pioneers of computer rankings, tracks 239
Division I-A and I-AA teams. The list appears in USA Today, which has published
his rankings since 1985. Wolfe goes even further, following about 700 teams all
the way down to Division III and NAIA schools, including dead-last Trinity Bible
College in North Dakota.

Wolfe checks Web sites of the smaller schools and even gets e-mails from people
to keep track of all the scores.

Sagarin said, "Even if we had the same formulas, we have different data coming
in. My universe is 239 teams, Colley's is 119 (Division I-A schools)."

Sagarin's formula  was based on a model used for chess masters. Sagarin said the
key difference between chess and college football is that in chess everyone has
losses or ties.

Sagarin explained, "Undefeated teams blow up the algorithms. If Harvard is
undefeated, the math says that Harvard is infinitely better than a Tennessee
team that has lost. But people wouldn't buy that. You have to coordinate the
math with reality. That's where the tweaking comes in. You want to have results
that strike an intuitive chord."

Billingsley started experimenting with his system in 1968, and it took him a
couple of years to get something he was comfortable with. Rather than following
some mathematical ideal, Billingsley's is the most intuitive of the rating
systems.

He has what he calls checks and balances, attempts to get a system close to how
he has perceived teams through the years. One of the differences in his system
is that Billingsley gives teams credit for the rankings of the teams they've
beaten at the time of the game. A No. 1 team in September that turns out to be a
a No. 23 team in November is still computed as a No. 1 for that first  big
upset.

Anderson's system has been accused of being a way of correcting a perceived
slight to the University of Washington, which went undefeated in 1991 and still
didn't finish No. 1 in the AP poll.  Anderson said that's not the case.

"Chris Hester and I were always dissatisfied with the polls," he said. "We
thought they undervalued West Coast teams. The human polls tend to reward people
for not playing anyone. The way to move up there is through attrition as others
lose."

Colley started his rankings in 1992 as a project at Princeton after looking at,
and disagreeing with, some of the results of the New York Times computer
rankings.

When it began in 1998, the BCS used three computer rankings, Sagarin's, the New
York Times and Anderson & Hester's. The BCS went to eight polls the next year
and then picked up Colley and Wolfe in 2001 when two other rankings were
dropped. By the current BCS guidelines all of the programs count only wins and
losses, not the margin of victory.

"There are a lot of computer programs out there for football," Billingsley said.
"I think these are the best six in the world."

As for fan complaints about computer nerds, Massey said, "A geek? I'm going to
have my name in the college football history books. Not many people have that."

jmaher@statesman.com; 445-3956

(box)

How the computers rank 'em

Six computers factor into the Bowl Championship Series standings released each
week. The highest and lowest computer ranking for each team is disregarded, and
the other four rankings are averaged. That average accounts for one-third of the
BCS formula, with two "human" polls accounting for the other two-thirds. The
final BCS standings come out next Sunday and will determine which two teams play
for the national title in the Rose Bowl. Here is how the six computers ranked
the top teams last week:

Computer USC Texas Penn St. LSU Va. Tech

Anderson & Hester 2nd 1st 3rd 9th 4th

Billingsley 1st 2nd 4th 5th 3rd

Colley Matrix 2nd 1st 3rd 8th 4th

Massey 2nd 1st 3rd 11th 5th

Sagarin 2nd 1st 3rd 9th 5th

Wolfe 2nd 1st 3rd 8th 4th

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                              530 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 28, 2005 Monday

Geeked on ranking college football;
Computer analysts' common denominator: They were fans first

BYLINE: John Maher, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1250 words


To many college football fans they're geeks, nerds, the computer glitches in the
Bowl Championship Series formula that determines the teams for the national
championship game.

But the people who put out the six computer rankings that count for one-third of
the BCS standings probably have as much, if not more, in common with Joe Fan
than the average voter in the two "human" polls that make up the BCS formula.

True, there is an astrophysicist and an MIT graduate in the bunch, but there's
also Richard Billingsley, who said, "If I turn the computer on and it works,
that's great. If not, I call the computer repairman."

For now, the BCS computers might as well be powered down. As long as Texas and
Southern California remain unbeaten, it doesn't take any algorithms to figure
out that they should, and will, meet in the Rose Bowl on Jan. 4 for the national
championship.

But should either team stumble Saturday -- Texas plays Colorado in the Big 12
championship game and USC faces rival UCLA -- the computers will be whirring to
determine which of the many one-loss teams would get the coveted spot in the
Rose Bowl. Once again, college football's national championship would be
determined by guys like Jeff Anderson and Chris Hester.

What qualifies them?

"Chris Hester and I are college football fans that know enough about computers
to put rankings together," said Anderson, whose computer formula figures into
the BCS mix. "It would be hard to watch more college football than I do; I've
got every (TV) plan there is."

Like their peers, Billingsley and Anderson were avid college football fans who
eventually tried to devise their own way of rating teams.

"Each program has its own flavor, although sometimes you're recooking the same
stew," said Wes Colley, who worked on his Colley Matrix as a research project
while a graduate student at Princeton.

Colley only tracks Division I-A games, so a season-opening loss to Division I-AA
UC-Davis didn't count against Stanford on his computer. "It started to be
embarrassing that Stanford was in the top 25," Colley said.

Yet, so far the computers agree on a couple of things: All but one of them have
Texas ranked No. 1, and none of them likes Louisiana State as much as the human
voters do.

The computerized rankings didn't have any official status until the BCS began in
1998 and used three of them, but mathematical rankings and college football have
a long history. Other mathematical ranking systems even outdate the most popular
human polls. The Associated Press didn't start publishing its rankings until the
1936 season.

In contrast, in 1926 an economics professor at the University of Illinois, Frank
Dickinson, developed his ranking. Dick Houlgate followed in 1927 with his
version, and Dick Dunkel started an index in 1929. The Index is now in its third
generation of Dunkels and can be used as a way to handicap games.

College football and math seemed to be made for each other. Unlike other NCAA
sports, there's no playoff or large meet to determine the national champion.
College football teams play a small number of games, even compared with
professional football teams, and for much of the sport's history, the teams have
been relatively isolated by regions.

What intrigues mathematicians, however, is that there is always someone who has
played someone who has played someone else, and so there is the hope of
connecting all those dots in an understandable universe, not merely of the top
10 or top 25 teams, but everyone in college football.

"It's like six degrees of separation, you can still connect the teams," said
Peter Wolfe, an associate professor at UCLA who runs one of the six BCS
computers.

Jeff Sagarin, who's one of the pioneers of computer rankings, tracks 239
Division I-A and I-AA teams. The list appears in USA Today, which has published
his rankings since 1985. Wolfe goes even further, following about 700 teams all
the way down to Division III and NAIA schools, including dead-last Trinity Bible
College in North Dakota.

Wolfe checks Web sites of the smaller schools and even gets e-mails from people
to keep track of all the scores.

Sagarin said, "Even if we had the same formulas, we have different data coming
in. My universe is 239 teams, Colley's is 119 (Division I-A schools)."

Sagarin's formula  was based on a model used for chess masters. Sagarin said the
key difference between chess and college football is that in chess everyone has
losses or ties.

Sagarin explained, "Undefeated teams blow up the algorithms. If Harvard is
undefeated, the math says that Harvard is infinitely better than a Tennessee
team that has lost. But people wouldn't buy that. You have to coordinate the
math with reality. That's where the tweaking comes in. You want to have results
that strike an intuitive chord."

Billingsley started experimenting with his system in 1968, and it took him a
couple of years to get something he was comfortable with. Rather than following
some mathematical ideal, Billingsley's is the most intuitive of the rating
systems.

He has what he calls checks and balances, attempts to get a system close to how
he has perceived teams through the years. One of the differences in his system
is that Billingsley gives teams credit for the rankings of the teams they've
beaten at the time of the game. A No. 1 team in September that turns out to be a
a No. 23 team in November is still computed as a No. 1 for that first  big
upset.

Anderson's system has been accused of being a way of correcting a perceived
slight to the University of Washington, which went undefeated in 1991 and still
didn't finish No. 1 in the AP poll.  Anderson said that's not the case.

"Chris Hester and I were always dissatisfied with the polls," he said. "We
thought they undervalued West Coast teams. The human polls tend to reward people
for not playing anyone. The way to move up there is through attrition as others
lose."

Colley started his rankings in 1992 as a project at Princeton after looking at,
and disagreeing with, some of the results of the New York Times computer
rankings.

When it began in 1998, the BCS used three computer rankings, Sagarin's, the New
York Times and Anderson & Hester's. The BCS went to eight polls the next year
and then picked up Colley and Wolfe in 2001 when two other rankings were
dropped. By the current BCS guidelines all of the programs count only wins and
losses, not the margin of victory.

"There are a lot of computer programs out there for football," Billingsley said.
"I think these are the best six in the world."

As for fan complaints about computer nerds, Massey said, "A geek? I'm going to
have my name in the college football history books. Not many people have that."

jmaher@statesman.com; 445-3956

(box)

How the computers rank 'em

Six computers factor into the Bowl Championship Series standings released each
week. The highest and lowest computer ranking for each team is disregarded, and
the other four rankings are averaged. That average accounts for one-third of the
BCS formula, with two "human" polls accounting for the other two-thirds. The
final BCS standings come out next Sunday and will determine which two teams play
for the national title in the Rose Bowl. Here is how the six computers ranked
the top teams last week:

Computer USC Texas Penn St. LSU Va. Tech

Anderson & Hester 2nd 1st 3rd 9th 4th

Billingsley 1st 2nd 4th 5th 3rd

Colley Matrix 2nd 1st 3rd 8th 4th

Massey 2nd 1st 3rd 11th 5th

Sagarin 2nd 1st 3rd 9th 5th

Wolfe 2nd 1st 3rd 8th 4th

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                              531 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 19, 2013 Thursday

Brevard Named Among Nation's Best Liberal Arts Colleges

LENGTH: 207  words

DATELINE: Brevard


Brevard College has issued the following news release:

Brevard College is one of the nation's best liberal arts colleges, according to
the 2014 issue of U.S. News & World Report's "Best Colleges" guide.

The rankings, released online today, include Brevard College among the guide's
"Best National Liberal Arts College" '.

"Accolades and rankings like these are always gratifying," said Brevard College
President David Joyce. "We still feel that the best way to assess whether the
benefits of any college is for families to do their own research.  We invite
prospective students to come explore our campus, meet with our admissions staff
and faculty and learn more about an experiential education at Brevard College."

This year, U.S. News & World Report collected data on more than 1,800 colleges
overall, ranking them on up to 16 factors, including high school counselor
ratings, financial resources, alumni giving, assessment by administrators at
peer institutions, faculty resources, student selectivity, and the retention of
students.

For a full list of college rankings, visit the U.S. News website at
www.usnews.com/college. The magazine issue hits newsstands on September 24,
2013.

For more information please visit: http://www.brevard.edu.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              532 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                             August 17, 2007 Friday

Utah schools not joining U.S. News boycott

BYLINE: Wendy Leonard Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 465 words


New college rankings have hit the public eye, along with much scrutiny of how
the process of placing the schools is done.

Earlier this year, a band of liberal arts schools joined together under the name
of education activist Lloyd Thacker. He is encouraging schools to boycott the
U.S. News & World Report list, calling it nothing more than an annual beauty
contest.

The rankings receive such criticism due to the fact that 25 percent of how the
1,400 included institutions are weighed and measured has to do with popular
opinion -- or what the magazine calls "peer assessment."

Westminster College, Utah's only comprehensive liberal arts college, agrees that
many college ratings systems are flawed, which raises serious questions about
the validity of the rankings done by U.S. News.

"None of the factors they rate say anything about what or how learning happens
once the students are in college," said Westminster President Michael Bassis. He
said the "peers" evaluating the schools have no real knowledge of what happens
on campus.

The Salt Lake City school ranks fairly well in the U.S. News listing year after
year and has no plans to discontinue participation in the magazine's popular
list. But the school is joining the Association of Independent Colleges and
Universities in the development of an alternate consumer information system that
is designed to capture the most salient information on colleges for use by
prospective students and their families.

"We will continue to encourage people who are comparing colleges to evaluate
many factors," Bassis said. "Picking a college isn't easy but given the impact
that decision can have on a student's life, it is worth the time and effort to
compare schools on the full range of issues that truly matter."

About 62 schools, most of them smaller institutions, have joined the anti-
rankings campaign. And it had a "a negligible effect on the outcome of the
report," said U.S. News & World Report Editor Brian Kelly.

"It's not very significant," he said. "It's a very small group of schools ... we
respect their position on this but we have a philosophical disagreement with
them."

Dissenters of the list believe that the quality of institutions cannot be
reduced to numbers, but Kelly said in a conference call Thursday that "colleges,
on some levels, can be looked at through broad measures."

Other colleges and universities in Utah had no intention of withdrawing from the
rankings protocol, and Amanda Covington, spokeswoman for the Utah System of
Higher Education, said earlier this year that despite the controversy, the
rankings have been a helpful marketing tool and the Board of Regents, the
governing body for Utah's public colleges and universities, would not encourage
any institution to join the boycott. E-mail: wleonard@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                              533 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                            January 31, 2012 Tuesday

Claremont McKenna College admits giving false SAT scores to publications

BYLINE: Wes Woods II, Inland Valley Daily Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 797 words


On Twitter:Discussion |@CMCnews

CLAREMONT --Claremont McKenna College has admitted that for the past six years
it has submitted false SAT scores to publications like U.S. News & World Report
that use the data in widely followed college rankings.

Colleges are under "constant pressure" to account for their place in the
rankings, said Barmak Nassirian, associate executive director for the American
Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers, on Tuesday.

"Ironically, for Claremont McKenna, as a highly regarded institution they
shouldn't have to worry about it," Nassirian said. "... (Employees) are
constantly struggling to explain to the stakeholders like the president, board,
alumni and whoever else as to why they were No. 10 instead of No. 9. Why they
jumped two notches up or one notch down."

In the most recent ranking among national liberal arts colleges, CMC was listed
as ninth in the nation. In 2011, the college was 11th. In 2005, the year the
college said the cheating began, CMC was tied for 10th place.

"Earlier this month, I received information from within the College that the
Office of Admission had reported inaccurate SAT statistics for the fall 2011
entering class," said president Pamela Gann in a letter to the Claremont McKenna
College community on Monday.

"Upon receiving this information, I asked Jerome Garris, Vice President and Dean
Emeritus, to conduct a review of this issue in coordination with the Office of
Institutional Research. During Dean Garris' review of this matter, a senior
administrator in the Office of Admission disclosed that he had been solely
responsible for falsely reporting SAT statistics since 2005.

"Although the degree of inaccuracies varied over time, we understand that the
reported critical reading and/or math SAT scores were generally inflated by an
average of 10-20 points each. For the fall 2010 class, which is the most recent
year that has been reported generally to the public, the individual reported a
combined median of 1,410 when the actual should have been 1,400, and reported a
75th percentile score of 1,510 when the actual should have been 1,480. It is
also important to note that, while overall statistics were manipulated, we do
not have reason to believe any student's individual score was altered."

The letter continues that "... the individual has taken full responsibility and
has resigned his position from the College effective immediately. At this time,
we have no reason to believe that other individuals were involved. If we learn
otherwise, we will take prompt and appropriate action."

The administrator who resigned was not identified, but former vice president and
dean of admissions and financial aid Richard Vos is no longer employed by the
school, said CMC spokesman Max Benavidez. The spokesman would "neither confirm
or deny" that Vos was the person involved.

These scores are used in the annual Best Colleges rankings and have a weight of
7.5 percent, said columnist Bob Morse on the website of U.S. News & World
Report. The school also misreported its data to the U.S. Department of Education
and Western Association of Schools and Colleges, according to the website.

Morse said on Tuesday U.S. News will not change the current rankings on its
site.

"When CMC does supply USNEWS with the full SAT average component Math and
Critical Reading average scores needed to recompile its own rankings, we will
say in writing on my blog to what degree the SAT falsification impacted school's
ranking," Morse said in an emailed comment.

Morse said U.S. News will conduct more cross-checking of data from public
sources in the future, but plans to compile the rankings in the same way.

"We think the ends never justify the means and that the negative press and
embarrassment from such events should act as a big deterrent against such
practices by other colleges," Morse said in the email. "Schools should be
examples of honesty, not become examples of how to manipulate the system."

Claremont McKenna College is having legal counsel from O'Melveny & Myers
complete an independent review of the college's admission-related data
processes.

Nassirian said the environment was "most troubling" at CMC.

"Ponder the fact that the very president (Gann) who bemoans the data also very
openly celebrates the institution's rankings on her webpage. What does that say
about the culture? It's a matter of environment."

Nassirian added the college would survive the matter.

"This is not a catastrophe," Nassirian said. "At the end of the day it's a fine
institution. Nothing has subsequently changed. Not the value and quality of
education. It can be treated as a teachable moment for all of us in higher
education. To be more circumspect about being in competition with each other."
Reach Wes at @ClaremontNow.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              534 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday

ISU moves up college ranks IWU maintains same spot on magazine's list

BYLINE: Pantagraph staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 310 words


NORMAL - Illinois State University has moved up slightly on the annual U.S. News
& World Report rankings, while Illinois Wesleyan University maintained its 2009
position.

The report put ISU 156th among 262 of the nation's best universities. IWU was
62nd among 266 of the best liberal arts colleges for the second year, tying with
four others schools. Last year, U.S. News ranked Illinois State at 162.

Harvard University took the top spot among universities; Williams College was
No. 1 for liberal arts colleges.

ISU President Al Bowman said it's statistically difficult to compare rankings
from one year to the next, but he's glad ISU is moving in a positive direction.

The campus improved in the subcategories of acceptance rate, average freshman
retention rate, percent of classes of 50 or more, and percent of faculty who
work full time.

"Our freshmen retention rate is at an all-time high of 85 percent," said Bowman.

Illinois Wesleyan leaders believe such rankings are "an imperfect measurement,"
said Matt Kurz, IWU communications vice president. "But, given the difficult
financial situation the country and many colleges and universities are in, we
are pleased to be in the top tier," he said.

The rankings are based on public data but a portion of each score is based on
administrators' opinions.

U.S. News divides 319 smaller colleges among four regional lists. Eureka College
ranked fourth in Illinois and 29th in the region, both up a spot from the
previous year. The school was named one of the best in graduating students with
the "least debt."

Last week, Forbes Magazine considered 610 of "America's Best Colleges," with IWU
ranking No. 189 and ISU ranking No. 405.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2010 The Pantagraph


                              535 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            November 21, 2014 Friday

Madhya Pradesh moots proposal for ranking of engineering colleges

SECTION: BHOPAL

LENGTH: 393 words


BHOPAL: State government has mooted a proposal for ranking of engineering
colleges in Madhya Pradesh on the basis of infrastructure, faculty and academic
activities from the next year. Principal secretary (technical education), Sanjay
Singh put-forth this suggestion during a meeting of Madhya Pradesh Admission and
Fee Regulatory Committee (MPAFRC) and engineering colleges held here on
Wednesday.

The meeting was convened to suggest ideas to improve quality of engineering
courses and solutions in the wake of large number of seats remaining vacant in
colleges across the state.

Principal secretary Singh suggested, "Ranking of colleges would help students
seeking admissions to identify the better performing institutes and seek
admissions there." At present, there is no official ranking of engineering
colleges from the state.

College owners welcomed the suggestion but said rankings should be prepared by a
third party. "The purpose of preparing ranking would be solved only if it is
subject wise. It will help students at the time of taking admission," said a
college owner wishing anonymity.

For this purpose, it was suggested that the colleges should upload their entire
information including teaching faculty and vacant seats on the official portal
of directorate of technical education.

It was also suggested that minimum eligibility for admissions to engineering
courses on the basis of Class XII through college level counselling should be
increased from 45% to 50% to ensure that better students take admissions.

"We should only admit students with good marks. Poor students are primarily
responsible for the poor state of affairs in engineering courses. After
completing their degrees they do not get proper placements and instead they
blame colleges for it," said another college owner.

Colleges suggested that directorate of technical education should felicitate
better performing institutes in terms of studies, placements and others.
Besides, those colleges who have been poor performers consecutively for last 4
year should be closed, said a college owner.

Regarding improvement in teaching faculty, it was suggested that 'teaching
faculty development programme' should be organised round the year. Suggestions
put-forth at the meeting will be compiled for discussion at the higher level
before implementing them.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              536 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                            May 25, 2011, Wednesday

U.S. News ranks UC first among state s regional colleges

SECTION: METRO EAST; Pg. P7

LENGTH: 320 words


The University of Charleston is the highest-ranked regional college in West
Virginia in the 2011 edition of U.S. News & World Report's Best Colleges.

UC rose to #11 in the first-tier rankings of "Regional Colleges in the South."
Last year it was ranked #15. This marks the third year in a row that UC has
topped the list of West Virginia institutions in its category. (The designation
"regional college" replaces "baccalaureate college or university" used in
previous rankings).

The report, which includes rankings of more than 1,400 schools nationwide, has
been published in the September issue of U.S. News & World Report.

The U.S. News college rankings group schools based on categories created by the
Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, and are frequently relied
upon by students and parents considering higher education opportunities. They
use a set of up to 16 indicators of excellence, including peer assessment,
graduation and retention rates, faculty resources, student selectivity,
financial resources, and alumni giving. More information about Best Colleges is
available at www.usnews.com/colleges.

"I am proud of our faculty, our staff and our students for striving for
excellence in the delivery of higher education. When we reinvented the college
curriculum to focus on student learning instead of faculty teaching several
years ago, we set a process in motion that is beginning to be recognized both
nationally and internationally. This rise in the U.S. News ranking is a
reflection of those efforts," said UC President Ed Welch.

The University of Charleston offers students a "learning your way,"
performance-based curriculum that emphasizes outcomes and relies heavily on
assessment of students' actual learning. Enrollment has been on the rise for
several years, and school officials predict that the fall term will have more
full-time students than any year since 1972.

(Source: www.UCWV.edu)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Charleston Newspapers


                              537 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                             April 4, 2017 Tuesday
                                 Mumbai Mirror

IISC Bangalore tops again in National Institutional Ranking

BYLINE: Sobhana K Nair

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 547 words


New Delhi: Bengaluru's Indian Institute of Science (IISC) remains to be the top
educational institution of the country for the second consecutive year, as per
Human Resources and Development Ministry's National Institutional Ranking
framework.Releasing the 2017 rankings today in Capital, HRD Minister Prakash
Javadekar said that more grants and funds will be made available to the
institutions ranked higher. Four lists were released last year- universities,
engineering institutions, management and pharmacy. This year two more lists have
been added, one an overall category and second general studies colleges."Grants
and Funds will be more for higher ranked institutes; this will increase the
competition among the institutions.

We are making this vital change in the policy, to ensure that each institute
competes to be the best," said Javadekar said. The minister said that the
rankings will not only help students and parents to take a pick, but will also
improve international standing of the Indian institutes.While IISC maintains its
top position, interestingly, Jawaharlal Nehru University, which has remained the
centre-point of student's agitation against the Narendra Modi government has
stepped up from 3rd position in 2016 to the 2nd this year.Banaras Hindu
University, by far had the best improvement over its previous rating. In 2016 it
was on the 7th rung, but this year it rose to be the third best university.
Another institution that saw students' protest for a long time following death
of dalit student Rohith Vemula has slipped from 4th rank last year to
sixth.Meanwhile, in the newly introduced Overall list, seven of the top ten
positions are occupied by IITs. While the top position is with IISC Bangalore it
is followed by IIT Madras, IIT Mumbai, IIT Kharagpur and IIT Delhi.This is the
first time, the government has released a list of top 100 colleges.
Interestingly, six among the top-ten colleges are from Delhi University. The
list is topped by Miranda College, followed by Loyola College, Chennai, Shri Ram
College for Commerce, Delhi, Bishop Heber Tiruchirapalli, Tamil Nadu and Atma
Ram Sanathan Dharam College, Delhi.Around 20 ranking parameters were launched in
September 2015 by the government under the National Institutional Ranking
Framework (NIRF). The criteria used to rank the institutions included
teaching/learning resources, research, graduation outcomes (employability),
outreach/ social and gender inclusivity and perception. The government said it
emphasised on the quality of research and employer perception during the
exercise. The first rankings were made public in 2016.More than 3,300 institutes
were considered for the survey, however, it still isn't comprehensive since many
prominent colleges refused to be part of the rating. The list includes from
Delhi St Stephen's College, Hindu College, Delhi School of Economics, Ramjas
College and Hansraj College.BEST COLLEGES1) Miranda House, DU2) Loyola College,
Chennai3) Shri Ram College for Commerce, Delhi4) Bishop Heber-Tiruchirapalli,
Tamil Nadu5) Atma Ram Sanathan Dharm College, Delhi6) St Xavier's, Kolkata7)
Lady Shri Ram College, Delhi8) Dayal Singh, Delhi9) Deen Dayal Upadhaya College,
Delhi10) Women's Christian College, Chennai

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              538 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education

                              June 9, 2006 Friday

Group Endorses Principles for Ranking Universities

BYLINE: BURTON BOLLAG

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 40 Vol. 52 No. 40

LENGTH: 515 words


An international group of educators, higher-education experts, and publishers
that met in Berlin last month has come up with a set of principles for ranking
colleges and universities.

The 16 principles of good practice, dubbed the "Berlin Principles on Ranking of
Higher Education Institutions," are a response to the explosion of college
rankings in many countries since U.S. News & World Report published the first
such listings in 1983.

College rankings   or league tables, as they are known in Britain   were at
first widely dismissed in academe, but they appear to be popular with students
and their parents.

The Berlin principles are meant to serve as voluntary guidelines for groups that
produce rankings.

In a statement accompanying the list of principles, the group wrote that the
purpose of the guidelines was to ensure that "those producing rankings and
league tables hold themselves accountable for quality in their own data
collection, methodology, and dissemination."

Jamie P. Merisotis, president of the Institute for Higher Education Policy, an
independent group based in Washington, called the principles "the beginnings of
a self-regulatory process."

More Transparency

Among the principles are recommendations that rankings should: Recognize the
diversity of institutions and take the different missions and goals of
institutions into account; be transparent regarding the methodology used for
creating the rankings' measure outcomes, such as retention and graduation rates,
in preference to inputs, such as entrance-examination scores, whenever possible;
and offer consumers a choice in how rankings are displayed, such as by allowing
them to determine how factors are weighed on interactive Web sites.

The meeting, which was attended by 47 people from a dozen countries, was
organized by Mr. Merisotis's group and the Unesco-European Centre for Higher
Education, which is based in Bucharest, Romania.

'Some Corrections'

Jan Sadlak, director of the Unesco Centre, said the principles were meant to
improve what many academic leaders see as the superficial and capricious nature
of rankings. "If we're going to have to live with it, let's do it in the least
destructive way," he said.

Robert J. Morse, who directs the college rankings at U.S. News & World Report
and attended the Berlin meeting, says the publication has continually improved
its ranking system over the past two decades.

For example, criteria have been shifted to give more emphasis to outcomes and
less to input measures.

A more recent ranking system, run by the Institute of Higher Education, at
Shanghai Jiao Tong University, in China, is considered the most influential
international ranking. It has been criticized for giving too much emphasis to
Nobel Prizes won by faculty members, even decades earlier.

Officials at the Chinese institute are paying attention to those concerns, said
Mr. Sadlak, of Unesco. "There will be some corrections."

Another meeting, set for the fall of 2007 in Shanghai, will focus on the idea of
establishing a system of certification of rankings that follow principles of
good practice.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved


                              539 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                             August 18, 2006 Friday

U.S. News ranks BYU 70th and Utah 120th

BYLINE: By Shinika A. Sykes The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 395 words


Utah's colleges and universities continue to score well in U.S. News & World
Report's controversial but anticipated annual list of America's Best Colleges.
In its Aug. 28 edition which hits the newsstand Monday the magazine ranks the
undergraduate programs of 1,400 universities in various categories, ranging from
overall excellence to specialized programs and value.

Graduate programs will be ranked in April. Richard Brown, the U.'s dean of
engineering, attributes his college's ranking in part to the state's engineering
initiative, which has provided for a "significant investment" in new faculty
members, facilities and infrastructure. "The new Warnock Engineering cq
building, scheduled for completion this year, is an exciting new addition to the
college," he said Thursday. Another bright spot for the U. is its service
learning program, administered by the Lowell Bennion Community Service Center cq
on the U. campus. The U. was one of just 25 schools mentioned in that category.
Utah State University made the third tier overall list schools that rank between
125 and 180 on the U.S. News' scale ranking 7th for the least amount of debt
incurred for an undergraduate degree, with an average debt of $12,440. Other
Utah schools making the list of best schools in the West were Weber State
University, Utah Valley State College and Westminster College of Salt Lake. In
the overall rankings of America's Best College for 2007, Princeton has the No. 1
spot, followed by Harvard, Yale and California Institute of Technology. Many
college administrators say they don't place much value on the rankings, which
are based on evaluations of nearly 500 criteria, because it often takes years
for a change to be noticed. Still, they readily include the magazine ranking of
their school in marketing campaigns and on their Web sites. sykes@sltrib.com How
Utah colleges stack up Brigham Young University 70th overall excellence 37th
best business program University of Utah 120th overall excellence 60th best
engineering program Utah State University Overall excellence (third tier)
Westminster College of Salt Lake City 14th best master's program in the West
Weber State University 41st best master's program in the West Utah Valley State
College Best comprehensive college for bachelor's degree in the West For a
complete listing of the rankings, visit http://www.usnews.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              540 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                          September 9, 2015 Wednesday
                          SPORTS FINAL REPLATE EDITION

CLASS ACTS Princeton still ranked 1st, Columbia's No. 4

BYLINE: BY ERICA PEARSON NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 321 words


PRINCETON UNIVERSITY held on to its No. 1 ranking, and all the usual contenders
shined in the 2016 U.S. News & World Report Best Colleges report, released on
Wednesday.

Harvard and Yale were second and third among "national" universities in the
annual ranking, which relies on more than a dozen factors to compare academic
programs at nearly 1,800 schools.

In its rankings, U.S. News distinguishes between the so-called national schools
- which emphasize research and include master's and doctoral programs - and
liberal arts colleges.

Those schools focus on undergraduate programs and award at least half their
degrees in fields like English or economics. In New York State, only Columbia
cracked the top 10, tied for fourth with Stanford and the University of Chicago.
When it comes to cost, Columbia was the steepest among the 10, with yearly
tuition and fees at $51,008. Princeton costs $43,450 a year, making the school
the best value, according to U.S. News. The liberal arts rankings remained
steady, with Williams College in Massachusetts first. Amherst College, also in
Massachusetts, and Pennsylvania's Swarthmore College were second and third.
Amherst, at $50,562 a year, was ranked best value.

The top-ranking liberal arts schools in New York State are Vassar College in
Poughkeepsie (No. 12), Clinton's Hamilton College (No. 14) and Colgate
University in Hamilton (No 19).

In a new category, Arizona State University-Tempe was rated most "innovative"
among the national universities. Among liberal arts colleges, New York's Bard
College was in a four-way tie at the top with Colorado College, North Carolina's
Davidson College and Franklin & Marshall College in Pennsylvania.

epearson@nydailynews.com

Graphic:

Top 3 national universities:

1. Princeton

2. Harvard

3. Yale

New York's top national universities:

Columbia (tied for 4)

Cornell (15)

New York University (32)

University of Rochester (33)

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (41)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC;INFOGRAPHIC;LIST, NLVL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Daily News, L.P.


                              541 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                  Public Opinion (Chambersburg, Pennsylvania)

                            August 17, 2010 Tuesday

Franklin County schools make 'Best Colleges' list

BYLINE: Staff report

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 580 words


Wilson College and Shippensburg University both made U.S. News & World Report's
list of "America's Best Colleges" and "America's Best Universities"
respectively.

Wilson ranked 15th overall in the category of best regional colleges focused on
undergraduate education in the northern region, up from a ranking of 17th in the
category last year, according to U.S. News & World Report's 2011 "America's Best
Colleges" issue.

It is the eighth consecutive year that Wilson has been recognized in the
rankings. U.S. News examined 70 colleges in the northern region to determine
Wilson's placement.

Wilson was also named the best value college in its category.

Highlights of the rankings will be printed in the magazine's September issue,
which will be on newsstands Aug. 31.

For the 10th straight year, Wilson has been honored as a best value college in
the North, moving up from seventh to first in the category for regional colleges
in the North.

The category considers a school's academic quality and the net cost of
attendance for a student who receives the average level of need-based financial
aid. The higher the quality and the lower the cost, the better the deal,
according to the U.S. News rankings

"I cannot imagine a better category in which to be ranked first than as a 'best
value' college," said Dr. Lorna Duphiney Edmundson, Wilson's president, in a
news release. "High in quality and affordable -- that is just where Wilson has
sought to be since its founding 140 years ago. To be recognized nationally for
giving all qualified students the opportunity to pursue a Wilson education, no
matter what their financial circumstances may be, is very rewarding."

U.S. News modified some of its category names this year to make classifications
easier for readers to understand. Wilson previously was listed in the category
for baccalaureate colleges in the northern region, but is now listed as a
regional college in the North.

U.S. News uses a variety of data to calculate the rankings for regional
colleges, including such factors as assessments by administrators at peer
institutions (25 percent), graduation and retention rates (25 percent), faculty
resources (20 percent), student selectivity (15 percent), financial resources
(10 percent) and alumni giving rates (5 percent).

In addition, Wilson was listed among all regional colleges with a high
proportion of classes under 20 students. According to U.S. News, 82 percent of
Wilson's classes have fewer than 20 students.

In the "Great Schools, Great Prices" category for regional northern colleges
offering mainly bachelor's degrees, Wilson's ranking of first among 10 colleges
(only schools ranked in or near the top half of their categories are included)
shows that 83 percent of its students receive aid, for an average discount of 48
percent based on 2009 data.

Shippensburg University was ranked 77th in the category "Regional Universities
(North)" based on, in part, academic excellence and how it ranks among its
peers.

"We're very proud of our ranking," SU Communications Director Pete Gigliotti
said. "An objective observer of our institution recognized the quality of
service provided to our students, and also to the Commonwealth. I've been here
22 years and we've been ranked every year. It shows we've been doing a lot of
things right for a very long time."

U.S. News ranked SU as the 23rd best university in the Masters category, which
includes institutions offering bachelor's and master's degrees but few doctoral
degrees.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2010 Public Opinion
                              All Rights Reserved


                              542 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             July 12, 2016 Tuesday

Virginia: VMI Ranked Eighth Among Liberal Arts Colleges

LENGTH: 435  words

DATELINE: New York



 Richmond: Virginia Military Institute has issued the following news release:



 Virginia Military Institute is ranked eighth among liberal arts colleges
nationwide in Money magazine's annual college rankings, released today. The only
school in Virginia ranked higher than VMI among liberal arts colleges is
Washington and Lee University, which is ranked fifth.





 Overall, VMI ranked 42nd among more than 700 public and private colleges and
universities nationwide, up from 48th in Money's 2015 college rankings. Other
Virginia colleges and universities included in the overall rankings were the
University of Virginia, ranked ninth; Virginia Tech, 18th; Washington and Lee
University, 29th; and the College of William and Mary, 36th.



 VMI was ranked 20th on Money's list of public colleges and universities, down
from 16th last year. Other Virginia schools included on the magazine's list of
the top 20 public colleges and universities were U.Va., ranked third; Virginia
Tech, ninth; and the College of William and Mary, 16th.



 In compiling its rankings. Money took into consideration 24 factors in three
equally weighted categories: educational quality, affordability, and alumni
success.



 In the first category, educational quality, much weight is given to graduation
rates, including the six-year graduation rate and the value-added graduation
rate, which is the difference between a school's actual graduation rate and its
expected rate, based on the economic and academic profile of the student body.
Money calculated VMI's graduation rate at 71 percent.



 The second category, affordability, is calculated by taking into account the
net price of a degree, debt, and student loan and default risk, among other
factors. For VMI, the estimated cost for a student not receiving aid was
$28,100, and for a student receiving aid, $13,800. The average debt for a VMI
graduate was $23,500. Sixty-six percent of VMI cadets receive either need-based
or merit financial aid.



 For the third category, alumni success, Money used alumni earnings, both within
five years of graduation and mid-career, as self-reported to Payscale.com , an
independent website that allows individuals to report their earnings and compare
their data with those of others of similar experience and skills. Money reported
that a VMI graduate's average salary within five years was $56,400. In addition,
Money took into account the percentage of a school's graduates who consider
themselves to be in "meaningful" jobs.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com Virginia:

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              543 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                             August 20, 2004 Friday

U.S. News ranks area colleges in top tier; Categorically, Clarke is No. 18 and
Loras 19

BYLINE: MADELIN FUERSTE

SECTION: Tristate; Pg. a3

LENGTH: 352 words


The wait is over for Clarke College, Loras College and the University of Dubuque
as U.S. News and World Report released its list of America's Best Colleges 2005.
All three Dubuque schools earned "top tier" recognition.

Clarke jumped five spots to 18th among the 109 Midwestern schools ranked in the
"Comprehensive Colleges - Bachelor" category for the magazine's annual
"America's Best Colleges" guidebook. Loras College tied three other schools for
the 19th spot. The rankings were posted Thursday on www.usnews.com

Clarke President, Sister Catherine Dunn, BVM, is pleased with the ranking.

"We're still tops of the three (colleges) in the community," she said.

Dunn said she and her administration make a concerted effort to keep magazine
rankings in perspective.

"We don't get into that mode of using this as we're No. 18 and next year we need
to be No. 10 on our campus," Dunn said.

In a statement issued from Loras College, President Jim Collins said, "I am
extremely pleased to see that Loras has moved to the 19th spot, up from last
year's 25th."

The University of Dubuque ranked 63rd in the magazine's best place to earn a
master's degree among schools in the Midwest. The University of
Wisconsin-Platteville tied UD, along with three other schools. Both schools were
considered second tier in last year's rankings, but climbed to the top tier in
the 2005 list.

For its annual rankings of nearly 1,400 colleges and universities, U.S. News
categorizes each school primarily by mission and, in some cases, region. Schools
are judged in 15 areas related to academic excellence, including academic
reputation, retention and graduation rates, faculty resources, financial
resources and alumni giving.

Princeton and Harvard tied as the top universities in the country.

St. Mary's College in Indiana was first among Midwest Comprehensive Colleges
-Bachelor's, a category the magazine defines as institutions that focus on
undergraduate education and offer a range of degree programs in the liberal
arts.

The University of Iowa ranked 58th, and Iowa State 84th, among national
universities.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2004 Woodward Communications, Inc.


                              544 of 995 DOCUMENTS


            Colorado Springs Business Journal (Colorado Springs, CO)

                           September 13, 2011 Tuesday

AFA ranks in top colleges list - again

BYLINE: Amy Gillentine

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 324  words


The Air Force Academy is ranked No.1  in the nation by high school guidance
counselors and second in the nation by  aeronautical and astronautical
engineers.

Those were just two among many other top-tier rankings the Academy claimed in
U.S. News & World Report's Best College Rankings for 2012.

The high school counselor rankings category was added this year, and the Air
Force Academy was ranked number one among liberal arts colleges in this new
category.

The Academy ranked second-best in the nation in aeronautical and astronautical
engineering among undergraduate programs, for the 11th consecutive year.
Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University's main campus in Daytona Beach, Fla.,
retained the top spot, while its Prescott, Arizona campus came in third this
year.

The Air Force Academy tied for the No. 5 ranking of best undergraduate
engineering programs, with Cal-Poly and the U.S. Naval Academy.

One of the Air Force Academy's other engineering programs, electrical
engineering, also earned the fifth slot in this year's rankings of undergraduate
electrical engineering programs.

The Academy also received several other rankings:

* The Academy is tied for 33rd in the national liberal arts colleges rankings,
and under that category, came in at third for top public schools

* The Academy also ranked no. 55 among best undergraduate business programs.

This is the third time this semester that the Air Force Academy has been ranked
among the top universities in the nation. Forbes ranked the Air Force Academy
tenth in the nation on its 2011 America's Best Colleges List, which was released
Aug. 3.

Also, the Princeton Review released their The Best 376 Colleges book on Aug. 2,
which ranks the Air Force Academy fifth in the nation in professor availability,
and ranks the Academy's administration as ninth in the nation.

For more information on the U.S. News & World Report rankings which were
released today, visit http://www.usnews.com/education.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              545 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               August 22, 2003 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

WU CLIMBS TO 9TH PLACE IN RANKING OF SCHOOLS

BYLINE: Susan C. Thomson Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 342 words


Long among U.S. News & World Report's Top 20 national universities for
undergraduates, Washington University this year has broken into the Top 10 for
the first time.

In the magazine's latest rankings, released Thursday, Washington ties with
Dartmouth College for ninth place.

Washington still must look up to Harvard, Princeton and Yale, but this year it
can look down at the likes of Columbia, Northwestern, Chicago and Cornell.

Since 1994, when it came in 20th, Washington University has been upwar dly
mobile in the rankings. Last year it came in 12th. This year's three-place leap
was its largest since then.

"It's good to see others recognize some of our progress," chancellor Mark S.
Wrighton said.

The magazine bases its rankings to some extent on numbers. Wrighton said
Washington University had come up on several of the magazine's measures,
including quality of students, number of applications and selectivity of
admissions.

The university also has strengthened its faculty, rewarded it with c ompetitive
pay and invested in equipment and buildings, he said.

He noted that the recognition from the magazine comes as the university
celebrates its 150th anniversary.

The magazine will publish the rankings in an issue due out next week. The list
of national universities is the most-watched of many the magazine does. It also
ranks four-year colleges and publishes separate regional lists of both
universities and colleges.

====================

U.S. News & World Report's Top 20

1. (tie) Harvard University

Princeton University

3. Yale University

4. Massachusetts Institute of Technology

5. (tie) California Institute of Technology

Duke University

Stanford University

University of Pennsylvania

9. (tie) Dartmouth College

Washington University

11. (tie) Columbia University

Northwestern University

13. University of Chicago

14. (tie) Cornell University

Johns Hopkins University

16. Rice University

17. Brown University

18. Emory University

19. (tie) University of Notre Dame

Vanderbilt University

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Susan C. Thomson:; E-mail: sthomson@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-209-1315; ; Link to the full U.S. News and World Report college rankings
online at STLtoday.com/links.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              546 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 21, 2003, Tuesday

MIRROR ON THE CITY IN DUBLIN: TRINITY ON TOP

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 73 words


TRINITY College Dublin (TCD) has come out on top of neighbours University
College Dublin (UCD) in the rankings for university business schools.

The TCD programme has been pinpointed as Ireland's best in a global list of the
top 100 business schools for this year - coming in at 21st and one place ahead
of UCD.

That marks a change of positions - as over the past few years the UCD Smurfit
school has regularly beaten Trinity.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.


                              547 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            November 15, 2009 Sunday

Gustavus ranked on Kiplinger list

BYLINE: By Robb Murray Mankato Free Press

SECTION: FEATURES; Education

LENGTH: 338 words


Gustavus Adolphus College in St. Peter has been ranked among the top 50 "best
values" in higher education by Kiplinger's Personal Finance magazine.

The college ranked 40th and was among just a handful of colleges to make the
list.

Kiplinger's actually separates its rankings into two groups, liberal arts
colleges and universities.

No Minnesota institutions made the universities list. On the liberal arts list,
however, were a handful of MIAC schools.

Besides Gustavus, Minnesota liberal arts schools included Carleton College (13),
Macalaster College (25), St. Olaf College (30) and the College of Saint Benedict
(42).

"These rankings were based heavily on academic quality and affordability, which
are two key factors for prospective students and their families when they go
about making their college choice," said Mark Anderson, vice president for
enrollment management at Gustavus. "Our top 40 ranking is another sign that
Gustavus is one of the top private liberal arts colleges in the country."

Kiplinger's describes its list as "the top schools that provide a top- quality
education at an affordable price." The magazine also states on its Web site that
"our rankings measure academic quality and affordability, with quality
accounting for twothirds of the total."

The rankings take into account factors such as admission rate, ACT scores,
students per faculty, graduation rate, and several financial aid figures.

"We are proud of our outstanding faculty and the excellent academic programs
that we offer," Gustavus President Jack R. Ohle said. "We also work with
families to make a Gustavus education as affordable as possible."

Some may wonder how colleges that charge between $30,000 and $40,000 for a year
of higher education can be included on a list of "best values."

Most students who attend private colleges are awarded financial aid by the
institutions. They also qualify for federal financial aid and, in Minnesota's
case, the state grant program.

In many cases, the actual cost to students is about half the sticker price.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              548 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    Indian Country Today (Oneida, New York)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 29, 2010 Wednesday

CORRECTION: Leech Lake Tribal College ranked among top community colleges

BYLINE: Indian Country Today, Oneida, N.Y.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 481 words


Sept. 29--The story slugged IC-COMMNTY-COLLEGE-RANKING, filed by
McClatchy-Tribune Regional News for Sept. 23, was incorrectly dated.

Indian Country Today, Oneida, N.Y., published the story Sept. 29.

Please delete or kill the earlier version and use the corrected one below.

Sep. 29--CASS LAKE, Minn. - For years the success of Leech Lake Tribal College
has been a relatively well-kept secret. As LLTC's success stories continue to
grow and multiply, more people are beginning to take notice of what is happening
on its campus.

In Washington Monthly's recently released list of college rankings, Leech Lake
Tribal College was rated as the seventh-best community college in America, out
of more than 650 colleges that were part of the study. The rankings are based on
data collected as part of the Community College Survey of Student Engagement in
2007, 2008 and 2009. The data includes five categories: Active and collaborative
student learning; student effort; academic challenge; student-faculty
interaction; and support for learners.

LLTC scored second highest in the nation in active and collaborative learning
and in student-faculty interaction, confirming the value of the college's
holistic, student-centered approach to education.

"Leech Lake Tribal College is honored to be recognized as an outstanding
community college," said LLTC President Dr. Ginny Carney. "Our dedicated
faculty, strong academic standards, and commitment to service all work together
to create a life-changing college experience for our students."

In the Washington Monthly article, columnist Kevin Carey points out that
two-year colleges like LLTC generally receive far less funding per student than
do most four-year colleges, despite the fact that they serve many students who
need more academic and social assistance to succeed. Carey goes on to say that,
"The right leadership, organizational structure, and approach to teaching can
make a big and immediate difference, even when the colleges and students lack
all the resources they need."

The success of Leech Lake Tribal College has also led to growth in enrollment,
as students and graduates spread the word about their experience at the college.
According to LLTC registrar Veronica Veaux, more than 250 students are
registered for fall semester, and that number is expected to surpass 275 by the
time classes start. That number will represent the largest ever student body in
LLTC's 20-year history.

To see more of the Indian Country Today, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
www.indiancountry.com. Copyright (c) 2010, Indian Country Today, Oneida, N.Y.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail services@mctinfoservices.com, or
call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States, call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100929-IC-CORRECTION-COMMNTY-COLLEGE-RANKING-20100929

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IC


                      Copyright 2010 Indian Country Today


                              549 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                     September 13, 2002 Friday Home Edition
                              Correction Appended

Emory, Georgia Tech among top ranked;
Magazine's evaluation places UGA in second tier

BYLINE: REBECCA MCCARTHY

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Metro News; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 443 words


According to the closely watched annual rankings released today by U.S. News &
World Report magazine, Emory University, Georgia Tech and the University of
Georgia are among the country's best universities.

Among top 50 national universities, Emory is ranked 18th, as it has been for the
past four years, and is tied with Notre Dame. Georgia Tech dropped slightly to
38th from its previous place of 35th.

The University of Georgia falls in the second tier of national universities. The
77 schools in that group were not given individual rankings.

The magazine ranks schools in a multitude of categories. Among public
universities, Georgia Tech moved up from last year one spot, to ninth, where
it's tied with the University of Illinois in Champaign-Urbana. The University of
Georgia stayed tied at 18th with the University of Maryland in College Park.

Both Agnes Scott College and Spelman College are in the second tier of top
liberal arts colleges.

Among the best comprehensive colleges in the South offering bachelor's degrees,
Berry College in Rome ranks second, while LaGrange College is in a three-way tie
for eighth place.

Mercer University is ranked eighth among Southern universities awarding master's
degrees.

Emory, UGA, Agnes Scott, Mercer, LaGrange and Shorter College were all ranked as
"Great Schools at Great Prices," while Georgia State, Clayton State and Agnes
Scott were all noted for the level of diversity in their student bodies. Georgia
State is 33 percent African-American; Clayton State, 29 percent; and Agnes
Scott, 23 percent.

Princeton is ranked as the top national university, while Amherst is the top
liberal arts college on the magazine's list.

Sometimes controversial, often cheered by the highly rated schools, the U.S.
News & World Report rankings are based on factors that include academic
reputation, graduation and retention rate, student/faculty ratios, class size,
full-time faculty and alumni giving.

Tech President Wayne Clough said that, while too much emphasis shouldn't be
placed on the rankings, he does "think that trend lines mean something, and I'm
very pleased with our trend lines. I'm particularly proud of what our faculty
are able to accomplish within the constraints of our resources."

UGA President Michael Adams said the U.S. News & World Report ranking "is very
encouraging. We're attracting and educating some of the best students in the
country."

Emory interim Provost Howard Hunter said, "We continue to progress on many
fronts toward our long-term goals as a university, and we are glad to be
recognized as one of the nation's top teaching and research universities."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 14, 2002 Saturday

CORRECTION: A story in Friday's Metro section should have said that Georgia Tech
moved up in the U.S. News & World Report rankings for national universities from
41st last year to 38th this year.

                Copyright 2002 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              550 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  September 4, 1991, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Best college buys // Rice No. 1 based on costs, academics

BYLINE: Dennis Kelly

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 244 words


Rice University in Houston tops Money magazine's ''America's 10 Best College
Buys,'' a ranking based on costs vs. academic quality.

The second annual Money Guide to the Best College Buys in America, on sale
Monday, analyzed 1,011 four-year colleges. It compares costs, using out-of-
state tuition for state schools, with 12 measures of academic quality -
including student-faculty ratio, library resources and class rankings of
incoming freshmen.

Tuition and fees at Rice total $ 7,700. The rest of the top 10:

- New College of the University of South Florida in Sarasota, $ 6,690.

- Trenton (N.J.) State College, $ 4,750.

- University of Virginia in Charlottesville, $ 9,564.

- University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, $ 5,988.

- California Institute of Technology in Pasadena, $ 14,100.

- State University of New York at Binghamton, $ 6,043.

- University of Washington in Seattle, $ 6,100.

- University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, $ 6,580.

- University of Texas at Austin, $ 3,840.

Says Dave Merkowitz, spokesman for the American Council on Education: ''These
kinds of ranking exercises sell magazines'' but don't do much to help students
identify what colleges are best for them.

Eric Gelman, senior editor at Money, says colleges may complain about rankings,
but the ones that score highly are ''delighted.'' Besides, he says, the rankings
make a point: ''You don't have to pay a great deal to get a great education.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

See related story on 2B

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              551 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              May 5, 2015 Tuesday

New York: Clarkson University in Top 10 of New Brookings Institution College
Value Rankings

LENGTH: 362  words

DATELINE: Albany


Clarkson University, The State of New York has issued the following News
release:

Clarkson University is among the top 10 four-year colleges in the nation adding
the most value to student earnings potential, according to new value-added
college rankings released this week by The Brookings Institution, which look at
colleges' direct contributions to alumni salaries. The report says that getting
your degree from Clarkson University can increase your earnings by 42 percent,
putting the research university with under 4,000 students in the top 10 on
return on investment (ROI) nationwide. Brookings used data on a range of college
and student characteristics, and then calculated the difference between the
actual mid-career salary of alumni and an estimation of what a graduate from a
similar school would have earned given his/her characteristics. Clarkson scored
very high on Value of Alumni Skills, Curriculum Value and Average Student Aid
Provided. In rankings that look at the outcomes of graduates, Clarkson
University routinely makes the top 10 lists when it comes to measuring ROI and
attracts students from all walks of life and personal experiences. "Brooking's
Beyond College Rankings report, captured much of what has always been Clarkson's
historic value-added formula," said Clarkson President Tony Collins. "This high
ranking is due to three main Clarkson attributes: a personal team-oriented
learning environment for our students who bring grit and work ethic to
real-world problems; our robust corporate and alumni network; and the fact that
more than 95% of our full-time faculty are committed to both research &
teaching." This ranking by Brookings is one of many recent rankings lauding the
value and return on investment of a Clarkson education. Last fall, PayScale's
College Salary Report indicated that Clarkson graduates have some of the highest
salaries in the nation. Earlier this year, the Princeton Review also recognized
Clarkson in its book Colleges That Pay You Back: The 200 Best Value Colleges and
What It Takes to Get In.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              552 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                               May 4, 2015 Monday

New York: Clarkson University in Top 10 of New Brookings Institution College
Value Rankings

LENGTH: 362  words

DATELINE: Albany


Clarkson University, The State of New York has issued the following News
release:

Clarkson University is among the top 10 four-year colleges in the nation adding
the most value to student earnings potential, according to new value-added
college rankings released this week by The Brookings Institution, which look at
colleges' direct contributions to alumni salaries. The report says that getting
your degree from Clarkson University can increase your earnings by 42 percent,
putting the research university with under 4,000 students in the top 10 on
return on investment (ROI) nationwide. Brookings used data on a range of college
and student characteristics, and then calculated the difference between the
actual mid-career salary of alumni and an estimation of what a graduate from a
similar school would have earned given his/her characteristics. Clarkson scored
very high on Value of Alumni Skills, Curriculum Value and Average Student Aid
Provided. In rankings that look at the outcomes of graduates, Clarkson
University routinely makes the top 10 lists when it comes to measuring ROI and
attracts students from all walks of life and personal experiences. "Brooking's
Beyond College Rankings report, captured much of what has always been Clarkson's
historic value-added formula," said Clarkson President Tony Collins. "This high
ranking is due to three main Clarkson attributes: a personal team-oriented
learning environment for our students who bring grit and work ethic to
real-world problems; our robust corporate and alumni network; and the fact that
more than 95% of our full-time faculty are committed to both research &
teaching." This ranking by Brookings is one of many recent rankings lauding the
value and return on investment of a Clarkson education. Last fall, PayScale's
College Salary Report indicated that Clarkson graduates have some of the highest
salaries in the nation. Earlier this year, the Princeton Review also recognized
Clarkson in its book Colleges That Pay You Back: The 200 Best Value Colleges and
What It Takes to Get In.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              553 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                  The Leader-Telegram (Eau Claire, Wisconsin)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 21, 2009 Friday

UW-Eau Claire gets high marks in college report

BYLINE: The Leader-Telegram, Eau Claire, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 618 words


Aug. 21--UW-Eau Claire once again ranks among the nation's best public
universities, according to a report in U.S. News and World Report.

The 2009 edition of America's Best Colleges ranks UW-Eau Claire No. 6 among the
top regional public universities in the Midwest and 29th among all private and
public institutions in the Midwest.

The publication has ranked UW-Eau Claire among the top public institutions in
the Midwest every year since 1995. It was ranked No. 4 last year.

UW-La Crosse was listed third this year, compared with second last year.
UW-Stout in Menomonie and UW-River Falls were ranked 75th and 83rd,
respectively. UW-Stevens Point was listed 14th, and UW-Whitewater tied for 15th.

"We're pleased to again be recognized among the top public universities in the
Midwest," said UW-Eau Claire Chancellor Brian Levin-Stankevich. "It is
remarkable that UW-Eau Claire has been able to maintain such consistently high
rankings through many years -- and that is a direct result of the
student-centered approach to learning that is the lived mission of the
university."

U.S. News and World Report ranks UW-Eau Claire in what is known as the "Best
Universities-Masters" category. The category's Midwest region includes schools
in 12 states stretching from the Dakotas in the West to Missouri in the South
and Ohio in the East. Public and private universities included in this category
provide undergraduate- and master's-level programs and typically draw students
from surrounding states.

The regional rankings include 572 schools in four geographic areas -- North,
South, Midwest and West. The rankings reflect how schools compare in a set of 15
indicators that traditionally have been used by U.S. News and World Report to
compare colleges and universities across the nation. Those indicators include
things such as academic reputation, faculty-student ratio, class sizes,
freshmen's high school class ranking and ACT scores, graduation and freshman
retention rates, and alumni giving.

Levin-Stankevich said despite fiscal challenges posed by continued state budget
cuts, UW-Eau Claire continues to provide high-impact opportunities such as
student-faculty collaborative research, study abroad, civic engagement and
professional internships.

"Providing those opportunities enables us to continue to attract great students
who want to be part of the college experience that we offer," he said.
"Maintaining quality in light of shrinking state resources is our highest
priority. High rankings from U.S. News, The Princeton Review and Kiplinger's
Personal Finance magazine reflect the quality of a UW-Eau Claire education for
current students and add to the value of a UW-Eau Claire degree."

In response to UW-Stout's ranking, which is similar to last year, Provost Julie
Furst-Bowe said: "The rankings are based mostly on selectivity in student
admissions -- they have nothing to do with student outcomes, such as the
percentage of students who complete co-ops or the graduate placement rate."

The U.S. News and World Report rankings will be included in the magazine's
college guidebook, "America's Best Colleges." Many of the rankings will be
included in the Sept. 1 issue of the magazine, available at newsstands Aug. 24.
Many rankings also can be found on the U.S. News Web site.

To see more of The Leader-Telegram or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.leadertelegram.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Leader-Telegram, Eau
Claire, Wis. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090821-EW-UW-Eau-Claire-gets-high-marks-in-college-report-0821

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EW


                                 Copyright 2009


                              554 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 6, 2017 Wednesday

University of Mount Union Ranked by Washington Monthly

LENGTH: 334  words



Columbus: Mount Union College has issued the following news release:
 For the seventh consecutive year, the University of Mount Union was ranked
amongst the top baccalaureate colleges and universities in Washington Monthly's
2017 rankings.


Mount Union ranked 93rd in the nation in this category.
According to Washington Monthly's website, schools in this category are ranked
based upon their contribution to the public good in three broad categories:
social mobility (recruiting and graduating low-income students), research
(producing cutting-edge scholarship), and service (encouraging students to give
something back to their country).
Mount Union was also ranked as a "Best Bang for the Buck" school in the Midwest
region. The "Best Bang for the Buck" ranking is Washington Monthly's exclusive
list of schools that help non-wealthy students attain marketable degrees at
affordable prices.
"Washington Monthly's "Best Bang for the Buck" rankings shine a spotlight on our
commitments to affordability and to helping students achieve career success,"
said Mount Union President Dick Merriman. "We're pleased to see these
commitments recognized."
Along with being ranked in Washington Monthly, the University of Mount Union
holds numerous national rankings. The University has been included in Forbes'
2017 America's Best Colleges ranking and The Wall Street Journal/Times Higher
Education College Rankings. Mount Union has also been featured in the Princeton
Review's Guide to 361 Green Colleges for five consecutive years and has been
named a top college in the Midwest region for 26 consecutive years by U.S. News
and World Report. Other citations have been garnered by College Factual, Niche,
Tuition Hero, Educate to Career, STARS, Arbor Day Foundation and Sierra Club.
For more information on Mount Union's national rankings, visit
mountunion.edu/mount-union-national-rankings.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              555 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             October 4, 2013 Friday

Measure up, or secede

BYLINE: The Indian Express

LENGTH: 521  words


Indian universities have routinely failed global metrics. There's no point
quibbling with standards.

Another round of college rankings, another set of injured explanations in India.
After the QS rankings earlier this month showed that no Indian university
figured in the top 200, the Times Higher Education (THE) World Rankings have
confirmed the obvious about Indian colleges. The IITs have continued to slide,
the big metropolitan universities don't even figure in the top 400, and the
surprise entrance of Panjab University in the 226-250 bracket does not mitigate
the disaster. This survey uses 13 separate performance indicators to reflect a
university's strengths in five areas - teaching, research, citation, industry
income and international outlook.

There is no consensus among college ranking systems on criteria, and their
methods don't even overlap much. US News and World Report, for instance, looks
at admission rates, test scores, peer assessments and student teacher
evaluations. The THE rankings stress faculty research, professionally successful
alumni, etc. Academic Ranking of World Universities looks at class size,
teacher-student ratios, spending per student and instructor educational
attainment. But any way you cut it, India's colleges are irrelevant. The
education establishment, led by the HRD ministry, has complained about the
rankings themselves, saying that our institutions do not pitch themselves to
global surveys, that their context and aims should not be compared to wealthy
research universities in the US, which rule the rankings. But the fact remains
that these are the measures the world uses to compare universities, and other
countries are clambering ahead, investing serious resources in higher education.
China has registered impressive improvements, and Singapore recently broke into
the ranks of top universities, pouring money into their campuses, recruiting
faculty. The Nanyang Technological University has moved up 98 spots in the last
three years, while the National University of Singapore is now in 26th place.

Meanwhile in India, despite the "big bang" that UPA 2 promised, higher education
continues to moulder. Public universities are shackled by faculty issues and the
lack of autonomy in financial, administrative and academic matters, private
universities have proliferated but have patchy standards. Elite students exit
the system altogether, paying foreign universities enormous fees. And yet, India
is reluctant to acknowledge the magnitude of the problem. When the programme for
International Student Assessment (PISA) put India in the 71st position, out of
73, the test was declared faulty. But universities can't have it both ways,
seeking a place in the global education marketplace, but claiming loftier goals
when they don't measure up. The IITs, for instance, are only too happy to talk
up their hypercompetitive entrance exam, or cite the international press
describing them as "Harvard, MIT and Princeton rolled into one". But when the
numbers roll in, they are rejected as alien standards. They should either pull
out of the race, or compete with the best.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              556 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            August 24, 2017 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

They're a starting point, say admissions officials, who have mixed feelings

BYLINE: Chad Sokol and Eli Francovich The Spokesman-Review

SECTION: A; Pg. 001

LENGTH: 1028 words


Peter Nelson knew he wanted to attend college somewhere near the West Coast, so
he wouldn't be too far from his hometown in Hawaii.

Scouring the internet for information, Nelson referenced popular ranking systems
to create a short list of universities to apply to. But he was wary of a fact
that many students overlook: Rankings don't tell the whole story about any
school, and they're often based on arbitrary, biased or unreliable factors.

"If people rely on the numbers, there's more of a chance to get misled," said
Nelson, who's now a senior at Gonzaga University, a school he chose for its
Jesuit roots.

In the latest rankings by Forbes, Gonzaga came in at No. 161 among 650
universities. Money Magazine was less kind, placing Gonzaga at No. 241 among 711
schools.

Two other magazines break down their rankings by region. U.S. News & World
Report ranked Gonzaga No. 4 in the western United States. Washington Monthly
ranked it No. 69.

Research suggests these numbers have a significant impact on where students
apply to college, regardless of whether they fully understand what each ranking
system measures. Money magazine, for example, considers how much students make
during their first years after graduation. U.S. News factors in a school's
reputation.

"I think we live in a culture that is very rankings-based," said Julie McCulloh,
Gonzaga's dean of admission. "We use Consumer Reports when we want to buy cars
or major appliances or whatever."

But a college education is a bigger and likely more expensive investment than a
car or a vacuum cleaner.

Educators have mixed feelings about college rankings. While some schools -
Gonzaga included - are quick to include high scores in brochures and news
releases, administrators admit the systems don't account for many unique and
less tangible factors.

"Each family, each student has a unique set of needs, and the needs of the
student might be better met by a school that's not in a top ranking," McCulloh
said.

McCulloh said Gonzaga is similar in many ways to Loyola Marymount University in
Los Angeles, but often falls behind Loyola in rankings that rely heavily on
acceptance rates. Loyola is about the same size as Gonzaga but located in a more
densely populated city, so naturally it turns away more applicants, she said.

"You can't really pull the story of the school from their acceptance rate," she
said.

On a similar note, Dan Bernardo, the provost at Washington State University,
said ranking systems tend to disadvantage large public institutions that aim for
access and affordability.

"There's always a lot of debate about their value and their credibility, because
they do try to synthesize a lot of information into essentially a single
number," Bernardo said. "They tend to tilt toward the private schools because
essentially they're using private school criteria. I often tell people around
here: We're not Harvard, and we're not trying to measure ourselves using the
same criteria as Harvard."

WSU is, however, in the midst of its "Drive to 25" campaign, which aims to
secure a spot among the nation's top 25 research universities. Bernardo said the
school is using more "objective" criteria than the ones often used by magazines,
such as research expenditures and the number of doctoral degrees granted.

U.S. News, the most prominent ranking system, bases 22.5 percent of its formula
on colleges' reputations, in part by asking administrators at other schools for
their opinions.

In a report last year, NPR explained a glaring flaw in that methodology: "How
good would you say that Princeton's undergraduate business program is? That's a
trick question: There is no such program. Yet when other college presidents were
asked this question, they gave the nonexistent program top marks. That's known
as the 'halo effect.' "

McCulloh said she's asked to rate other schools in an annual survey and
routinely ticks the box labeled "Do not know."

"It's a heavy weight to say this school is excellent or mediocre or whatever,"
she said. "How can I know? I don't have the ability to tell you how good these
schools are."

Bernardo also took issue with rankings that rely on some measures of student
performance, such as test scores.

"We don't really ascribe to the theory that the SAT is a good measure of a
student's quality," he said. "Our analysis shows that high school grade-point
average is a much better predictor of success."

In a study that's slated for publication in the Journal of Economic Behavior and
Organization, Daniel Hickman, an economics professor at the University of Idaho,
scoured 10 years' worth of data on college applications and compared it to the
U.S. News rankings.

Hickman and his collaborators at Marquette University found that applications at
any given school dropped by up to 6 percent after the school fell out of U.S.
News' top 50 rankings. That happens to be how many rankings were included in the
first page of the magazine's print editions.

"It makes a big difference when it crosses that threshold," Hickman said.
"People perceive it differently."

Consumers might respond similarly, he said, when considering buying a car that's
just over the 100,000-mile mark. It's the same reason a grocery store item might
sell for $11.99 rather than $12.

"We always talk about people being well-informed and making rational decisions,"
Hickman said. But, "people have to find ways to make decisions with limited
information."

Greg Orwig, Whitworth University's vice president for admission and financial
aid, said he urges students to use college rankings to help narrow their
options, not as a tool to make a final decision. He said students should use
more customizable options like college search tools that allow students to
adjust specific factors.

One such option is the U.S. Department of Education's College Scorecard website.

Neil Woolf,  associate vice president for enrollment management at Eastern
Washington University, agreed that rankings should be used only to "start a
discussion."

"As long as you know what the ranking is measuring, it's a great thing," he
said. "More information is good."

Contact the writer:

(509) 459-5047

chadso@spokesman.com

rankings

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2017 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                              557 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 17, 2017 Friday

Nyack College In Top 20 Schools for Environment on 2018 Wall Street
Journal/Times Higher Education U.S. College Rankings

LENGTH: 212  words



New York: Nyack college has issued the following news release:
The second edition of the Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education U.S.
College Rankings has been released. Editorial Director Phil Baty writes in a
cover letter accompanying the publication, "Rather than rewarding colleges for
educating "better" students, we created a ranking that rewards colleges for
educating students better."
Again Nyack College is on the 2018 list of top 20 colleges and universities for
environment and has moved from the #17 spot, shared with five other institutions
in 2017, to #13 shared with three other institutions. Nyack has also moved up
from the 800+ level ranking to the 600 level.


The four "pillars" ranked are resources, engagement, outcomes and environment.
In the environment category, a variety of measures of diversity in the student
and faculty population are weighed. Among those factors examined at each
institution are ethnic diversity, economic diversity (the proportion of students
who receive Pell Grants), the proportion of students who are first generation
degree earners and the proportion of international students at the institution.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              558 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          November 15, 2017 Wednesday

Nyack College In Top 20 Schools for Environment on 2018 Wall Street
Journal/Times Higher Education U.S. College Rankings

LENGTH: 212  words



New York: Nyack college has issued the following news release:
The second edition of the Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education U.S.
College Rankings has been released. Editorial Director Phil Baty writes in a
cover letter accompanying the publication, "Rather than rewarding colleges for
educating "better" students, we created a ranking that rewards colleges for
educating students better."
Again Nyack College is on the 2018 list of top 20 colleges and universities for
environment and has moved from the #17 spot, shared with five other institutions
in 2017, to #13 shared with three other institutions. Nyack has also moved up
from the 800+ level ranking to the 600 level.


The four "pillars" ranked are resources, engagement, outcomes and environment.
In the environment category, a variety of measures of diversity in the student
and faculty population are weighed. Among those factors examined at each
institution are ethnic diversity, economic diversity (the proportion of students
who receive Pell Grants), the proportion of students who are first generation
degree earners and the proportion of international students at the institution.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              559 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 12, 2017 Tuesday

OBU Earns Top Rankings from U.S. News & World Report

LENGTH: 645  words



Oklahoma City: Oklahoma Baptist University has issued the following news
release:
For the 24th consecutive year, U.S. New and World Report named OBU as Oklahoma's
highest ranked college on the "Best Regional Colleges of the West" list. OBU
also ranked first on the "Least Debt" for graduating students list for regional
colleges of the West and came in at number eight on the "Great Schools, Great
Prices" list for Western universities. OBU is the only Oklahoma college listed
on the "A-Plus Schools for B Students" list for regional colleges, ranking
second in the West.


The exclusive rankings, which include more than 1,400 schools nationwide, were
released Sept. 12. They will also appear in the 2018 edition of the "Best
Colleges 2018" guidebook, available online now and on newsstands Oct. 10.
OBU President Dr. David Wesley Whitlock is pleased to once again receive this
recognition.
"Oklahoma Baptist University is committed to the highest levels of excellence in
academic achievement," Whitlock said. "The U.S. News and World Report rankings
represent and validate the outstanding performance and achievements of OBU's
marvelous faculty, staff and students. We are pleased to see that our
affordability is also recognized, with OBU ranked first for Western colleges for
our students having the least debt upon graduation. This is a result of the
numerous scholarship and financial aid opportunities that help make an OBU
degree so affordable."
OBU is ranked third on the list of "Best Colleges of the West." This is the 26th
consecutive year OBU has been ranked in the top 10. According to the report, the
colleges listed as "Best Regional Colleges" focus mostly on the undergraduate
experience and offer a broad range of programs in the liberal arts, as well as
in fields such as business, nursing and education.
Dr. Stan Norman, provost and executive vice president for campus life, is
pleased to see the efforts of the OBU community being acknowledged.
"The hard work and dedication of the OBU community is apparent in the release of
these rankings," Norman said. "The University is committed to the highest level
of academic excellence and strives to transform the lives of students as they
pursue an education on Bison Hill. We appreciate the tireless efforts of our
faculty, staff and students, efforts that directly contribute to these rankings.
We are committed to offering an affordable, world-class education at OBU, one
that shapes the worldview of our students while challenging them to grow
academically, spiritually and socially."
OBU ranked first on the "Regional Colleges of the West" list for the "Least
Debt" rankings, underscoring the affordability and value of an education at OBU.
This list was calculated according to the average debt loads for the graduating
class of 2016. According to the report, only 58 percent of OBU students
graduated with any student debt. One major factor in OBU's low student debt
burden and affordability is that every new freshman receives a guaranteed
minimum $5,000 scholarship per year.
OBU placed eighth on the "Great Schools, Great Prices" list for Western
universities, and was the only university in Oklahoma to make the top 10. The
calculations for the "Great Schools, Great Prices" rankings take into account a
school's academic quality, based on its U.S. News "Best Colleges" ranking, and
the 2016-17 net cost of attendance for a student who receives the average level
of need-based financial aid. The higher the quality of the program and the lower
the cost, the better the deal. Only schools in or near the top half of their
U.S. News ranking categories are included because U.S. News considers the most
significant values to be among colleges that perform well academically.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              560 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             April 30, 2012 Monday

Claremont McKenna College remains at No. 9 on college rankings despite
controversy

BYLINE: By Wes Woods II Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 288 words


CLAREMONT - A recent testing scandal apparently has had little impact on
Claremont McKenna College's placement in U.S. News & World Report's 2012 Best
Colleges rankings.

In the most recent rankings, CMC is No. 9 in the nation.

The college admitted in late January that for the past six years it submitted
some exaggerated SAT scores to publications such as U.S. News & World Report,
which uses the information to rank colleges and universities.

Officials said a since-resigned official had distributed the exaggerated SAT
scores.

"Our calculation shows that based on the data now being reported by Claremont
McKenna as correct, Claremont McKenna College's ranking will not change," wrote
columnist Bob Morse in his blog on the website of U.S. News & World Report.

CMC's average critical reading and math SAT score for the fall 2010 entering
class was actually 1,385, compared with the originally reported score of 1,410,
according to Brian Kelly, the publication's editor and chief content officer.

The correct percent of high school students graduating in the top 10 percent of
their graduating classes was 72 percent, compared with the original reported
figure of 85 percent.

A college spokesman said he was happy with the latest development.

"While we are pleased that U.S. News will not change our ranking, Claremont
McKenna College continues to focus on our academic mission and on fulfilling our
obligation to integrity and responsible leadership," CMC spokesman Max Benavidez
said.

Meanwhile, Kiplinger's Best Values in Private Colleges dropped the college from
its 2011-12 best values in liberal arts colleges list after the reporting
scandal.

The college had been ranked 18th by Kiplinger's.

wes.woods@inlandnewspapers.com 909-483-8549

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2012 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              561 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 13, 2010 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Another take on school rankings

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 484 words


An excerpt from  Daniel DeVise's  blog on the business behind higher education.

Washington Monthly, a magazine with unusually robust higher education coverage,
has released its ranking of colleges and universities. The magazine is a
relatively new entrant to the rankings field, which has become crowded in recent
years.

The trick is to offer something different from U.S. News & World Report, whose
rankings stress reputation, graduation rates, test scores and other measures
that produce a fairly predictable list of well-endowed and prestigious
universities. At its genesis in the 1980s, a simple formula that yielded a
ranking with Harvard, Princeton and Yale at the top made all the sense in the
world. Three decades later, the approach is a magnet for criticism: The rankings
are seen by some as telling college customers something they already know.

Washington Monthly rates and ranks colleges "based on their contribution to the
public good" and in three categories: "Social Mobility (recruiting and
graduating low-income students), Research (producing cutting-edge scholarship
and PhDs) and Service (encouraging students to give something back)."

The ranking yields unusual results. Public universities fare well because of
their strength in research and fairly high marks for serving low-income
students. Three University of California campuses, in San Diego, Berkeley and
Los Angeles, rank 1-2-3 among national universities by the Washington Monthly
formula. Harvard ranks ninth, Yale 33rd.

The College of William and Mary ranks 10th on that list, partly because of its
success producing Peace Corps volunteers. Georgetown ranks 19th.

Morehouse College, a historically black institution in Georgia, trumps Bryn Mawr
and Swarthmore to top the Washington Monthly list of liberal arts colleges
because of the school's tremendous success in graduating low-income students.
About two-thirds of Morehouse students receive Pell grants because of low-income
backgrounds, and about two-thirds of students graduate -- a high rate for a
school with many disadvantaged students.

Mary Baldwin College in Virginia and Loyola University Maryland make the top 10
of a third Washington Monthly list devoted to master's-level institutions.

A reader responds

Rankings are helpful in giving applicants a sense of where colleges fit,
compared to one another, with respect to standardized test scores, admission
rates, reputation and graduation rates; some even rank party schools, beautiful
campuses and accessible professors. But for high school students and parents to
nitpick between a college ranked No. 32 and, say, No. 42, on any list is silly
at best -- and plain stupid at worst. Applicants need to visit colleges and get
a feel for campuses, students and surroundings. They should talk to friends or
ask their school counselors for advice. And then create their own rank of
colleges that are best for them.

-- mzawel

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              562 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 26, 2013 Monday

Bryn Mawr Makes Forbes' Ranking of America's Top Colleges and Universities

LENGTH: 289  words

DATELINE: Bryn Mawr


Bryn Mawr College has issued the following news release:

Bryn Mawr College has come in at #40 on Forbes' 2013 ranking of America's top
Colleges. The ranking differs from many others in that it doesn't differentiate
between colleges and universities. Traditional small liberal arts colleges fare
well but are in the minority among the top 50. Among women's colleges, Bryn Mawr
is joined only by Wellesley in the top 50.

From Forbes:
"The rapidly changing landscape in higher education is the theme of this year's
Top Colleges. For the sixth year, FORBES has partnered exclusively with the
Washington, D.C.-based Center for College Affordability and Productivity (CCAP).
What sets our calculation of 650 colleges and universities apart from other
rankings is our firm belief in "output" over "input." We're not all that
interested in what gets a student into college, like our peers who focus heavily
on selectivity metrics such as high school class rank and SAT scores. Our sights
are set directly on ROI: What are students getting out of college. (See CCAP's
full methodology here.)

We look at factors that directly concern today's incoming students (and their
families) who will be footing a bill which has multiplied into the six figures:
Will my classes be interesting? Is it likely I will graduate in four years? Will
I incur a ton of debt getting my degree? And once I get out of school, will I
get a good job and be a leader in my chosen profession? We pointedly ignore any
metrics that would encourage schools to engage in wasteful spending."

This year, Forbes also graded colleges and universities on their financial
health and Bryn Mawr was among the schools to earn an A+.

For more information please visit: http://www.brynmawr.edu.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              563 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                            October 2, 2012 Tuesday

The college rankings racket

BYLINE: JOE NOCERA

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 817 words

ABSTRACT

The U.S. News & World Report's annual list promotes status at the expense of
affordable education.

FULL TEXT

The U.S. News & World Report's annual college rankings came out earlier this
month and - knock me over with a feather! - Harvard and Princeton were tied for
first.

Followed by Yale.

Followed by Columbia.

It's not that these aren't great universities. But c'mon. Can you really say
with any precision that Princeton is ''better'' than Columbia? That the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (No. 6) is better than the California
Institute of Technology (No. 10)? That Tufts (No. 28) is better than Brandeis
(No. 33)?

Of course not. U.S. News likes to claim that it uses rigorous methodology, but,
honestly, it's just a list put together by magazine editors. The whole exercise
is a little silly. Or rather, it would be if it weren't so pernicious.

Magazines compile lists because people like to read them. With U.S. News having
folded its print edition two years ago, its rankings - not just of colleges, but
law schools, graduate schools and even high schools - are probably what keep the
enterprise alive. People care enough about its rankings to pay $34.95 to seek
out the details on the U.S. News Web site.

And they imbue these rankings with an authority that is largely unjustified.
Universities that want to game the rankings can easily do so. U.S. News cares a
lot about how much money a school raises and how much it spends: on faculty; on
small classes; on facilities; and so on. It cares about how selective the
admissions process is.

So universities that once served populations that were different from the
Harvard or Yale student body now go after the same elite high school students
with the highest SAT scores. And schools know that, if they want to get a better
ranking, they need to spend money like mad - even though they will have to
increase tuition that is already backbreaking. ''If you figure out how to do the
same service for less money, your U.S. News ranking will go down,'' says Kevin
Carey, the director of education policy at the New America Foundation, a
nonpartisan research group. The rankings encourage trends that ill-serve the
country.

There is something else, too. The rankings exacerbate the status anxiety that
afflicts so many high school students. The single-minded goal of too many high
school students - pushed by parents, guidance counselors and society itself - is
to get into a ''good'' school. Those who don't land a prestigious admission feel
like failures. Those who do but lack the means often wind up taking on onerous
debt - a burden that can last a lifetime. And U.S. News has largely become the
measure by which a good school is defined. ''U.S. News didn't invent the social
dynamic,'' says Carey. ''What it did was very accurately empiricize them.''

As it happens, Carey has been working for a number of years with The Washington
Monthly to compile a different kind of college ranking. (I was an editor at The
Monthly in the late 1970s.) Instead of trying to serve as a gauge of status, The
Monthly's rankings attempt to gauge more useful measures: social mobility, for
instance, or ''bang for the buck.'' Its top-ranked national universities this
year are the University of California-San Diego and Texas A&M. Neither is ranked
in the top 30 by U.S. News. All they do is graduate a higher percentage of
students than you would expect given their populations - at a reasonable price.

Yes, The Washington Monthly's rankings are yet another list compiled by magazine
editors, inevitably flawed. But the point the magazine is trying to make is that
this is the model of higher education we should be encouraging. Can you really
disagree? I have no doubt that you can obtain a very good education at Texas
A&M. As you surely can at many other institutions that don't crack the top of
the U.S. News rankings.

Not long ago, I saw an article written by a recent graduate of Stuyvesant High.
Stuyvesant, widely considered the most prestigious public high school in New
York, has just been through a cheating scandal - one driven in no small part by
the imperative of its students to get into a prestigious college.

The author, who was not part of the cheating scandal, had succeeded in getting
into a ''Desirable University,'' as she put it, but her parents had been unable
to afford the tuition. She wound up, deeply embittered, at a state school.
Whenever people would bring up the subject of college, she wrote, she would
''mutter something about not wanting to talk about it.'' Although she claimed to
have made her peace with her education, she ended her article by vowing to save
enough so that her children wouldn't have to suffer the same fate.

How sad. Maybe someday she'll understand that where you go to college matters
far less than what you put into college. Maybe someday the readers of the U.S.
News rankings will understand that as well.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              564 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 27, 2016 Thursday

Tennessee: College Choice ranks MTSU among safest large universities in U.S.

LENGTH: 343 words

DATELINE: New York



 Nashville: City of Murfreesboro, The state of Tennessee has issued the
following news release:



 Middle Tennessee State University is ranked among the Top 50 safest large
universities in the nation, according to the website collegechoice.net.





 According to College Choice, which produces a variety of rankings about
colleges and universities for prospective students and their families, the data
used to develop the campus safety ranking come the U.S. Department of Education,
as well as from the university and colleges' websites, U.S. News & World Report,
and The National Center for Education Statistics.



 College Choice defined large colleges and universities as those with 15,000 or
more students. See the full rankings list at http://www.collegechoice.net/
rankings/safest-large-universities/.



 The website states that it used each respective school's general crime report
as well as the number of documented hate crimes, violence against women, arrests
made, fire incidences, and discipline enforced activities for each in the last
three years. Schools were given a safety grade based on those reports, with
MTSU's grade ranking it 40th on the list.



 "From providing RAD self-defense training to auto assistance, student-led
patrol, and victim assistance, the safety crew at Middle Tennessee State
University (MTSU) works closely with all components of campus life to instill
and insure a safe and healthful space," the website states. "Their core values
-- honesty and integrity, respect for diversity, engagement in the community,
and commitment to nonviolence -- have led to MTSU's recognition as one of the
safest large schools in the country."



 Among its numerous safety initiatives, MTSU has a full-time police force of 44
officers that includes a bicycle patrol and community policing; numerous
surveillance cameras positioned throughout campus; and a critical notification
system to alert the campus community during emergencies.



 In case of any query regarding thais article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              565 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 26, 2016 Wednesday

Tennessee: College Choice ranks MTSU among safest large universities in U.S.

LENGTH: 343 words

DATELINE: New York



 Nashville: City of Murfreesboro, The state of Tennessee has issued the
following news release:



 Middle Tennessee State University is ranked among the Top 50 safest large
universities in the nation, according to the website collegechoice.net.





 According to College Choice, which produces a variety of rankings about
colleges and universities for prospective students and their families, the data
used to develop the campus safety ranking come the U.S. Department of Education,
as well as from the university and colleges' websites, U.S. News & World Report,
and The National Center for Education Statistics.



 College Choice defined large colleges and universities as those with 15,000 or
more students. See the full rankings list at http://www.collegechoice.net/
rankings/safest-large-universities/.



 The website states that it used each respective school's general crime report
as well as the number of documented hate crimes, violence against women, arrests
made, fire incidences, and discipline enforced activities for each in the last
three years. Schools were given a safety grade based on those reports, with
MTSU's grade ranking it 40th on the list.



 "From providing RAD self-defense training to auto assistance, student-led
patrol, and victim assistance, the safety crew at Middle Tennessee State
University (MTSU) works closely with all components of campus life to instill
and insure a safe and healthful space," the website states. "Their core values
-- honesty and integrity, respect for diversity, engagement in the community,
and commitment to nonviolence -- have led to MTSU's recognition as one of the
safest large schools in the country."



 Among its numerous safety initiatives, MTSU has a full-time police force of 44
officers that includes a bicycle patrol and community policing; numerous
surveillance cameras positioned throughout campus; and a critical notification
system to alert the campus community during emergencies.



 In case of any query regarding thais article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              566 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 25, 2016 Tuesday

Tennessee: College Choice ranks MTSU among safest large universities in U.S.

LENGTH: 343 words

DATELINE: New York



 Nashville: City of Murfreesboro, The state of Tennessee has issued the
following news release:



 Middle Tennessee State University is ranked among the Top 50 safest large
universities in the nation, according to the website collegechoice.net.





 According to College Choice, which produces a variety of rankings about
colleges and universities for prospective students and their families, the data
used to develop the campus safety ranking come the U.S. Department of Education,
as well as from the university and colleges' websites, U.S. News & World Report,
and The National Center for Education Statistics.



 College Choice defined large colleges and universities as those with 15,000 or
more students. See the full rankings list at http://www.collegechoice.net/
rankings/safest-large-universities/.



 The website states that it used each respective school's general crime report
as well as the number of documented hate crimes, violence against women, arrests
made, fire incidences, and discipline enforced activities for each in the last
three years. Schools were given a safety grade based on those reports, with
MTSU's grade ranking it 40th on the list.



 "From providing RAD self-defense training to auto assistance, student-led
patrol, and victim assistance, the safety crew at Middle Tennessee State
University (MTSU) works closely with all components of campus life to instill
and insure a safe and healthful space," the website states. "Their core values
-- honesty and integrity, respect for diversity, engagement in the community,
and commitment to nonviolence -- have led to MTSU's recognition as one of the
safest large schools in the country."



 Among its numerous safety initiatives, MTSU has a full-time police force of 44
officers that includes a bicycle patrol and community policing; numerous
surveillance cameras positioned throughout campus; and a critical notification
system to alert the campus community during emergencies.



 In case of any query regarding thais article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              567 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 25, 2016 Tuesday

Tennessee: College Choice ranks MTSU among safest large universities in U.S.

LENGTH: 343 words

DATELINE: New York



 Nashville: City of Murfreesboro, The state of Tennessee has issued the
following news release:



 Middle Tennessee State University is ranked among the Top 50 safest large
universities in the nation, according to the website collegechoice.net.





 According to College Choice, which produces a variety of rankings about
colleges and universities for prospective students and their families, the data
used to develop the campus safety ranking come the U.S. Department of Education,
as well as from the university and colleges' websites, U.S. News & World Report,
and The National Center for Education Statistics.



 College Choice defined large colleges and universities as those with 15,000 or
more students. See the full rankings list at http://www.collegechoice.net/
rankings/safest-large-universities/.



 The website states that it used each respective school's general crime report
as well as the number of documented hate crimes, violence against women, arrests
made, fire incidences, and discipline enforced activities for each in the last
three years. Schools were given a safety grade based on those reports, with
MTSU's grade ranking it 40th on the list.



 "From providing RAD self-defense training to auto assistance, student-led
patrol, and victim assistance, the safety crew at Middle Tennessee State
University (MTSU) works closely with all components of campus life to instill
and insure a safe and healthful space," the website states. "Their core values
-- honesty and integrity, respect for diversity, engagement in the community,
and commitment to nonviolence -- have led to MTSU's recognition as one of the
safest large schools in the country."



 Among its numerous safety initiatives, MTSU has a full-time police force of 44
officers that includes a bicycle patrol and community policing; numerous
surveillance cameras positioned throughout campus; and a critical notification
system to alert the campus community during emergencies.



 In case of any query regarding thais article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              568 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                           August 17, 2006, Thursday

National magazine praises state universities, colleges

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P2A

LENGTH: 476 words


Three West Virginia schools are praised in a national magazine this month for
their contributions to society rather than their academic success.

West Virginia University, West Virginia Wesleyan and Bethany College all rank
among 245 universities and 245 liberal-arts schools whose graduates promote
research and social change, according to the September issue of Washington
Monthly.

WVU landed at 139 among national universities, while Bethany and Wesleyan were
102 and 166, respectively.

The magazine's ranking sets out to demystify the traditional rankings based on
academics that annually appear in publications like U.S. News & World Report,
its editors said.

In this case, the magazine's editors looked at social mobility of graduates, or
whether poorer students became richer, their ability to foster scientific and
humanistic research and their promotion of an ethic of service to the country.

"It's a guide for all Americans who are concerned about our institutions of
higher learning," they wrote. "Are our colleges making good use of our tax
dollars? Are they producing graduates who can keep our nation competitive in a
changing world? Are they, in short, doing well by doing good?"

Typical ranking systems place schools such as Harvard in top slots, whereas this
ranking has the Ivy League school at 28. Massachusetts Institute of Technology
topped the list.

The magazine primarily covers politics and government, but its leaders chose to
dabble in ranking the schools because they wanted to prove that academic
rankings aren't the only indicator of success. In the past, they've also ranked
schools based on national service.

"When colleges are doing what they should, they benefit all of us," they wrote
in a description of the rankings. "They undertake vital research that drives our
economy. They help Americans who are poor to become Americans who will prosper.
And they shape the thoughts and ethics of the young Americans who will soon be
leading the country."

The magazine's ranking has gotten mixed results from people associated with
higher education. Bloggers on The Chronicle of Higher Education called the
rankings laughable.

Rankings outlining how well colleges perform academically also are expected to
be released next month in U.S. News.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Charleston Newspapers


                              569 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                             August 24, 2007 Friday

Celebrate good rankings but don't give too much weight

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 469 words


<k20f"BodoniStd">Americans like lists, whether they are David Letterman's "Top
Ten" list, the American Film Institute's greatest movies or U.S. News and World
Report's annual rankings of colleges and universities.

The problem with "best" and "worst" lists is that they seldom satisfy anyone,
even those who rank high. Of course, the arguments such lists ignite is part of
their attraction. But when the rankings are given too much weight, that can
spell trouble.

We are pleased to see Eureka College move up among the best Midwest
baccalaureate colleges - ranking 28th this year, rather than 42nd. Such rankings
can let hidden gems gain more attention. Lincoln College at Normal made its
first appearance on the U.S. News list, placed in the fourth tier of the same
category.

Illinois State University is holding its own among the third tier of nationally
ranked universities and Illinois Wesleyan University moved up a few spots among
the second tier of liberal arts colleges.

However, we share the concern of IWU President Dick Wilson that too much
emphasis is placed on peer reviews. Counting as 25 percent of the overall score,
the peer review is based on a poll of college presidents in each category
judging schools about which they may know very little.

People complain about the weight given to such things as the test scores of the
incoming freshman class and the percentage of applicants who are turned away,
claiming the quest to look good in the rankings could harm the accessibility of
education for students who don't meet the desired profile.

At least those are objective measurements, unlike the peer assessment that IWU's
Wilson rightly calls a "popularity poll."

The problem is perpetuated by the ranking system. Those who are ranked highly
one year may be perceived as being "better" and therefore score more highly in
subsequent year. It is a self-fulfilling prophecy that makes it difficult for
other institutions to crack the higher tier.

IWU is among more than 60 schools that intend to stop taking part in the
peer-assessment survey.

The National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities plans to put
together an online data system to provide parents and prospective students with
information to make their own comparisons.

Readily available and easily understood information can be helpful in selecting
a college. And rankings, such as those put together by U.S. News can be a
starting point.

But just as Wilson says U.S. News should give less weight to peer reviews,
prospective students should balance information from a variety of sources, not
just a single ranking by a national publication.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 The Pantagraph


                              570 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 10, 2004, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY ESPN Top 25 coaches' poll

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 824 words

Poll taken before Tuesday's games.

1. Duke (27-3)

Points: 994 (34 first-place votes). Previous ranking: 2. Regular season
complete. Last week: Beat Wake Forest 77-59, beat Maryland 70-63, beat then-No.
10 North Carolina 63-47.

2. Texas (26-3)

Points: 955 (5). Previous ranking: 4. Next: Tonight vs. Iowa State in Big 12
tournament. Last week: Beat then-No. 19 Oklahoma 57-54.


3. Tennessee (26-3)

Points: 896. Previous ranking: 1. Regular season complete. Last week: Beat
Mississippi State 67-57, lost to then-No. 16 Georgia 68-66 OT.

4. Purdue (27-3)

Points: 862. Previous ranking: 7. Regular season complete. Last week: Beat
Michigan 78-55, beat Ohio State 67-61, beat then-No. 5 Penn State 59-58.

5. Connecticut (25-4)

Points: 838. Previous ranking: 3. Regular season complete. Last week: Beat
Virginia Tech 48-34, lost to then-No. 25 Boston College 73-70.

6. Louisiana Tech (24-2)

Points: 804 (1). Previous ranking: 6. Next: Today vs. Boise State in WAC
tournament. Last week: Beat Rice 82-70, beat Tulsa 81-57.

7. Penn State (25-5)

Points: 777. Previous ranking: 5. Regular season complete. Last week: Beat
Indiana 79-66, beat then-No. 24 Michigan State 58-54, lost to then-No. 7 Purdue
59-58.

8. Kansas State (23-4)

Points: 724. Previous ranking: 8. Next: Tonight vs. Missouri in Big 12
tournament. Last week: Beat No. 9 Texas Tech 85-73.

9. Texas Tech (24-6)

Points: 627. Previous ranking: 9. Next: Today vs. No. 15 Baylor in Big 12
tournament. Last week: Lost to No. 8 Kansas State 85-73.

10. Stanford (24-6)

Points: 598. Previous ranking: 11. Regular season complete. Last week: Beat
California 80-65, beat UCLA 70-66, beat Arizona 51-46.

11. North Carolina (24-6)

Points: 588. Previous ranking: 10. Regular season complete. Last week: Beat
Virginia 64-45, beat North Carolina State 75-64, lost to then-No. 2 Duke 63-47.

12. Houston (27-3)

Points: 568. Previous ranking: 12. Regular season complete. Last week: Beat
Cincinnati 84-67, beat Marquette 67-59, beat then-No. 15 TCU 86-75.

13. Colorado (22-6)

Points: 519. Previous ranking: 13. Next: Tonight vs. No. 20 Oklahoma in Big 12
tournament. Last week: Beat Nebraska 63-60.

14. Georgia (22-9)

Points: 409. Previous ranking: 16. Regular season complete. Last week: Beat
South Carolina 73-42, beat Florida 76-72, beat then-No. 1 Tennessee 68-66 OT,
lost to then-unranked Vanderbilt 62-56.

15. Baylor (23-7)

Points: 347. Previous ranking: 18. Tuesday's result: Beat Kansas 86-71. Next:
Today vs. No. 9 Texas Tech in Big 12 tournament. Last week: Beat Oklahoma State
70-60.

16. LSU (23-7)

Points: 342. Previous ranking: 14. Regular season complete. Last week: Beat
Mississippi 79-66, lost to then-unranked Vanderbilt 78-66.

17. TCU (24-6)

Points: 338. Previous ranking: 15. Regular season complete. Last week: Beat
Charlotte 89-73, beat Louisville 69-59, lost to No. 12 Houston 86-75.

18. Vanderbilt (24-7)

Points: 271. Previous ranking: Not ranked. Regular season complete. Last week:
Beat then-No. 14 LSU 78-66, beat No. 22 Auburn 76-74, beat then-No. 16 Georgia
62-56.

19. Boston College (25-6)

Points: 257. Previous ranking: 25. Tuesday's result: Beat Rutgers 75-57 for Big
East tournament title. Last week: Beat Syracuse 64-36, beat then-No. 21 Miami
(Fla.) 65-53, beat then-No. 3 Connecticut 73-70.

20. Oklahoma (20-8)

Points: 219. Previous ranking: 19. Tuesday's result: Beat Texas A&M 60-47. Next:
Tonight vs. No. 13 Colorado in Big 12 tournament. Last week: Lost to then-No. 4
Texas 57-54.

21. Minnesota (21-8)

Points: 188. Previous ranking: 17. Regular season complete. Last week: Beat
Northwestern 68-47, lost to Ohio State 58-50.

22. Auburn (21-8)

Points: 123. Previous ranking: 22. Regular season complete. Last week: Lost to
then-unranked Vanderbilt 76-74.

23. DePaul (22-6)

Points: 112. Previous ranking: 20. Regular season complete. Last week: Lost to
Marquette 74-70.

24. Miami (Fla.) (22-6)

Points: 107. Previous ranking: 21. Regular season complete. Last week: Lost to
then-No. 25 Boston College 65-53.

25. Michigan State (21-8)

Points: 95. Previous ranking: 24. Regular season complete. Last week: Beat Iowa
81-54, lost to then-No. 5 Penn State 58-54.

Dropped out: No. 23 Villanova.

Others receiving votes: Ohio State (20-9) 86; Chattanooga (28-2) 82; Villanova
(22-6) 57; Arizona (24-8) 37; Southwest Missouri State (25-3) 37; Montana (25-4)
35; Virginia Tech (22-7) 33; Rutgers (21-10) 18; Liberty (22-6) 9; Florida
(18-10) 8; Notre Dame (19-10) 8; Utah (22-6) 8; Old Dominion (22-6) 7; UCLA
(17-12) 6; Loyola Marymount (24-5) 5; West Virginia (21-10) 3; Marquette (21-9)
2; George Washington (22-7) 1.

The USA TODAY/ESPN Board of Coaches is made up of 40 head coaches at Division I
institutions. All are members of the Women's Basketball Coaches Association. The
WBCA prohibits schools on major NCAA or conference probation from receiving
votes.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              571 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Brattleboro Reformer (Vermont)

                           September 11, 2015 Friday

Business Briefs

BYLINE: Brattleboro Reformer

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1183 words


Marlboro College ranked among best national liberal arts colleges

MARLBORO &GT;&GT; Marlboro College is recently announced that it is included in
this year's U.S. News and World Report list of the Best National Liberal Arts
Schools, where it tied with six other schools for the No. 136 spot. Marlboro
will be included in the new "Best Colleges 2016" guidebook, available later in
September, one of the premier resources used by prospective college students in
the United States.

"Marlboro offers a distinctive and academically rich setting for a liberal arts
education, where students are prepared for thoughtful, purposeful, and effective
engagement in a rapidly changing world," said Kevin Quigley, Marlboro College
president. "Our ranking by U.S. News is yet another confirmation of the value of
a Marlboro education, and the national profile of our intentionally small
college."

Marlboro College returns to the U.S. News rankings this year after several years
of being absent. Several institutions including Marlboro voluntarily pulled out
of all or portions of the rankings in 2007 amid debate over methodologies that
seemed to unfairly disadvantage smaller colleges. Despite a student population
of between 200 and 300, making it one of the smallest colleges in the nation,
Marlboro was encouraged by recent changes to the methodology.

U.S. News rankings are based on several key measures of quality, including an
assessment of excellence by peer colleges and high school guidance counselors.
They also include weighted measures of graduation and retention rates, faculty
resources, student selectivity, financial resources, graduation rate, and alumni
giving.

"Marlboro College is pleased to be participating in the U.S. News rankings again
this year, as we consider this a valuable resource for prospective students,
especially international students," said Quigley. "It's also important to point
out many key characteristics of a college like Marlboro, not measured by
rankings, such as self-directed learning, interdisciplinary approaches, close
collegial relationships with faculty, and the sense of community."

For example, Marlboro is unusual in its practice of including all community
members   faculty, staff, and students   in campus-wide decisions through
regular Vermont-style Town Meetings. "While many liberal arts colleges share the
objective of helping students become citizens of the world, Marlboro has an
advantage because of our practices as a community, including students' role in
governance at Town Meetings," added Quigley. Gosselin joins Stevens & Associates

BRATTLEBORO &GT;&GT; Stevens & Associates recently welcomed Nathaniel Gosselin
to the team as an engineering intern. Gosselin has received Bachelor of Science
degrees in Environmental Engineering and Natural Resources: Forestry, from the
University of Vermont. Gosselin's studies focused on water and wastewater system
design through an approach integrating subsurface hydrology, geotechnical
principles, and ecosystem management. Also, Gosselin's studies have incorporated
visual based modelling to approach engineering problems with a landscape
perspective. His professional experience includes several years in forestry and
as a Group Leader for a major retail corporation distribution center.

The architects, engineers and landscape architects at Stevens & Associates work
on a variety of commercial and residential projects. Currently, Gosselin is
working on erosion control inspections and underground utility line construction
review, as well as, construction phase permit compliance for the development of
a ground mounted solar photovoltaic system. The team looks forward to
incorporating Gosselin's analytical and management skills in site design
projects.

Stevens & Associates is an Architecture and Engineering firm specializing in the
design and development of livable communities. For more information, visit
www.stevens-assoc.com or call 802-257-9329.The Gathering Place welcomes Crawford

BRATTELBORO &GT;&GT; The Gathering Place recently welcomed Bette Crawford as a
new board member.

Her early education began in Rockland, Mass., before graduating from Sacred
Heart High School, in Kingston, Mass., and attending two years of Cape Cod
Community School. Crawford accomplished Metal Smithing in Rhode Island and
Museum of Fine Arts in Boston for a year.

"I had always summered on Cape Cod as a youngster and moved to the Cape
permanently at 15," she said. "My Ddad and his partner started 'The Pancake Man
of Cape Cod' in the 60s, where I worked summers for 25 years. I then came to the
great state of Vermont in October of 62 for a Halloween party and took up skiing
very seriously as a ski bum.

In 1975, when her dad and his partner retired, she and the former controller for
Mount Snow bought the Hyannis and South Yarmouth operations and then the Pancake
Man on Cape Cod. In 1987, she moved to Vermont and ran a bread and breakfast out
of her home and got involved with The Strolling of the Heifers with Orly
Muzing.Grafton regional sales manager recognized by American Cheese Society

GRAFTON &GT;&GT; Grafton Village Cheese is proud to announce that its New York
Regional Sales Manager Amy Sisti-Baum is among the 2015 class of American Cheese
Society Certified Cheese Professionals. Sisti-Baum is part of an elite group of
187 individuals from 51 different companies who passed the fourth annual ACS
Certified Cheese Professional Exam. The exam was held on July 29 in Providence,
R.I. ACS CCPs currently total 593 individuals throughout the United States and
Canada. For a full list of ACS CCPs, please visit www.cheesesociety.org .

Sisti-Baum joined Grafton Village Cheese as New York Regional Sales Manager in
June 2014. Prior to her position at Grafton, she held sales and marketing
positions at Murray's Cheese, Forever Cheese and Sprout Creek Farm. She holds a
Bachelor of Science in Food and Nutrition in Business from Arizona State
University.Resource district receives grant

BRATTLEBORO &GT;&GT; The Windham Count Natural Resources Conservation District
was awarded a $6,000 grant though the Vermont Department of Environmental
Conservation's 2016 Ecosystem Restoration Program. The Vermont River Conservancy
will be working closely with the WCNRCD to assess several properties along the
Whetstone Brook for conservation of floodwater retention sites. Working with
willing landowners VRC will enter into conservation agreements that restrict
development of permanent structures, establish permanent vegetated buffers, and
encourage ecological restoration of the river channel.

The Vermont Economic Resiliency Initiative study of Brattleboro also identified
preservation of these parcels as steps that could minimalize rebuilding and
recovery costs by conserving floodplains. The WCNRCD will be working with them
to forward the results of this scoping grant. In addition the WCNRCD will look
forward to working with the Department of Environmental Conservation's River
Scientist and Watershed Coordinator and the Brattleboro Conservation Commission.
The completion date is set for December of 2016.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              572 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 14, 2005, Monday, FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY ESPN Top 25 coaches' poll

SECTION: BONUS; Pg. 16E

LENGTH: 867 words

Final regular-season poll

1. Stanford (29-2)

Points: 973 (30 first-place votes). Previous ranking: 1. NCAA opener: Saturday
vs. Santa Clara at Fresno in Kansas City Regional. Last week: Idle.

2. North Carolina (27-3)

Points: 937 (5). Previous ranking: 2. NCAA opener: Sunday vs. Coppin State at
Chapel Hill, N.C., in Tempe Regional. Last week: Idle.


3. Tennessee (26-4)

Points: 925 (1). Previous ranking: 3. NCAA opener: Sunday vs. Western Carolina
at Knoxville, Tenn., in Philadelphia Regional. Last week: Idle.

4. LSU (29-2)

Points: 901 (4). Previous ranking: 4. NCAA opener: Sunday vs. Stetson at
Knoxville in Chattanooga Regional. Last week: Idle.

5. Michigan State (28-3)

Points: 832. Previous ranking: 5. NCAA opener: Saturday vs. Alcorn State at
Minneapolis in Kansas City Regional. Last week: Idle.

6. Baylor (27-3)

Points: 807. Previous ranking: 6. NCAA opener: Saturday vs. Illinois State at
Seattle in Tempe Regional. Last week: Beat Missouri 70-52, beat No. 14 Texas
Tech 58-57, beat then-No. 17 Kansas State 68-55 in Big 12 final.

7. Ohio State (28-4)

Points: 721. Previous ranking: 7. NCAA opener: Sunday vs. Holy Cross at College
Park, Md., in Philadelphia Regional. Last week: Idle.

8. Duke (28-4)

Points: 709. Previous ranking: 8. NCAA opener: Sunday vs. Canisius at Chapel
Hill, N.C., in Chattanooga Regional. Last week: Idle.

9. Connecticut (23-7)

Points: 660. Previous ranking: 11. NCAA opener: Sunday vs. Dartmouth at Storrs,
Conn., in Kansas City Regional. Last week: Beat then-No. 9 Rutgers 67-51 in Big
East final.

10. Rutgers (25-6)

Points: 615. Previous ranking: 9. NCAA opener: Sunday vs. Hartford at Storrs,
Conn., in Philadelphia Regional. Last week: Lost to then-No. 11 Connecticut
67-51 in Big East final.

11. Texas (21-8)

Points: 538. Previous ranking: 10. NCAA opener: Saturday vs. Oral Roberts at
Dallas in Chattanooga Regional. Last week: Beat Oklahoma 65-59, lost to then-No.
17 Kansas State 72-69 in Big 12 semifinal.

12. Minnesota (24-7)

Points: 535. Previous ranking: 13. NCAA opener: Saturday vs. St. Francis (Pa.)
at Minneapolis in Tempe Regional. Last week: Idle.

13. Notre Dame (26-5)

Points: 496. Previous ranking: 12. NCAA opener: Saturday vs. UC Santa Barbara at
Fresno in Tempe Regional. Last week: Idle.

14. Texas Tech (22-7)

Points: 478. Previous ranking: 14. NCAA opener: Saturday vs. Texas-Arlington at
Dallas in Philadelphia Regional. Last week: Beat No. 19 Iowa State 61-59, lost
to No. 6 Baylor 58-57 in Big 12 semifinal.

15. Temple (27-3)

Points: 440. Previous ranking: 15. NCAA opener: Sunday vs. Louisiana Tech at
Storrs, Conn., in Philadelphia Regional. Last week: Idle.

16. Kansas State (23-7)

Points: 437. Previous ranking: 17. NCAA opener: Saturday vs. Bowling Green at
Seattle in Kansas City Regional. Last week: Beat Nebraska 71-45, beat then-No.
10 Texas 72-69, lost to No. 6 Baylor 68-55 in Big Ten final.

17. DePaul (25-4)

Points: 364. Previous ranking: 16. NCAA opener: Sunday vs. Virginia Tech at
College Park, Md., in Chattanooga Regional. Last week: Idle.

18. Vanderbilt (22-7)

Points: 324. Previous ranking: 18. NCAA opener: Saturday vs. Montana at Seattle
in Kansas City Regional. Last week: Idle.

19. Iowa State (23-6)

Points: 276. Previous ranking: 19. NCAA opener: Saturday vs. Utah at Fresno in
Kansas City Regional. Last week: Beat Colorado 64-62, lost to No. 14 Texas Tech
61-59 in Big 12 quarterfinal.

20. Georgia (22-9)

Points: 210. Previous ranking: 20. NCAA opener: Saturday vs. Rice at Dallas in
Chattanooga Regional. Last week: Idle.

21. Wisconsin-Green Bay (27-3)

Points: 172. Previous ranking: 21. NCAA opener: Sunday vs. Maryland at College
Park, Md., in Philadelphia Regional. Last week: Idle.

22. North Carolina State (21-7)

Points: 140. Previous ranking: 22. NCAA opener: Saturday vs. Middle Tennessee
State at Dallas in Philadelphia Regional. Last week: Idle.

23. TCU (23-9)

Points: 134. Previous ranking: 24. NCAA opener: Saturday vs. Oregon at Seattle
in Tempe Regional. Last week: Idle.

24. Arizona State (22-9)

Points: 89. Previous ranking: 25. NCAA opener: Saturday vs. Eastern Kentucky at
Fresno in Tempe Regional. Last week: Idle.

25. Penn State (19-10)

Points: 82. Previous ranking: 23. NCAA opener: Sunday vs. Liberty at College
Park, Md., in Chattanooga Regional. Last week: Idle.

Dropped out: None.

Other receiving votes: New Mexico (26-4) 62, Boston College (19-9) 21, Maryland
(21-9) 21, Gonzaga (27-3) 16, Southern California (19-10) 15, Oregon (20-9) 13,
Delaware (25-5) 9, Virginia (20-10) 8, Rice (24-8) 7, George Washington (22-8)
5, Louisville (22-8) 5, Middle Tennessee (23-8) 5, Bowling Green (23-7) 3, UCLA
(16-12) 3, Villanova (19-11) 3, Houston (21-8) 2, Old Dominion (22-8) 2, Arizona
(19-11) 1, Florida State (23-7) 1, Holy Cross (20-10) 1, Liberty (24-6) 1, St.
Francis (Pa.) (21-9) 1.

The USA TODAY/ESPN board of coaches is made up of 40 coaches at Division I
schools, all members of the Women's Basketball Coaches Association. The WBCA
prohibits schools on major NCAA or conference probation from receiving votes.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              573 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                          September 10, 2015 Thursday

Westminster, others in Utah appear in national rankings

BYLINE: Morgan Jacobsen Deseret News

LENGTH: 492 words


By Morgan Jacobsen

Deseret News

SALT LAKE CITY - Leaders of Westminster College are smiling at national rankings
released Tuesday by U.S. News that measure overall educational value,
affordability, services for military veteran students and other metrics.

Among the rankings for schools in Western states in the 2016 report on best
colleges, Salt Lake City's liberal arts college ranked 20th for "best regional
university," sixth among "best value schools," 20th among "A-plus schools for B
students," and 18th "best college for veterans."

Darlene Dilley, director of undergraduate admissions at Westminster, said the
rankings give a broad look at indicators that are important to students, such as
cost, educational quality and college experience.

"This is something that students and families pay attention to," Dilley said.
"They're looking for colleges who not only provide a strong educational
experience inside the classroom, but that experience outside the classroom is
just as valuable. And we are committed to making it affordable. Our average
financial aid package for our incoming class this year was over $24,000."

The best regional university rankings were based on 16 weighted indicators, such
as first-year student retention, graduation rates, quality of the faculty and
financial resources. Best value schools were rated according to net cost,
need-based aid and the average discount for students. The A-plus schools for B
students ranking included only schools with students across a range of academic
abilities and a freshman retention rate of 75 percent or higher.

Dilley said Westminster has maintained high rankings on the report for several
years, but this year's recognition for the school's work with military veteran
students came two days before the opening of Westminster's Center for Veteran
and Military Services on Friday.

"I think the overall environment of the college is very attractive to veterans.
It's that personalized attention, it's that one-on-one accessibility that all
students, especially veterans, can have with their faculty members," she said.
"And we understand the value that they contribute to our classrooms as well."

Other Utah colleges ranked in the U.S. News report.

Brigham Young University appeared in several lists:

* 16th best value school.

* 33rd best business school.

* 34th best law school.

* 66th overall among national universities.

The University of Utah also ranked among national universities:

* 55th among top public schools.

* 94th best college for veterans.

* 115th overall among national universities.

Weber State University fell among other top-performing regional universities:

* 29th in top public schools.

* 49th best college for veterans.

* 77th best overall among regional universities.

Utah State University ranked 13th best in both online bachelor's programs and
graduate education programs, as well as having the 33rd best college of
education.

Email: mjacobsen@deseretnews.com

Twitter: MorganEJacobsen

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                              574 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              March 6, 2015 Friday

Meredith College in Top 5 on 2015 Best Women's Colleges Ranking

LENGTH: 164  words

DATELINE: Raleigh


Meredith College has issued the following news release:

Meredith College is rated number five on the College Choice 2015 ranking of best
U.S. women's colleges.

All regionally accredited women's colleges were considered for this ranking,
which is based on the factors actual college freshmen said were most important
to their college decision: academic reputation, financial aid offerings, overall
cost, and success of graduates in the post-college job market.

Meredith College scored a 91 in academic reputation, which was the second
highest on the list. The ranking calls Meredith "one of the best women's
colleges in the South" and touts the College's "strong emphasis on study abroad,
leadership development, and hands-on learning." The profile also notes that
nearly 99% of Meredith graduates are employed or attending graduate school
within nine months of graduation.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              575 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              March 6, 2015 Friday

Meredith College in Top 5 on 2015 Best Women's Colleges Ranking

LENGTH: 164  words

DATELINE: Raleigh


Meredith College has issued the following news release:

Meredith College is rated number five on the College Choice 2015 ranking of best
U.S. women's colleges.

All regionally accredited women's colleges were considered for this ranking,
which is based on the factors actual college freshmen said were most important
to their college decision: academic reputation, financial aid offerings, overall
cost, and success of graduates in the post-college job market.

Meredith College scored a 91 in academic reputation, which was the second
highest on the list. The ranking calls Meredith "one of the best women's
colleges in the South" and touts the College's "strong emphasis on study abroad,
leadership development, and hands-on learning." The profile also notes that
nearly 99% of Meredith graduates are employed or attending graduate school
within nine months of graduation.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              576 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                             July 28, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

CU;
No. 5 on 'reefer madness' listing;
'Reefer madness';
CU ranks;
high on;
Princeton;
listings;
Report includes Boulder campus;
on its party-school rankings, too

BYLINE: Brittany Anas Camera Staff Writer

SECTION: A:DAILY CAMERA; Pg. 01

LENGTH: 509 words


Princeton Review's rankings of CU

No. 5

for "Reefer madness"

No. 11

for "Lots of hard liquor"

No. 11

for "Party schools"

No. 13

for "Great college towns"

The University of Colorado's Boulder campus smoked other colleges in a "reefer
madness" ranking published by the Princeton Review.

CU ranked No. 5 on the Princeton Review's list, which will be published in the
2010 edition of the company's annual college guide, "The Best 371 Colleges,"
which will be on shelves today.

The school slipped a couple of spots from its No. 3 ranking last year in the
publication's cannabis culture category.

The campus also ranked No. 11 for "lots of hard liquor," and "party schools." It
landed No. 13 in the "great college towns" category.

The Princeton Review -- a test prep company that has no affiliation with
Princeton University -- asked 122,000 students at 371 top colleges to rate their
schools on dozens of topics and report on their campus experiences.

Every April 20, at an unsanctioned event on the CU campus, throngs of
pot-smokers gather to smoke weed and protest drug laws. University officials
estimated about 8,000 people packed Norlin Quad for this year's 4/20 gathering.

"It surprises me that we would be ranked No. 5 considering the 4/20 event that
brings thousands of people to Boulder every year, but I guess there are other
schools that are constantly smoking pot," said Erin Smith, who will be a senior
at CU in the fall.

Asked whether the rankings will affect the value of her CU degree, Smith said:
"No. I know that CU is a good school, and I would hope that when applying for
jobs, employers would judge my character and values rather than the school's
reputation."

CU spokesman Bronson Hilliard has said the school doesn't take the rankings
seriously because the methodology is not scientific.

Hilliard said the number of alcohol incidents reported to the school's judicial
affairs, including underage drinking and possession, dropped by 16 percent over
the past year. There were 3,040 cases in 2008-09, compared to 3,632 in 2007-08.

"Nationally, all colleges and universities are wrestling with issues of partying
and drinking and drugs," Hilliard said.

In 2003, the Princeton Review named CU the nation's top party school.

Penn State University in University Park, Pa., topped this year's party-school
rankings. The No. 1 pot-smoking school, according to the rankings, is the
University of California's Santa Cruz campus.

The Princeton Review uses student interviews and data from schools to compile
its lists of rankings in 62 categories.

"Each of our 371 'best' colleges offers great academics," said Robert Franek,
company's vice president and publisher. "However, we don't rank schools
academically because our goal is to help students find and get into the best
school for them."

Other categories include best career services office; best financial aid; most
politically active students; "everyone plays intramural sports"; and stone-cold
sober schools.

Contact Camera Staff Writer Brittany Anas at 303-473-1132 or
anasb@dailycamera.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: An unidentified man lights up during this year's 4/20 marijuana
smokeout on the University of Colorado campus. The school ranked No. 5 for
"reefer madness" in the Princeton Review's annual college guide.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 Daily Camera and Boulder Publishing, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              577 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              July 26, 2013 Friday

Indiana: Indiana University Bloomington named one of nation's 25 best public
colleges

LENGTH: 181  words

DATELINE: Indianapolis


Indiana University, The State of Indiana has issued the following news release:

Indiana University Bloomington is among the nation's top 25 best public colleges
and universities, according to new rankings from Forbes.
IU Limestone Crest

Print-Quality Photo

IU Bloomington ranks 22nd among public colleges and universities in Forbes' Top
Colleges rankings. Overall, the university ranked 97th out of 650 schools,
joining the top 100 for the first time since Forbes began its college rankings
in 2008 and moving up 47 spots from its 2012 ranking of 144.

Forbes partnered with the Washington, D.C.-based Center for College
Affordability and Productivity to produce the Top Colleges list. The rankings
consider a number of factors, including student satisfaction, student debt,
four-year graduation rate and nationally competitive scholarships and
fellowships received by students, such as the Rhodes and Fulbright.

Among the more highly weighted factors is post-graduate success, including
salary of alumni pulled from Payscale.com.

For further information please visit: http://www.indiana.edu/

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              578 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                            December 9, 2012 Sunday

India will now rank its own varsities

BYLINE: By Ritika Chopra in New Delhi

LENGTH: 336  words


THE CONSTANT criticism for the lack of any Indian university or institute making
it to the top 200 of different international rankings has put the government on
the defensive.

In a bid to counter the questions that have been raised over the woeful state of
higher education, the HRD ministry is coming up with its own system of ranking
Indian universities and colleges.

On Friday, the University Grants Commission ( UGC) approved a new regulation
that makes accreditation mandatory for all institutions of higher education. The
government is sure that the regulation will facilitate ranking as well, as all
universities and colleges which approach the National Assessment and
Accreditation Council ( NAAC) for accreditation can also be ranked
simultaneously.

NAAC is hopeful of developing the ranking instrument by next year and does not
want to limit it only to Indian institutions.

" We are going to hold consultation with experts from abroad to evolve
parameters that are acceptable internationally, so that eventually our ranking
can also extend to institutions outside India," said NAAC director HA Ranganath.

Currently in India, ranking of universities, colleges and their programmes is
done mainly by news magazines.

NAAC's ranking will be the first government initiative in this area.

The proposal stems from the embarrassment that the government has faced with
even institutions such as IIMs and IITs not making it to top 200 of
international rankings for 2012 such as Quacquarelli Symonds, Times Higher
Education ( THE) World University Ranking and the Academic Ranking of World
Universities ( ARWU) published by Shanghai Jiao Tong University.

For instance, in QS ranking this year IIT Bombay, which stood 187 in 2010 and
dropped to 225 in 2011, finally slipped further down to the 227 position.

Programme for International Student Assessment or PISA ( 2009+) for school
education did not bring any good news for India, either, as it stood just two
positions above the worst performing country out of a total of 74.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2012 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              579 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         LaGrange Daily News (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 13, 2012 Thursday

LaGrange College in top 10 - again

BYLINE: LaGrange Daily News, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 273 words


Sept. 13--LaGrange College continues its run as a top 10 best college in
U.S.News & World Report's annual evaluation of American colleges and
universities.

For the ninth consecutive year, the college was listed among the top 10 of the
South's "Best Regional Colleges." LaGrange tied at ninth in the magazine's
rankings released Wednesday.

"Our longevity in the top 10 is a testament to the value of the learning and
living experience we offer our students," said Dan McAlexander, president.
"While some dispute the validity of such rankings, we feel they offer parents
and students one way to evaluate institutions. They also recognize that
differentiating factors like our servant scholars and study away commitment set
us apart from our peers. As always, it's nice to see LaGrange College's name
listed among the top colleges in the South."

For its rankings, U.S.News looks at a number of factors, which also include
class sizes, peer assessment, freshman retention, faculty resources, student
selectivity, financial resources and alumni giving.

The magazine's editors say that although "the host of intangibles that make up
the college experience can't be measured by a series of data points, the
rankings provide an excellent starting point for the college search."

A four-year liberal arts and sciences college affiliated with the United
Methodist Church, LaGrange College is an award winner in sustainability and is
the oldest private institution of higher learning in Georgia.

___ (c)2012 the LaGrange Daily News (LaGrange, Ga.) Visit the LaGrange Daily
News (LaGrange, Ga.) at www.lagrangenews.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120913-GV-LaGrange-College-in-top-10-again-0913-20120913

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GV


                       Copyright 2012 LaGrange Daily News


                              580 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            April 2, 2008 Wednesday

Y. ranks 29th for business school

BYLINE: Wendy Leonard Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 549 words


Two of Utah's largest schools -- the University of Utah and Brigham Young
University -- are touting high ratings in U.S. News & World Report's most recent
rankings of graduate schools across the country.

The Salt Lake City school boasted placement on each of the magazine's lists,
including a ranking within the nation's best business, medical and law schools.
Provo's BYU showed up as the 29th best business school in the country and 46th
best law school.

The U.'s S.J. Quinney College of Law moved up among the top-tier law schools,
ranking 51st, six spots higher than last year's tally, which compares schools
according to surveys of more than 1,200 programs and 14,000 academics and
professionals that were conducted in fall 2007.

"Rankings are of instrumental importance as a rough proxy of value used by
applicants, peers, donors and employers," said Hiram Chodosh, dean of the U.'s
College of Law. "However, at the same time, rankings do not shape our
institutional values and commitments."

By numbers, however, BYU's law school -- whose ranking of 46th-best was a drop
of two spots from last year -- carries about 60 more students than the U. and
puts a lower price tag on their education, asking $17,400 for tuition. The U.
charges more than $26,000.

Chodosh said the U. school has worked hard to "earn" the ranking with its
dedication to "making a difference in the world through training the next
generation of leaders, raising and helping to solve critical issues of our time,
and finding innovative ways to serve our local, national and global
communities."

This year, the U.'s medical school placed 50th in the nation for research and
31st for primary care, moving up a total of 14 spots from last year. Recognition
was also given for various programs, including pharmacy, physician assistant,
nursing, nursing-midwifery, audiology, clinical psychology, occupational
therapy, physical therapy and rehabilitation counseling.

Among business schools, five of Utah's public colleges and universities ended up
on the list, though some of them went recognized but unranked. Among those
mentioned were Utah State University's Huntsman Business College, Weber State
University's Goddard School of Business and the Business College at Southern
Utah University.

BYU's Marriott School of Business again landed high on the list, ranking 29th in
the nation. The competitive school moved up from its 41st-place spot in the same
category last year.

The U.'s David Eccles School of Business dropped off the top-50 list, where it
ranked 46th last year, but was recognized at number 51 for its Master of Public
Administration program. The university's College of Engineering tied with
Michigan State University at number 59, while the U.'s College of Education was
ranked 73rd overall.

Each year, U.S. News ranks school programs in business, education, engineering,
law and medicine. From time to time, other programs are also surveyed and
ranked. The magazine reports are based on two types of data: expert opinion
about program quality and statistical indicators that measure the quality of a
school's faculty, research and students.

Highlights of the graduate school rankings are available in the April edition of
U.S. News & World Report magazine, which hit newsstands Monday. E-mail:
wleonard@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                              581 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Watertown Daily Times (New York)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 21, 2009 Friday

Clarkson, SLU ranked higher

BYLINE: Alex Jacobs, Watertown Daily Times, N.Y.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 682 words


Aug. 21--In the annual horse race of colleger ankings, both Clarkson University
and St. Lawrence University have pulled ahead two spots this year.

U.S. News & World Report included Clarkson, SLU and SUNY Potsdam in "America's
Best Colleges 2010."

Clarkson University, Potsdam, inched up a couple of spots this year, coming in
at No. 119 in the tier-one list of national universities. Last year, the college
was listed at No. 121.

"What people need to keep in mind is that everybody is trying to improve. So
it's not a static benchmark. Everything keeps moving up and you have to really
work hard to get ahead of the pack," college President Anthony G. Collins said.
"We want to be recognized as being a nationally ranked university; after that,
we like to point out how we're different."

Clarkson's supply chain management program continues to earn top marks, with its
ranking of 14th best in the nation. The college's undergraduate engineering
program also was recognized, earning the No. 85 spot. The university also made
the "A+ Options for B Students" list once again this year.

Mr. Collins, who has defended the U.S. News rankings in the past against
higher-0education critics who say they present an unfair metric, said he
continues to look to the college's placement on the lists as another way of
measuring how Clarkson is doing.

"The rankings are perceived by a lot of people to be a way of distinguishing
universities, and if that's the perception, that's the reality," he said. "We
should be measured that way, because there are ways our students will be
measured, in terms of benchmarks they may not agree with. That's the world we
live in."

St. Lawrence University, Canton, is listed as No. 56 out of 266 schools in the
magazine's liberal arts colleges rankings, up from its spot at No. 58 last year.

"We know, from our own research, that St. Lawrence University is one of the best
liberal arts institutions in the nation. It is nevertheless gratifying to have
independent research that confirms it," university President William L. Fox said
in a statement. "We're pleased that the achievements of our students, faculty
and staff have been recognized in this way."

SLU also was listed among the colleges with the most students studying abroad
and living on campus.

"St. Lawrence has always participated in the U.S. News peer survey. I know there
are other colleges who opt not to. We believe students should have as many
resources as they possibly can have to make a choice," university spokeswoman
Lisa M. Cania said.

High school counselors also ranked the north country's two private colleges on
their lists of the best schools to send students to in U.S. News & World Report.
Clarkson shared the rank of 169 along with 21 other colleges in the national
universities category as ranked by the counselors in the magazine, and SLU
shared the rank of 57 with 10 other universities in the liberal arts colleges
list.

SUNY Potsdam was listed in the top tier of public and private universities in
the north for the 11th consecutive year. That list does not include numbered
rankings.

"At SUNY Potsdam we take pride in the recognition of the accomplishments of our
graduates. For 200 years this has translated into respect and recognition for
the excellence of the programs of the college," President John F. Schwaller said
in a statement. "While we are happy to be recognized in U.S. News as one of the
nation's best colleges, our students and alumni are constituencies to whom we
turn to inform ourselves about how to best fulfill our mission."

SUNY Canton is not ranked by U.S. News & World Report.

ON THE NET U.S. News & World Report rankings www.usnews.com/colleges

To see more of the Watertown Daily Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.watertowndailytimes.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Watertown Daily
Times, N.Y. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints,
email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send
a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee
Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090821-WE-COLLEGE-RANKINGS-20090821

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WE


                      Copyright 2009 Watertown Daily Times


                              582 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           November 8, 2007 Thursday

Several Irish universities advance in world rankings

BYLINE: Seán Flynn, Education Editor

SECTION: IRELAND; Other Stories; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 387 words


The ranking of several Irish universities has improved in the latest league
table from the prestigious Times Higher Education Supplement (THES).

Trinity College is now ranked as the 53rd best university in the world, up from
78 last year.

For the first time, University College Dublin has broken into the top 200
universities in the world, ranked 177th.

UCD president Dr Hugh Brady welcomed the ranking as "an encouraging support of
those universities committed to major programmes of reform. The improved
methodology, with the increased weighting given to high-quality peer-reviewed
publications, maps out the only way to go for Irish higher education if it is to
continue its upward trajectory . . ."

The ranking of DCU has also improved spectacularly, up almost 150 places to a
place inside the top 300. It is the first time that the university has been
ranked by the THES and represents a coup for a relatively new university.

Last night, its president, Prof Ferdinand von Prondzynski, said that this
reflected the university's major achievements across the board, particularly in
research.

The rankings are the most comprehensive world listings. They are regarded as an
important benchmark of quality by college heads. They are also widely used by
prospective students, especially postgraduates.

The improved ranking for the Irish universities comes against a backdrop of huge
controversy, particularly in Trinity and UCD where major restructuring has drawn
fierce opposition from many academics.

But their improved showing seems certain to boost the so called "pro-business"
agenda being pushed through by the TCD provost, Dr John Hegarty, and by Dr Brady
in UCD.

The calculations leading to the THES-QS World University Rankings are based on
data gathered in various categories including:

* Peer review;

* Recruiter review;

* International faculty ratio;

* International students ratio;

* Student faculty ratio;

* Citations per faculty.

The top 25 world universities are dominated by American colleges.

World's top universities

1 Harvard, US.

2 Oxford, UK;

Cambridge, UK;

Yale, US.

5 Imperial College, London

6 Princeton, US

7 California Institute of Technology, US;

University of Chicago, US.

9 UCL (University College London).

10 Massachusetts Institute  of Technology, US

53 Trinity College Dublin

177 University College Dublin

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              583 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Brattleboro Reformer (Vermont)

                            March 6, 2013 Wednesday

Marlboro College profs recognized

BYLINE: Reformer Staff / Reformer Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 389 words


Wednesday March 6, 2013

By HOWARD WEISS-TISMAN

MARLBORO -- Marlboro College has been included on a national list that
recognizes the colleges with the best professors in the country.

Marlboro College was among the top 25 colleges and universities with the best
professors according to the Center for College Affordability and Productivity, a
Washington D.C.-based research group that produces studies on college
affordability and quality issues.

"This is definitely not a surprise to us, but it is nice to see Marlboro
recognized by the outside world," said Marlboro College Director of Marketing
and Communications Matthew Barone. "We are proud of our small classes, and in an
environment like that students really get to know their professors."

The center produces the data for the annual college ranking report in Forbes
Magazine.

The Center for College Affordability and Productivity is dedicated to
researching the rising costs and stagnant efficiency in higher education,
according to the group's website.

The annual ranking system in Forbes Magazine uses post graduate success, student
satisfaction, debt, four year graduation rates and competitive awards to measure
650 colleges across the country.

Marlboro's high ranking for its professors grew out of student surveys and
online professor ranking blogs that give students the opportunity to anonymously
critique their professors.

Many of the colleges with the best professors are small, liberal arts schools,
which typically have small classes.

The smaller campuses also tend to allow students more opportunities to get to
know their professors, said Barone.

"We hear from alumni all the time that their relationships with professors here
at Marlboro were among the most important experiences of their time here," said
Barone. "It's something that matters when students and teachers make important
connections."

The Forbes system uses all of the information to rank the schools.

Students satisfaction accounts for about a quarter of the overall ranking.

"This reinforces who we are and what we do," Barone said. "Students have to work
closely with their professors and it's gratifying to see us on that list given
that this is exactly who we are at our core."

Howard Weiss-Tisman can be reached athwtisman@reformer.com , or 802-254-2311,
ext. 279. You can follow him on Twitter @HowardReformer.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              584 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)

                           September 10, 2013 Tuesday

Commentary: Raters of the liberal arts

BYLINE: Ray Frager

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 246  words


The new college and university rankings from U.S. News & World Report are out.
And after you have checked on where your alma mater stands (mine is at No. 18
among regional universities), you should read The Atlantic's concise roundup
about why you should ignore these ratings.

John Tierney lumps the U.S. News rankings in with junk food and celebrity
obsession as something we consume though it's bad for us. What's wrong with the
list? A sampling:

*U.S. News changes what it measures, so it's hard to compare one year with
another.

*"Because the rankings have a popular audience, they encourage colleges and
universities to game the system. " Or outright cheat.

*There is no measure of educational outcomes. You know, like getting a job.

*"A very substantial chunk (22.5 to 25 percent) of an institution's ranking
comes not from any hard data but from a 'reputational' measure, in which U.S.
News solicits 'peer assessments' from college presidents, provosts and
admissions directors, as well as input from high-school counselors. " Hmm.
Sounds like college football's Top 25.

Tierney says the rankings can provide a "rough guide" to colleges, but "using
the U.S. News rankings for any more exacting purpose is about as good for you as
eating potato chips and Gummy Bears for dinner. With maple syrup. "

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aix418f-Fk0



http://www.mddailyrecord.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from this
resource.

© 2013 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              585 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                          September 24, 2016 Saturday

Give Me a Crash Course in . . . University rankings

BYLINE: Carl O'Brien

SECTION: WEEKEND; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 583 words


Is it true Irish universities got downgraded by ratings agencies this week? Sort
of. The latest set of influential world university rankings - compiled by Times
Higher Education - shows that no Irish university made the prestigious top-200
list for the first time.

Trinity College Dublin, which ranked 160th last year, was omitted at short
notice due to an error which saw it tumble down the rankings. UCD, meanwhile,
slipped from 176th place into the 201-250 band. It sits alongside the Royal
College of Surgeons in Ireland (RCSI) and National University of Ireland (NUI)
Galway, both of which gained ground from their rankings in the 250-300 band last
year.

So, Trinity can't do its maths. Right? Both Trinity and Times Higher Education
say there was an honest mistake made in data sent by the college. It is
understood it related to the state of Trinity finances and may have been a
misplaced decimal point. This is likely to have adversely affected its ranking
position both this year and last, according to the rankings agency. It will
feature in a revised set of rankings over the coming months.

If we're tumbling down the league tables and can't do our maths, maybe we're not
as smart as we used to be? The rankings agencies use a series of metrics to
assess the performance of individual colleges. These relate to how much money
they have to spend per student, research capacity, citations and universities'
reputations.

They do not, however, measure academic performance or tuition quality. Irish
universities argue that the main factor behind the decline in our top performers
is down to the fact that State funding has been shrinking over the past eight
years or so.

This, in turn, is leading to higher student-to-staff ratios and limiting their
research capacity.

But do any students really care about their university's ranking? Rankings may
not occupy the minds of most students or lecturers. But they are crucial in
attracting research funding, international students and foreign direct
investment. Also, some of the issues which affect rankings - such as
student-to-staff ratios - can be crucial to the quality of tuition.

If we're dunces, who's top of the class? The University of Oxford is the world's
top university, according to the latest rankings, followed by the California
Institute of Technology and Stanford University.

In Europe, most countries have been losing ground while Asian countries, such as
China, Hong Kong and South Korea, are climbing up the rankings.

If many other European countries are losing ground, maybe we're making too much
fuss about this? Maybe - but pressure on the system is set to grow. High birth
rates mean the number of students entering higher education will grow by more
than 20 per cent over the next decade or so. An expert group on the future
funding of higher education was established two years ago to draw up a series of
reform options including a student loan scheme. Its report, published earlier
this year, put it bluntly. "The funding system is simply not fit for purpose,"
the group's chairman, Peter Cassells, wrote. "It fails to recognise the scale of
the coming demographic changes. These pressures are now seriously threatening
quality."

So how do we stem the decline? Universities want a long-term funding model to
guarantee them funding. But any move towards a student loan scheme is a
political hot potato. That may be one reason why Minister for Education Richard
Bruton wants the issue to be debated by an Oireachtas committee.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              586 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          International New York Times

                            October 3, 2015 Saturday

College rank no gauge of effectiveness;
Common Sense

BYLINE: JAMES B. STEWART

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1532 words

ABSTRACT

The new College Scorecard tells how much graduates of particular colleges earn,
but not what effect the colleges have on graduates' earnings.

FULL TEXT

CORRECTION APPENDED

Students, parents and educators increasingly obsessed with college rankings have
a new tool: the Obama administration's College Scorecard. The new database
focuses on a college's graduation rate, graduates' median earnings 10 years
after graduation and the percentage of students paying back their college loans.

While Scorecard adds potentially valuable information to the dizzying array that
is already available, it suffers from many of the same flaws that afflict nearly
every other college ranking system: There is no way to know what, if any, impact
a particular college has on its graduates' earnings, or life for that matter.

''It's a classic example of confusing causation and correlation,'' said Frank
Bruni, the author of ''Where You Go Is Not Who You'll Be,'' a book about the
college admissions process, and an op-ed columnist for The New York Times.
''Anyone who has taken statistics should know better, but when it comes to
colleges, that's what people do. They throw common sense out the window.''

Of course graduates of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (average
postgraduate earnings $91,600, according to the Scorecard) and Harvard ($87,200)
do well. That's because the students they admit have some of the highest test
scores and high school grade point averages in the country, reflecting high
intelligence and a strong work ethic - two factors that cause high future
earnings. That is generally true regardless of where such students attend
college, as long as they go to a reputable four-year institution, various
studies have shown.

''It's absurd,'' said Jerry Z. Muller, a professor of history at Catholic
University of America and the author of ''The Costs of Accountability,'' a study
of misplaced and misunderstood metrics. ''Their graduates have high earnings
because they're incredibly selective about who they let in. And many of them
come from privileged backgrounds, which also correlates with high earnings.''

The College Scorecard does not rank colleges, but anyone can use the data to do
so. M.I.T. (No.6 on Scorecard earnings) and Harvard (No.8) are the only
universities in the Scorecard's top 10 that are also highly ranked by the
influential U.S. News and World Report. The other schools have a narrow focus on
highly paid skills. The No.1 school on Scorecard is MCPHS University, whose
graduates earn, on average, $116,400. (MCPHS stands for Massachusetts College of
Pharmacy and Health Sciences, which is not even ranked by U.S. News.)

But pay, of course, says nothing about the relative quality of different
colleges. ''If you go to M.I.T. and earn a degree in engineering, you're going
to make more than if you go to Oberlin and major in music performance,''
Professor Muller said. ''But you already know this. To rank the value of
colleges based on the ultimate earnings of their graduates radically narrows the
concept of what college is supposed to be for.''

Andrew Delbanco, a professor at Columbia University and author of the book ''
College: What It Was, Is, and Should Be,'' agreed. ''Holding colleges
accountable for how well they prepare students for postcollege life is a good
thing in principle,'' he said. ''But measuring that preparation in purely
monetary terms raises many dangers. Should colleges be encouraged first and
foremost to maximize the net worth of their graduates? I don't think so.''

And that is assuming the earnings data is reliable. Scorecard draws from a
substantial database of tax returns, but measures the postgraduate incomes only
of students who received federal loans or grants, which excludes most students
from high-income families. And high family income is a factor that correlates
strongly with postgraduate earnings.

PayScale, which ranks colleges based on postgraduate earnings reported by users
of its web services, produces numbers that in many cases are substantially
different from Scorecard's. PayScale's ''midcareer'' earnings for graduates of
Harvard (ranked third at $126,000) and M.I.T., (No.6, at $124,000) are much
higher than Scorecard's figures.

As with Scorecard, PayScale's top-ranked institutions, SUNY Maritime College in
the Bronx borough of New York ($134,000) and Harvey Mudd College in Claremont,
Calif. ($133,000), train students for specialized, high-paying fields.

U.S. News does not even include earnings data in its ranking formula, although
it said it might do so. ''The federal data is a large and new data set, and
we're studying it,'' said Brian Kelly, the editor and chief content officer for
U.S. News. ''It represents a subset of students, and we're looking closely to
determine if it in fact tells us what it claims to.''

Some schools highly ranked by U.S. News - Grinnell, Smith and Wellesley, for
example - have low rankings on PayScale and low earnings results on Scorecard.
Mr. Kelly said U.S. News was examining these ''anomalies.''

This year, the Brookings Institution published its own ambitious college
rankings, which try to improve upon what it sees as flaws in the other lists. It
calculates the ''value added'' of each college by comparing what graduates would
be expected to earn given their entering characteristics to what they do earn
after graduating.

Because of their high test scores and other factors, students entering Harvard
would be expected to do well in postgraduate earnings (a projected $85,950,
according to Brookings). That they actually earned $118,200 is a measure of what
a Harvard education added to their potential earnings.

The Brookings rankings factor in the nature of a college's curriculum, the
career choices of its graduates and the percentage of graduates prepared for
so-called STEM occupations (science, technology, engineering and math), so like
Scorecard and PayScale results, its rankings are dominated by schools with
narrow focuses on those high-paying areas.

Of the eight schools earning perfect scores of 100 in its rankings, five have
technology-focused curriculums: California Institute of Technology; M.I.T.;
Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology in Terre Haute, Ind.; SUNY Maritime; and
Clarkson University in Potsdam, N.Y. (Brookings draws its data from PayScale,
LinkedIn and the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics.)

Jonathan Rothwell, a fellow at Brookings and an author of the study, said that
many educators applauded this approach, but it had drawn criticism from the
liberal arts community, which says it unduly weights a narrow focus on
high-paying STEM fields. Mr. Rothwell defended that approach, noting that a
college's curriculum and what field a student studies were ''hugely relevant to
graduate success.''

But he acknowledged that liberal arts programs and programs that train students
for lower-paying fields were valuable to both individuals and society. ''If your
only goal is to make as much money as possible, you should study engineering,
computer science, biology or business,'' he said. ''But most people are
interested in more than just making money.''

So, for the benefit of those people, I asked Mr. Rothwell to do a ranking that
deleted the curriculum component and identified the highest ''value added''
colleges regardless of major. I'm calling this the Brookings-Common Sense
ranking. Here's the top 10:

1. Colgate University

2. Carleton College

3. Washington and Lee University

4. Westmont College

5. Kenyon College

6. Wagner College

7. Marietta College

8. Manhattan College

9. St. Mary's University

10. Pacific Lutheran University

Under this methodology, liberal arts schools like Colgate and Carleton shot up
the rankings. No Ivy League schools made the top 20 on this list, suggesting
that many of those students have an edge heading into college. The
highest-ranked Ivy was Brown, at No.45. And most of the engineering and
technical schools, even M.I.T. and Caltech, stripped of their curricular
weighting, plummeted. (I studied history and French at DePauw University, a
liberal arts college, which ranked No.19.)

The bottom line is that no ranking system or formula can really answer the
question of what college a student should attend. Getting into a highly
selective, top-ranked college may confer bragging rights, status and
connections, but it doesn't necessarily contribute to a good education or
lifelong success, financial or otherwise.

The obsession with college rankings and graduates' earnings ''is just the most
recent example of a larger phenomenon, which is that the gathering of numerical
information acts as a kind of wish fulfillment,'' Professor Muller said. ''If
you have enough metrics and benchmarks, somehow people believe that's going to
solve a major problem. It rarely does.''

CORRECTION:

As published in the International New York Times

The Common Sense column on Oct. 3, about the Obama administration's College
Scorecard ranking tool, described one data point incorrectly. It measures
students' median earnings 10 years after entering an institution, regardless of
whether the student subsequently graduated. It does not measure the median
earnings of graduates only.

Wednesday, October 21, 2015

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              587 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            September 1, 2006 Friday
                                  Main Edition

Morehouse loses top spot;
Black Enterprise's list cites low graduation rates

BYLINE: ANDREA JONES; Staff

SECTION: METRO NEWS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 394 words


Morehouse College dropped dramatically on a college rankings list in Black
Enterprise magazine that hit the newsstands this week, tumbling 44 spots in the
list of the top 50 colleges for African-American students.

The Atlanta college, ranked No. 1 for the past two of the biennial rankings,
fell to No. 45 on the latest list, in part, the magazine said, because of its
comparatively low graduation rates.

Florida A&M University in Tallahassee earned the top spot. Spelman College
ranked fifth. Clark Atlanta University fell out of the top 50 for the first time
since the rankings were published in 1999.

This year, the magazine surveyed more than 500 African-American education
professionals who rated the schools based on their black student graduation
rates, academic and social environments, total black undergraduate enrollment,
percentage of black undergrads and 2004 ranking.

Other Georgia schools making the list were Georgia State University, which was
No. 18, and Emory University, No. 37.

Tanisha A. Sykes, consumer affairs editor at Black Enterprise, said the magazine
cast a wider net of education professionals this year and changed its criteria,
giving graduation rates the highest priority.

Sykes said Morehouse's graduation rate fell from 56 percent to 49 percent in the
time frame the magazine used to determine rankings. By comparison, Spelman's
graduation rate was 77 percent, Sykes said.

Morehouse Provost David Taylor said the magazine compared "apples to oranges."
Graduation rates among African-American males are lower than those among women,
Taylor said in a letter about the rankings slip sent this week to faculty and
staff.

"Currently, for every one African-American male in college, there are two
African-American females, and the graduation rate for African-American females
is significantly higher than for African-American males," he wrote.

"We're not disappointed; we're just confused," he said in an interview Thursday.

"If you look at some of that data of why some made the cut and some didn't, the
debate will probably go on indefinitely."

TOP COLLEGES FOR AFRICAN-AMERICANS

1. ..Florida A&M

2. ..Howard University

3. ..North Carolina A&T University

4. ..Harvard University

5. ..Spelman College

6. ..Hampton University

7. ..Stanford University

8. ..Columbia University

9. ..University of Pennsylvania

10...Wesleyan University

Source: Black Enterprise

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: W.A. BRIDGES JR. / StaffMorehouse College fell from No. 1 to No.
45 in Black Enterprise magazine's ranking of top colleges for African-American
students.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2006 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              588 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Tribune-Review (Greensburg, PA)

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday

St. Vincent ranked high on list of best colleges

BYLINE: Tribune-Review

LENGTH: 160 words


Forbes magazine has once again listed St. Vincent College among the top colleges
in the nation in the release of its fourth annual ranking of America's Best
Colleges.

"St. Vincent College is pleased to be included in the rankings again in this
rating of American colleges," said Benedictine Brother Norman W. Hipps, the
college's president. "With 650 of the accredited post-secondary institutions in
the United States selected for inclusion on the list, St. Vincent is, in Forbes'
judgment, among the top 20 percent of all undergraduate colleges and
universities in the nation."

Forbes uses more than 10 factors in compiling the rankings.

The factors that are considered in the rankings include student satisfaction,
postgraduate success, student debt, four-year graduation rate and competitive
awards.

Ten percent of the ranking is based on alumni listings in Who's Who in America.
An additional 15 percent is based on the salaries of alumni from Payscale.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              589 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             August 20, 1999 Friday

CARLETON, BETHEL CLIMB IN U.S. NEWS COLLEGE RANKS

BYLINE: Judith Yates Borger, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 133 words


Two Minnesota colleges rose in the U.S. News & World Report 2000 ranking of
colleges and universities, released Thursday.

Carleton College, in Northfield, Minn., rose from ninth in 1999 rankings to
eighth in 2000 rankings among national liberal arts colleges. Bethel College, in
Arden Hills, rose from ninth to eighth among Midwestern liberal arts colleges.,
U.S. News evaluates schools based on 11 criteria, including academic reputation,
freshmen retention rate and student-faculty ratio.

U.S. News ranks the top 50 national universities, then groups those below the
top 50 in tiers, starting with Tier 2. The University of Minnesota again ranked
in the second tier for national universities.

The magazine goes on sale Tuesday, and the rankings will be online at
www.usnews.com .

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See microfilm for complete graphic.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: PIONEER PRESS
COLLEGE RANKINGS

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              590 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 5, 2013 Thursday

Canisius Graduates Among Highest Paid

LENGTH: 207  words

DATELINE: Buffalo


Canisius College has issued the following news release:

Canisius College is among the top 20 schools in Upstate New York to have the
highest paid graduates, according to annual rankings issued by PayScale, a
salary research firm. Canisius placed 20th out of 46 Upstate colleges and
universities. Canisius graduates have a mid-career median salary of $75,700.

PayScale analyzed the earning potential of graduates from 1,058 U.S. colleges
and universities, including 46 schools located within the Upstate New York
counties. The firm estimated the mid-career median salary for adults with
degrees from each school, based on survey responses from graduates.

In a separate but similar ranking, Affordable Colleges Online (ACO) listed
Canisius among the top 36 most affordable Roman Catholic colleges whose
graduates earn high starting salaries. AffordableCollegesOnline provides
prospective college students and their parents with information and resources to
help them manage the cost of obtaining an education.

The quality of a Canisius College education is consistently recognized by
respected publications and college ranking lists. Click here to view more recent
rankings and distinctions.

For more information please visit: http://www.canisius.edu.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              591 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday

New York Times reportedly entering the college-rating field

LENGTH: 371  words

DATELINE: Long Beach


California State University has issued the following news release:

The New York Times is reportedly about to wade into the college-rating field, as
higher education leaders await the latest version of the closely watched annual
rankings from U.S. News and World Report.

The Times will soon unveil "a new ranking of colleges and universities based on
their ability to attract underprivileged kids," according to a report last week
in The Chronicle of Higher Education.

The target publication date appeared to be the eve of the U.S. News release of
its 2014-2015 ranking of top colleges. The U.S. News analysis, which during the
past three decades has become an annual occasion for bragging and complaining in
higher education circles, is scheduled for publication Tuesday.

Pre-publication details about the Times project are sparse. An editor overseeing
it, David Leonhardt, told The Chronicle the project will not try "to compete
with the various 'best school' rankings out there." Leonhardt did not respond to
e-mail and telephone messages seeking comment Friday afternoon.

The U.S. government also aims to become a player in rating colleges. The Obama
administration plans to release a draft college-rating system this fall based on
measures of value and access. Forbes magazine ranks colleges for their "return
on investment," using metrics that aim to gauge student satisfaction,
post-graduate success and other goals. Washington Monthly ranks colleges based
on how much they "do for the country," using measures of public service,
research and access for low-income students. The Princeton Review and others
also publish rankings and ratings of colleges from a plethora of angles.

"There's room for a lot of interpretation of these institutions," Brian Kelly,
editor of U.S. News, said Friday. "Having a few different kinds of rankings is
not a bad thing."

Paul Glastris, editor in chief of the Monthly, said he welcomes the Times effort
if it draws more attention to how much colleges try to help economically
disadvantaged students succeed. "If that's the case, that's fantastic," Glastris
said. "Good for them."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              592 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             April 4, 2017 Tuesday

Top 50: Only one varsity from state

SECTION: KOCHI

LENGTH: 347 words


Kochi: Only one state university from Kerala made it to the top 50 educational
institutions in India, in a countrywide government ranking of educational
institutions released on Monday.Kerala University is ranked 47, ahead of the
much-in-demand Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Kozhikode that is ranked 85
and Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology at 56, in the National
Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2017. The topmost education institution
in the country is Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore.NIRF ranks the
institutions based on five parameters: Teaching, learning and resources,
research and professional practices, graduation outcomes, outreach and
inclusivity perception. The ranking, which is an annual exercise, was done by an
independent and autonomous body National Board of Accreditation (NBA).It looked
at the number of faculty members with PhD, students employed through campus
placement and their median salary besides patents and earnings from it. They
also considered facilities for the physically challenged such as lifts and
ramps, walking aids and specially designed toilets.Besides overall ranking of
institutions, separate rankings has also been worked out for six categories of
institutions: Engineering, management, pharmacy, universities and colleges.
Amongst the colleges, it is mostly the autonomous colleges from the state that
find place in the top 50 list in India.

Christ College, Thrissur leads at 17, followed by Rajagiri College of Social
Sciences, Ernakulam at 25 and Sacred Heart College, Ernakulam at rank 28. Other
state colleges to figure in the top 50 in the general degree category are St
Joseph's College, Calicut (31), St Joseph's College, Thrissur (42), Mercy
College, Palakkad (48) and Little Flower College, Thrissur (49). This is the
first time the colleges have been ranked.When it comes to universities, Kerala
University ranks at 29 followed by Indian Institute of Space Science and
Technology at 35. Not a single pharmacy college from the state made it to the
top 50 list.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              593 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                The Citizens' Voice (Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           September 8, 2015 Tuesday

King's College's community service recognized

BYLINE: Michael P. Buffer, The Citizens' Voice, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 334 words


Sept. 08--King's College is ranked 114th out of 673 institutions that issue
master's degrees in a national ranking from Washington Monthly magazine.

It's the highest ranking among institutions based in Luzerne County.
Misericordia University is ranked 255th. Wilkes University is ranked 442nd.

Other institutions from Northeastern Pennsylvania are on the list. The
University of Scranton is ranked at 72. Marywood University is ranked 204th.
Bloomsburg University is 387th. East Stroudsburg University is at 563

The list from the September/October issue of Washington Monthly magazine and was
based on three factors -- social mobility, service and research.

King's is ranked ninth nationally in the master's degree category for community
service participation and hours served. During the 2012-2013 academic year,
King's students combined for almost 180,000 service hours.

Misericordia is 23rd in the community service ranking. Marywood is 33rd. The
University of Scranton is at 67. Another Washington Monthly list ranks
institutions in the Northeast U.S. that are the best value for your money based
on "net" price, how well they do graduating students they admit, and whether
those students go on to earn at least enough to pay off their loans.

Penn State Wilkes-Barre is ranked 11th of the 402 institutions on that "Best
Bang for the Buck" list. It's the highest ranking among the institutions from
Northeastern Pennsylvania.

Misericordia is 222nd overall among master's degree-granting colleges and
universities in the nation in the "Best Bang for the Buck" category. It's the
highest ranking among the private colleges and universities in Luzerne County.
Of the 673 colleges and universities recognized in the broader annual rankings,
402 were recognized on that "Best Bang for the Buck" list.

mbuffer@citizensvoice.com

570-821-2073, @cvmikebuffer

___ (c)2015 The Citizens' Voice (Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) Visit The Citizens' Voice
(Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) at citizensvoice.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150908-YC-King-s-College-s-community-service-recognized-0908-20150908

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YC


                       Copyright 2015 The Citizens' Voice


                              594 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Blade (Toledo, Ohio)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            August 29, 2015 Saturday

Report lists Lourdes as 1 of best in Midwest

BYLINE: Brian Buckey, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 472 words


Aug. 29--Lourdes University is one of the best colleges in the Midwest according
to the Princeton Review, which lists the college among its "Best in the Midwest"
recommended schools.

The report, which was released this month, identified its top 159 Midwestern
colleges based on data the company collected from its survey of administrators
and the perspectives of college counselors and advisers whose opinions the
company solicits.

Student feedback was also a factor. Students were asked to rate their own
schools and answered questions about themselves, their peers, and campus life.

"It is an honor for Lourdes to receive this prestigious recognition," Lourdes
President David Livingston said. "This is the 12th consecutive year that Lourdes
has been named a Best College in the Midwest. As a private university in the
northwest Ohio region, Lourdes prides itself on providing a values-centered
education to its students that prepares them for personal and professional
success."

The Princeton publication does not give rankings, but rather an overall list.
Rankings were given, though, in a recent Forbes list of "America's Top Colleges,
" which ranked Bowling Green State University at 614 and the University of
Toledo at 629 out of 650 ranked colleges nationwide.

According to Forbes, what distinguishes its rankings from others is "our belief
in output over input."

For the list, Forbes partnered with the Washington-based Center for College
Affordability and Productivity.

The rankings considered 12 factors that fall into five general categories:
student satisfaction (weighted at 25 percent), postgraduate success (32.5
percent), student debt (25 percent), graduation rate (7.5 percent), and academic
success (10 percent).

UT hopes for improvement in the rankings in the future.

"Since the beginning of her tenure on July 1, UT President Sharon Gaber has
identified raising the reputation and profile of The University of Toledo on the
national stage as one of her primary goals," UT spokesman Jon Strunk said. "UT
has incredible areas of academic strength and we haven't always been the best at
communicating that excellence. In the coming years, UT will be improving
retention and graduation rates, advancing research and the recruitment of
faculty, and increasing philanthropy for student scholarships and academic
programs. We anticipate improved rankings will be a natural outgrowth of that
success."

A BGSU spokesman said the university could not comment on the rankings until
further looking into the methodology.

The top school on the list is Pomona College in California, while the top ranked
school in Ohio is Oberlin College at 46.

Contact Brian Buckey at: bbuckey@theblade.com or 419-376-9414.

___ (c)2015 The Blade (Toledo, Ohio) Visit The Blade (Toledo, Ohio) at
www.toledoblade.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150829-TO-Report-lists-Lourdes-as-1-of-best-in-Midwest-0829-20150829

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TO


                            Copyright 2015 The Blade


                              595 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            August 26, 2006 Saturday

Area colleges fare well in rankings;
Loras moves up 4 slots;
Clarke remains among best values, according to magazine

BYLINE: MADELIN FUERSTE

SECTION: TRISTATE; Pg. a3

LENGTH: 457 words


The 2007 US News and World Report college rankings are in and several tri-state
schools were, again, featured prominently.

The news magazine analyzes data in numerous statistical categories to come up
with the rankings for more than 1,400 accredited colleges and universities.

Graduation rate, freshman retention, faculty-to-student ratio, and financial and
alumni resources are a few of the categories that play a significant role.

Loras College moved from No. 29 in last year's list of comprehensive Midwestern
colleges to No. 25 this year. It tied with Northland College in Ashland, Wis.,
and Northwestern College in St. Paul, Minn.

Loras President Jim Collins describes the move as an exciting accomplishment.

"We know this is one tool among many that students, parents and the public use
as a lens into who you are and what you are doing," Collins said. "We also know
we have more work to do. But, when you think about it, in this category there
are over 300 colleges and universities so it does begin to come into
perspective."

Clarke College was, again, ranked in the "Great School at Great Prices" category
in the Midwest. Clarke was among 10 schools in the value category.

Clarke President Sister Joanne Burrows said the ranking is important as families
struggle with the rising cost of higher education.

"We understand that students and families make a significant investment to
attend college," Burrows said.

"At Clarke, we strive to ensure the highest quality education while being
reasonably priced. This recognition reaffirms our success in both excellence and
affordability."

Clarke moved from 24th to 31st in the comprehensive-bachelor's category for
Midwestern schools.

The University of Dubuque ranked 75th in the Midwest in the category for best
schools to earn a master's degree.

UD official Peter Smith said turmoil in the school's past still plays a role in
today's rankings.

The University of Dubuque is on its way up in enrollment, faculty and finances
after reaching an all-time low in those same categories during the mid- to late
1990s, he said.

"We saw 1999 as a very rough year for us. The US News rankings work on a
six-year graduation rate average, and we knew that would have an impact," Smith
said.

"We just keep working through it. We feel like we keep making good, steady
progress."

UD was ranked 71st in the same category last year.

The University of Northern Iowa ranked 18th and the University of
Wisconsin-Platteville was 55th in best schools to earn a master's degree in the
Midwest.

The Princeton Review also recently released its 2007 Best 361 Colleges rankings.

One well-known category named University of Wisconsin-Madison the country's
fourth-best party school, and the University of Iowa was ninth in the same
category.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              596 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                September 13, 1995 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

U HOLDS OWN IN COLLEGE RANKING;
15 PROGRAMS AMONG TOP 20

BYLINE: BYLINE: NANCY LIVINGSTON, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 359 words


The University of Minnesota managed to hold its own in the long-awaited rankings
of more than 3,600 graduate programs at 274 universities across the country.

In its first assessment report since 1982, the National Research Council said
the University of Minnesota still has the No. 1 chemical engineering program in
the country. Based on data from 1993, the university has five programs ranked
among the top 10 in the country compared to six programs in that category in
1982.

University programs that now rank among the top 10 in the country are chemical
engineering, geography, psychology, mechanical engineering and economics.
Political science dropped out of the top 10, ranking 13th.

Looking at the top 20 rankings, the university now has 15 in that category
compared to 10 programs in 1982.

The National Research Council Study basically compares the quality of faculty at
the various schools. The study is more highly regarded in the academic community
than the annual rankings of colleges done by magazines such as U.S. News and
World Report.

Study findings are used by graduate students looking for the best programs in
the country, professors looking for jobs and administrators trying to figure out
what departments deserve more money. Since excellent graduate programs are
usually linked to quality undergraduate programs, the findings also may be used
by students deciding which college to attend.

Mark Brenner, head of graduate programs at the university, said the most
significant slip pointed out in the study was in the computer science
department, which sank from a ranking of 19 out of 58 departments surveyed to 47
out of 107 departments.

"That was a troubled department in the 1980s," said Brenner. "We had significant
faculty turnover. Now we have a new department head and some very competent new
hires. We think this department is turning around just the way electrical
engineering is turning around."

Electrical engineering went from a ranking of 19 out of 91 programs to 18 out of
126.

"The university has held its own," said Brenner. "There were no spectacular
increases, but no big slippages, either."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphic: Pioneer Press
University of Minnesota's top programs
The first new ranking of research and doctorate programs across the United
States since 1982 puts the University of Minnesota among the top 20 in these
programs.
Source: National Research Council
[See microfilm for complete graphic.]

TYPE: EDUCATION//Rating colleges

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              597 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Reboot Illinois

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 19, 2014 Friday

Top Illinois graduate schools as ranked by U.S. News and World Report

BYLINE: Brendan Bond, Reboot Illinois

SECTION: NATIONAL POLITICAL NEWS

LENGTH: 818 words


Sept. 19--Along with ranking undergraduate programs at National Universities,
National Liberal Arts Colleges, Regional Universities, and Regional Colleges,
U.S. News and World Report's 2015 rankings included rankings for graduate
programs in six different categories: business schools, education schools,
engineering schools, law schools and medical schools in both research and
primary care.

While there is a limited number of Illinois universities that would be ranked
for graduate programs (liberal arts colleges such as Knox College or Augustana
College don't offer graduate programs), Illinois is still well represented,
especially in the business school ranking where two Illinois universities appear
in the top 10.

The Illinois schools ranked in each category by U.S. News and World Report are
listed below, along with their overall rank, their enrollment and their location
if it is different from the university's main campus. The titles of each
category are linked to the full rankings from U.S. News and World Report.

Best Business schools

http://reboot.rebootillinois.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/MBA-Meme-
e1411064113639.jpg

1. University of Chicago (Booth) (4th)

--Full-time tuition: $58,760

2. Northwestern University (Kellogg) (6th)

--Full-time tuition: $59,085

3. University of Illinois -- Urbana-Champaign (tie 35th)

--Full-time tuition: $19,975 (in-state); $29,976 (out-of-state)

4. DePaul University (Kellstadt) (tie 85th)

--Full-time tuition: $980/credit

5. University of Illinois -- Chicago (Liautaud) (tie 92nd)

--Full-time tuition: $19,766 (in-state); $31,764 (out-of-state)

Best Education schools

http://reboot.rebootillinois.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/grad-scho
ol-meme.jpg

1. Northwestern University (tie 11th)

--Full-time tuition: $45,120

2. University of Illinois -- Urbana-Champaign (tie 26th)

--Full-time tuition: $11,626 (in-state); $25,118 (out-of-state)

3. University of Illinois -- Chicago (tie 42nd)

--Full-time tuition: $11,066 (in-state); $23,064 (out-of-state)

4. Southern Illinois University -- Carbondale (tie 77th)

--Full-time tuition: $1,115/credit (in-state); $1,706/credit (out-of-state)

5. (tie) Illinois State University (tie 106th)

--Full-time tuition: $345/credit (in-state); $716/credit (out-of-state)

5. (tie) Loyola University Chicago (tie 106th)

--Full-time tuition: $930/credit

7. DePaul University (tie 147th)

--Full-time tuition: $595/credit

Best Engineering Schools

http://reboot.rebootillinois.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/Engineeri
ng-school-meme.jpg

1. University of Illinois -- Urbana-Champaign (tie 6th)

--Full-time tuition: $16,754 (in-state); $30,246 (out-of-state)

2. Northwestern University (McCormick) (tie 22nd)

--Full-time tuition: $45,120

3. University of Illinois -- Chicago (tie 63rd)

--Full-time tuition: $13,966 (in-state); $25,964 (out-of-state)

4. Illinois Institute of Technology (Armour) (tie 71st)

--Full-time tuition: $1,204/credit

Best Law schools

http://reboot.rebootillinois.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/Marshall-
law.gif

1. University of Chicago (tie 4th)

--Full-time tuition: $53,301

2. Northwestern University (12th)

--Full-time tuition: $55,064

3. University of Illinois -- Urbana-Champaign (tie 40th)

--Full-time tuition: $41,226 (in-state); $48,976 (out-of-state)

4. Loyola University Chicago (tie 68th)

--Full-time tuition: $41,666

5. Illinois Institute of Technology (Chicago-Kent) (tie 72nd)

--Full-time tuition: $44,410

6. DePaul University (tie 121st)

--Full-time tuition: $44,999

Best Medical schools: Research

http://reboot.rebootillinois.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/med-stude
nt-e1411065641197.jpg

1. University of Chicago (Pritzker) (11th)

--Full-time tuition: $45,835

2. Northwestern University (Feinberg) (18th)

--Chicago, Ill.

--Full-time tuition: $50,272

3. University of Illinois (tie 52nd)

--Chicago, Ill.

--Full-time tuition: $34,578 (in-state); $71,578 (out-of-state)

4. Rush University (tie 68th)

--Full-time tuition: $49,700

Best Medical schools: Primary Care

1. Northwestern University (Feinberg) (tie 22nd)

--Chicago, Ill.

--Full-time tuition: $50,272

2. University of Chicago (Pritzker) (tie 26th)

--Full-time tuition: $45,835

3. University of Illinois (tie 82nd)

--Chicago, Ill.

--Full-time tuition: $34,578 (in-state); $71,578 (out-of-state)

Brendan Bond is a staff writer at Reboot Illinois. He is a graduate of Loyola
University, where he majored in journalism. Brendan takes a look each day at the
Land of Lincoln Lowdown and it's often pretty low. He examines the property tax
rates that drive Illinoisans insane. You can find Reboot on Facebook and on
Twitter @rebootillinois.

Reboot Illinois is a nonpartisan website and social media effort dedicated to
involving Illinoisans in the key issues facing our state, including state debt,
corruption and waste and improving business and schools.

___ (c)2014 Reboot Illinois Visit Reboot Illinois at www.rebootillinois.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20140919-2IL-Top-Illinois-graduate-schools-as-ranked-by-U-S-News-and-World-Repor
t-0919-20140919

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 2IL


                                 Copyright 2014


                              598 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

Doane College Ranked Among Best Liberal Arts Colleges in Nation and First in
Nebraska by Washington Monthly

LENGTH: 246  words

DATELINE: Lincoln


Doane College has issued the following news release:

After being named a top national liberal arts college last week by U.S.News &
World Report, Doane College is again in the rankings listed among the best
liberal arts colleges in the nation and the top Nebraska college in Washington
Monthly's 2013 Liberal Arts College Rankings.

Doane College ranks 58th out of 255 of the best liberal arts colleges in the
nation.

According to Washington Monthly's College Guide, the schools are rated on "their
contribution to the public good in three broad categories: Social Mobility
(recruiting and graduating low-income students), Research (producing
cutting-edge scholarship and PhDs), and Service (encouraging students to give
something back to their country)."

Doane also ranked 22nd among all liberal arts college and 144th among all
colleges and universities nationwide in in Washington Monthly's 2013 Best Bang
for the Buck Rankings.

This ranking list is "based on the economic value students receive per dollar."
The guide calls it an exclusive list of colleges that do a great job of helping
non-wealthy students earn affordable and marketable degrees. Only 349 colleges
and universities made it on the best-bang-for-the-buck schools list.

Two other organizations have recognized Doane College this year. Forbes.com
named Doane one of "America's Top Colleges" and The Princeton Review named Doane
among the "Best in the Midwest."

For more information please visit: http://www.doane.edu.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              599 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 14, 2017 Thursday

Marietta remains in Top 10 of U.S. News' annual rankings

LENGTH: 321  words



Columbus: Marietta College has issued the following news release:
Marietta College placed eighth among Best Regional Colleges in the 2018 U.S.
News & World Report survey, released today.


Marietta, which shared the No. 8 spot last year with Dordt College, is tied with
the Iowa school again. Each have overall scores of 83.
This is the 33rd consecutive year Marietta has made the Top 10 list. Overall,
there were 80 colleges included in the Midwest rankings. When compared to other
regional rankings, Marietta's overall score of 83 would put it No. 3 in the
South, No. 4 in the North and No. 7 in the West.
If you combined all of the regions together, which ranks 240 colleges and
universities, Marietta would be tied for 19th overall.
"Marietta continues to shine as one of the best private, liberal arts colleges
in the country," said Steve Lazowski, Vice President for Enrollment Management.
"It is always rewarding to see such esteemed publications like U.S. News & World
Report recognize our excellence in providing students a quality contemporary
liberal arts degree at an extraordinary value."
The rankings help prospective students and their families obtain a glimpse of
the relative quality of each college and university. That quality is based on 15
indicators of academic excellence, according to U.S. News & World Report's
ranking explanation. Those indicators include first-year student retention
numbers, graduation rates and quality of faculty, among other metrics. Each of
those factors is weighted, and then the college is ranked against peer
institutions based on the composite weighted score.
Three areas Marietta excels in are Percent of Classes under 20 students (79
percent), Average Alumni Giving Rate (17 percent) and Freshmen in top 25 percent
of high school class (53 percent).
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              600 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                          September 14, 2016 Wednesday

OU Business School earns high marks

BYLINE: From staff reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 309 words


The Undergraduate Business Program at the University of Oklahoma's Michael F.
Price College of Business earned a top 50 ranking this week from U.S. News &amp;
World Report.U.S. News &amp; World Report named the Price College undergraduate
program in the No. 48 on its list of "Best Undergraduate Business Programs." The
ranking represents a significant jump from the college's previous ranking of No.
61.Two of Price College's specialty programs, Entrepreneurship (No. 23) and
International Business (No. 24), were ranked in the Top 25 nationally. This
marks the 12th consecutive year the International Business program has been
ranked by U.S. News &amp; World Report.The undergraduate program's recent top 50
ranking from U.S. News &amp; World Report is just one of 25 nationally-ranked
programs at the Price College of Business.Making impact in state, nation"OU's
business faculty, staff, students, alumni and private sector collaborators are
making an impact here in Oklahoma and across the nation," said Daniel W. Pullin,
dean of the Price College of Business. "The entire Price College community
should be commended for their tireless efforts to prepare our students as the
business leaders we need to move Oklahoma and the nation forward."While rankings
success will never exhaustively define the importance of our work, OU's rapid
climb is a testament to Price College's national recognition as one of the great
business schools in the country," Pullin said.Established in 1928, the Price
College of Business is OU's second-largest college, educating more than 4,000
students through undergraduate, master, executive and doctoral programs across
six academic divisions in accounting, entrepreneurship and economic development,
finance, management and international business, management information systems
and marketing and supply chain management.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              601 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Daily Item (Sunbury, Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             August 4, 2015 Tuesday

Review puts Bucknell fourth on party list

BYLINE: Evamarie Socha, The Daily Item, Sunbury, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 564 words


Aug. 04--By Evamarie Socha

The Daily Item

LEWISBURG -- Bucknell University is the No. 4 party school in the nation,
according to the Princeton Review's 2015 ranking of the top 20 party schools,
released Monday.

The Lewisburg college is up five notches from its No. 9 spot in the 2014 list
and the only Pennsylvania school in the top 10, according to the annual ranking
from the test preparation and college admission services company.

Even if the students know how to party, other information shows they also know
how to study: 35 percent of Bucknell students have a grade point average 3.75 or
higher, according to Princeton Review. Twenty-four percent have GPAs between 3.5
and 3.74, and 25 percent have GPAs between 3.25 and 3.49.

Schools making the party ranks generally don't favor the recognition. "Bucknell
is among the many institutions and media outlets critical of these rankings and
the questionable methodology by which they're created," university spokesman
Andy Hirsch said Monday.

For example, Bucknell officials don't know, and The Princeton Review won't
divulge, how many Bucknell students participated in the survey or what class
years they are from.

"The reality is we see this and similar 'rankings' for what they are: A way for
The Princeton Review to generate attention and help boost sales of its annual
college guide," Hirsch said.

The list is part of Princeton Review's publishing of its new "Best 380 Colleges"
book. Rankings are determined through a survey administered to 136,000 students
at 380 top colleges to produce 62 different lists, the Associated Press
reported. Students are asked 80 questions about their school's academics,
administration, student body and themselves.

Bucknell also came in at No. 1 for Greek life, according to the school's entry.
Other rankings include No. 21 for best alumni network, No. 17 for most beautiful
campus and No. 41 for "colleges that pay you back."

The collection of lists, publisher Robert Franek said, is meant to paint a
picture of campus life using students' answers to a long series of questions to
create profiles, as well as lists for things such as partying, dorm life,
sports, political persuasions and more.

"We have such a high regard for each of the 380 schools," Franek said. The
review is not affiliated with Princeton University of New Jersey.

Hirsch said Bucknell does recognize, "independent of the annual 'ranking,' that
high-risk alcohol consumption is a problem, as it is on college campuses across
the country. We dedicate significant time, money and energy trying to address
that and other high-risk behavior.

"The bottom line is that we're concerned about and focused on our students'
well-being, not where we're listed on what is, for all intents and purposes, an
arbitrary ranking," he said.

Other Pennsylvania schools in the top 20 fell in their rankings. Lehigh
University comes in at No. 11, down from No. 6 last year. Penn State University
also dropped from its No. 7 in 2014 to No. 13 this year.

The University of Illinois took the party-school crown this year, according to
the ranks, switching spots with last year's No. 1, Syracuse University. The New
York school now occupies Illinois' former No. 5 slot.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

___ (c)2015 The Daily Item (Sunbury, Pa.) Visit The Daily Item (Sunbury, Pa.) at
www.dailyitem.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150804-DN-Review-puts-Bucknell-fourth-on-party-list-0804-20150804

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DN


                         Copyright 2015 The Daily Item


                              602 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     October 2, 2013 Wednesday 9:11 PM GMT

Trinity falls further down rankings

SECTION: REPUBLIC OF IRELAND

LENGTH: 496 words


Trinity College Dublin has plunged further down the rankings of the world's best
universities.

While it remains the top-ranked third-level institution in the country, its
reputation is waning as rivals University College Dublin (UCD) and University
College Cork (UCC) climb up the league table.

Phil Baty, editor of Times Higher Education Rankings, said Trinity's slip in
standards should send out a warning signal.

"Trinity College Dublin's decline should be cause for alarm," he said.

"When the national flagship falls, it can affect the standing of the rest of the
country.

"However, at least University College Dublin and University College Cork both
had strong years."

Last year, Trinity was ranked 110th in the list of the world's top seats of
learning, a year after falling out of the top 100.

But in the latest Times Higher Education rankings, it has nose-dived further
down to 129th place.

Over the same period, UCD has climbed from 187th place to 161st and UCC has
jumped from between 301st and 350th to between 276th and 300th.

NUI Galway remains in the range between 301st and 350th while NUI Maynooth makes
no change in its place between 351st and 400th.

California Institute of Technology holds on to the world number one spot for the
third year in a row, followed by Harvard University and Oxford, which are tied
for second place.

Ranking compilers said the drop in place for Trinity was in line with an
"alarming" drop in standards across Europe, as top universities in Germany,
France, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Russia, Belgium and Austria all fell down
the league.

"The power shift from West to East is not as dramatic this year as the US and
the UK have both managed to arrest alarming falls at the national level," said
Mr Baty.

"But the trend is continuing: the vast majority of continental Europe's leading
institutions have slipped, while those leading the East Asian nations have for
the most part risen yet again."

Last month, a separate league table, the annual QS World University Rankings,
put Trinity as the 61st best university in the world, up from 67th the previous
year.

UCD dropped eight places to 131st while UCC slipped outside the top 200,
dropping 20 places to 210th in the same poll.

Professor Vinny Cahill, Trinity's dean of research, said the university's drop
in the latest rankings should be a wake-up call for higher education in Ireland.

"Although Trinity's score in the QS World University Rankings rose to 61 in the
world last month, this latest result for the university shows that we have work
to do to ensure that Irish students can continue to avail of an internationally
competitive higher education without the need to emigrate," he said.

"Trinity's ranking underlines the need for more sustained public investment in
higher education.

"It is important for Ireland, not just for Trinity. Trinity, in partnership with
Government, should work together in a co-investment arrangement to foster the
renewal of Ireland's society and economy."

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              603 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday

Measuring What?

LENGTH: 1767  words

DATELINE: Long Beach


California State University has issued the following news release:

The New York Times kicked off its higher education conference here Monday night
by releasing what it called a "revolutionary college index" that ranks
institutions that enroll students from low-income backgrounds.
The rankings are derived from a formula based on the proportion of
undergraduates who receive Pell Grants and the net price (what students actually
pay as opposed to sticker price) paid by those with family incomes of $30,000 to
$48,000. But the Times applied this formula only to institutions with a
four-year graduation rate of at least 75 percent. That's a bar that only about
100 colleges meet, and all but three of them are private institutions. (The full
Times methodology may be found here.)

So while the leading three (Vassar College, Grinnell College and the University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill) are all institutions that don't normally top
the likes of Harvard University (ranked sixth), they are also not institutions
that serve as many low-income students as many public institutions that don't
meet the 75 percent standard. Of the 100 colleges in the Times rankings, the top
percentage of Pell-eligible students is 25 -- at Susquehanna University. (The
full list of colleges, in order, may be found here.)
Vassar President on "This Week"
Catharine Bond Hill, president of Vassar, will discuss the new rankings on "This
Week," Inside Higher Ed's free weekly news podcast. Sign up here to be notified
of new podcasts.
But consider some of the public institutions that weren't ranked. For example,
the University of California at Berkeley, which just misses the four-year cutoff
(71 percent), has more than 27 percent of its students on Pell Grants, a larger
percentage than any that were ranked and about twice the rates of Dartmouth
College and Duke University, which made the list. (And Berkeley's student body
is much larger than that of most of the colleges in the new ranking, such that
its Pell students have typically been close in number to the combined total for
the eight Ivy League institutions.)
Baruch College of the City University of New York has a lower four-year rate (39
percent) so it too was excluded, yet its percentage of Pell students is 46
percent -- twice that of Vassar. The Times also did not find any historically
black colleges that met its standard, although those institutions are strongly
committed to serving low-income students. Spelman College, where 70 percent
graduate in four years, also has 46 percent of its students receiving Pell
Grants. And these colleges don't include community colleges and other
open-access institutions, many of which are majority Pell-eligible. (All the
figures in this paragraph and the proceeding one for institutions not ranked by
the Times come from the U.S. Department of Education's College Navigator site.)
In introducing the new rankings, David Leonhardt, managing editor of The Upshot
column of the Times, acknowledged that there were no perfect measures and hinted
that the Times might in the future examine more institutions. Bernie Machen,
president of the University of Florida, was on a panel here to discuss the
rankings, and he quipped that the newspaper might find many interesting things
"if you ever get down to the real world" of institutions that don't have 75
percent four-year graduation rates.
Leonhardt said that it was important to note that among the colleges that were
ranked, there was wide variation in how they fared, and that this variation
wasn't entirely related to wealth. Susquehanna, for example, outperforms
institutions for which its endowment would be a rounding error. And the Times
rankings draw attention to institutional wealth, listing endowment per student.
Vassar, for example, in coming in first, beats out 27 colleges and universities
on the list with higher endowments per student.
"It's clear that colleges have very different levels of commitment on this
issue," Leonhardt said.
For example, the article he published on the new rankings takes Washington
University in St. Louis to task. "Maybe the starkest example is Washington
University in St. Louis, one of the hot colleges of recent years, having climbed
to No. 14 in the U.S. News rankings last year," he writes. "Only about 6 percent
of the freshman class in recent years at Wash. U., as it's known, have received
Pell Grants, even though it is one of the country's 25 richest colleges on a
per-student basis."
A statement from Washington University late Monday said that the university has
a higher percentage of Pell students this fall (8 percent) than reflected in the
Times rankings, and that the share has been moving up, in part because of
additional aid provided to low-income students. The university is pushing to
raise more money for financial aid, the statement said, with a $400 million
target for such funds in a current campaign.
Speakers here said that institutions needed to spend more on low-income
students. Vassar's 23 percent Pell-eligible student body is nearly double what
it was in 2008. Catharine Bond Hill, president of Vassar, said here that if all
the elite colleges received twice as many eligible applicants from low-income
families next year, she didn't think many would have the resources (or
commitment) to admit them.
She noted that it is a distinct minority of American colleges that are
need-blind. She said that "we have known for a decade" that there are many more
qualified students "out there" than are enrolling at elite colleges. (While Hill
was among those commenting Monday, Leonhardt said that she did not know in
advance how Vassar would fare.)
The reality that the institutions that serve the greatest number of
Pell-eligible students weren't in the rankings bothered some experts (who were
not on the panel here).
"When your peers are doing terribly, doing better than your peers isn't the same
as doing good. The idea that Harvard is 'accessible' to poor people when such a
small number pass its gauntlet for admission to earn the nearly free net price
on a campus where hidden expenses abound -- it's laughable -- is a sure sign of
a flawed methodology," said Sara Goldrick-Rab, director of the Wisconsin HOPE
Lab and professor of educational policy studies and sociology at the University
of Wisconsin at Madison. "This is a set of metrics designed to praise the
wealthy for doing a little philanthropy -- not a set of metrics aimed at helping
spur colleges to become more accessible or affordable. You only win on this
metric by being rich. The New York Times has helped perpetuate inequality. And
it has added absolutely nothing to the college rankings or ratings
conversation."
Paul Glastris, editor in chief of The Washington Monthly, which also ranks
colleges in part on their commitment to low-income students (and many other
factors), had more praise for the effort. "Good for them for doing this," he
said, adding that "it means a lot coming from The New York Times." But he noted
that his magazine's methodology, which lacked the 75 percent four-year bar,
resulted in 9 of the top 20 being public institutions. Further, 6 of his top 11
are at or above Pell proportions of 30 percent.
F. King Alexander, chancellor and president of Louisiana State University, has
written about the need to encourage colleges to admit large numbers of
low-income students. He said that it was "a good first step" for the Times to
encourage elite institutions, but questioned the impact. Alexander was formerly
president of California State University at Long Beach, which when he left had a
60 percent graduation rate and enrolled a student body in which 40 percent were
Pell eligible. That university's 14,000 Pell students exceeded those of the Ivy
League, he said.
Alexander said he would like to see ratings that only include those colleges and
universities that meet some minimum Pell level, such as 20 percent, rather than
only analyzing those with the highest graduation rates. "I think that the 75
percent grad rate kills most of any scale that could make the new index better,"
he said.
The Challenges Facing the Publics
Only three public institutions -- the University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill, the University of Virginia and the College of William and Mary -- made the
Times list. In the discussion here, however, there was more attention paid to
publics, especially to flagships.
Machen of the University of Florida (another public whose 29 percent
Pell-eligible students tops all institutions rated by the Times) talked about
how most of the money given out for financial aid at his university is not based
on need, but on various definitions of merit. He said that state mandates give
him no choice, and that he has been rebuffed by lawmakers when trying to get
more money for need-based aid.
Anthony W. Marx, president of the New York Public Library and former president
of Amherst College, said that, as a nation, "we are busy under-funding and
dismantling our public universities."
And Leonhardt noted that UNC-Chapel Hill -- which fares well in the ranking --
is actually facing criticism for being generous to low-income students. The
University of North Carolina System Board of Governors recently voted to limit
to 15 percent the share of tuition revenue that campuses may spend on financial
aid. Chapel Hill is one of six campuses in the system that currently spend more
than 15 percent of tuition revenue on financial aid.
The new rankings were released at the opening of the Times's Schools for
Tomorrow conference. Inside Higher Ed is a media sponsor of the conference,
meaning that it traded advertising with the Times. But Inside Higher Ed played
no role in the development of the rankings or any conference content.
Those Other Rankings
The Times rankings were released at 6 p.m. Six hours later, U.S. News & World
Report released its rankings, which did not contain surprises. There were no
methodology changes in those rankings this year. The magazine did add
information about campus crime to its database about colleges, but did not
factor those statistics into its rankings.
Even before the new U.S. News figures were out, at least one college was
scrambling to deal with an error. The News-Press reported that Florida Gulf
Coast University found itself unexpectedly on top of the magazine's list of high
debt colleges with an average debt for graduates of $56,208. The real figure is
$21,394, and the error was due to a typo by the university in submitting
information.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              604 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     March 12, 1991, Tuesday, City Edition

FSU (17-3) moves to top in two polls

BYLINE: KEVIN PUNSKY

SECTION: SPORTS; COLLEGE BASEBALL; Pg.  6C

LENGTH: 371 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE



The Florida State Seminoles, 17-3 and winners over previously No. 1-ranked
Arizona State and Louisiana State, have replaced Stanford as the new No. 1 team
in both the Baseball America and Collegiate Baseball-ESPN polls.

    "I'm not superstitious and I don't believe in luck," said coach Mike Martin,
whose Seminoles are riding a seven-game winning streak. "I believe in
opportunities and taking advantage of them."

    The No. 1 ranking is FSU's first since the 1990 preseason.

    "I think the big thing is it's a lot tougher to stay No. 1 than to get
there," Martin said. "Everybody will be shooting at us, but our main  concern is
where we end up.

    "I feel people are going to be after us whether we're ranked ninth or first,
so we might as well be first."

    Miami is ranked eighth by Baseball America and 12th by Collegiate Baseball.
Florida International is 24th in the Baseball America rankings.
 Ga. Tech's Bruce homers
 in 8th consecutive game


   ATLANTA Third baseman Andy Bruce of Georgia Tech has extended his NCAA record
by hitting home runs in eight consecutive games.

    Bruce made it eight in a row Sunday in an 11-5 victory over Rutgers. He also
had three singles and drove in two runs.

    Bruce's homer Sunday, his first of the streak with the bases empty, was his
13th of the season. He has 40 RBI, is hitting .440 and has a slugging percentage
of 1.069.

    He was selected by Oakland in the fifth round of last June's amateur draft
and turned down a $ 55,000 signing bonus.
 Monday games
    Eckerd 6, South Carolina-Aiken 1: Junior rightfielder Jon Mueller hit a
double and a home run, his fifth in four games, and drove in three runs as host
Eckerd (6-9) downed South Carolina-Aiken (12-2). Junior Tim Thielen (3-1) got
the win for the Tritons, pitching eight innings and striking out eight. Eckerd
faces Connecticut today at Eckerd. Game time is 3 p.m.

    Miami 5, George Washington 1: Freshman Silvio Censale walked four and struck
out nine to guide the Hurricanes (8-7-1) to victory over George Washington (
18-6).
 Material from special reports and the Associated Press was used in this
roundup.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              605 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 2, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A different take on college rankings

BYLINE: Mary Beth Marklein, Nanci Hellmich

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 354 words


Public universities fare well in Washington Monthly's annual college rankings,
released today. "Unlike the U.S. News & World Report rankings ... our goal is to
determine what colleges and universities are doing for the country -- by
improving social mobility, producing research and promoting public service,"
says editor Paul Glastris. Its rankings are based on public data, including
percentage of students who qualify for federal Pell Grants, participation in
Reserve Officers' Training Corps and alumni participation in the Peace Corps.
Results differ, too. Stanford is the only school to make the top 10 in both
magazines. Meanwhile, South Carolina State University, considered third-tier by
U.S. News, ranks sixth in Washington Monthly; editors say 71% of students
qualify for federal Pell grants and "an uncommonly large number" participate in
ROTC. The magazine also today launches a website and blog covering higher
education at WashingtonMonthly.com. -- Mary Beth Marklein

Top 10

1. U. of California-Berkeley

2. UC-San Diego

3. UCLA

4. Stanford

5. Texas A&M U.

6. South Carolina State U.

7. Pennsylvania State U.

8. College of William and Mary

9. U. of Texas-Austin

10. UC-Davis

Fiber-rich cereals finally meet taste test

A decade ago, most fiber-rich cereals tasted "more like straw than grain," says
Consumer Reports. But a survey in the magazine's October issue suggests a lot
has changed. Of 18 cereals evaluated by testers, seven were found especially
tasty. The cereals, which can help control weight and lower risk of heart
disease and type 2 diabetes, have 7 to 12 grams of fiber a serving and 140 to
210 calories. Testers rated Kirkland Signature Spiced Pecan cereal (Costco)
"excellent" for its "flavorful blend of toasted grains, fresh nuts, and seeds
with a big cinnamon-and-nutmeg flavor." Others that scored "very good":

*Kashi GoLean Crunchy Fiber Twigs

*Soy Protein Grahams and Honey Puffs

*Archer Farms Cereal High Fiber (Target)

*Kellogg's Raisin Bran Extra!

*Post Shredded Wheat Spoon Size Wheat 'n Bran

*Great Value Raisin Bran (Walmart)

*Barbara's Bakery Ultima Organic

-- Nanci Hellmich

E-mail betterlife@usatoday.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Consumer Reports

DOCUMENT-TYPE: A BETTER LIFE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              606 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday

Bihar edu institutes fail to get national rating

SECTION: PATNA

LENGTH: 376 words


PATNA: Bihar has not found any place of pride in the National Institutional
Ranking Framework (NIRF)-2017 with only the Indian Institute of Technology
(IIT)-Patna making it to the national ranking, but that too slipping from 10th
in 2016 to 19th rank in 2017. Its overall rank is 83.In 2016, Bihar's National
Institute of Technology-Patna and Central University of South Bihar had also
made it to the Top-100, at 87th and 94th ranks respectively.The ranking was
released by the Union ministry of human resource development on Monday. First
developed in September 2015, the ranking this time is meant for six categories
-- Overall, Colleges, Universities, Pharmacy, Management and Engineering.Besides
IIT-P, NIT-P and CUSB, the NIRF applicants from Bihar included Bhagalpur College
of Engineering, Gaya College of Engineering, St Xavier's College of Education,
Ramdayal Singh College-Muzaffarpur and S Sinha College-Aurangabad.CUSB VC Harish
Chandra Singh Rathore blamed it on the lack of infrastructure for his
university's poor showing this year. "The university building is almost complete
with only furnishing work left to be done.

By September this year, everything will be done. From this session, few of the
departments will be shifted to our main campus in Gaya," he told this reporter
over the phone on Tuesday.While claiming that CUSB is doing very well at the
state level, VC Rathore admitted it was not enough to shine at the country
level. "We will apply for the ranking next year too...," he said.The ranking is
done on the basis of teaching, learning and resources, research and professional
practices, graduation outcomes, outreach and inclusivity and perception. NIT-P
director Ashok De says he is shocked at the ouster of his institute from the
Top-100. "In 2016, we had 15 external projects, some of which were published. In
2017, the institute has 46 external projects and most of them are published. The
number of placements and the packages also improved this year," he said.De said
they would do introspection. "I think we are lacking in producing the required
number of PhD scholars... and we were unable to gather the details of our
passouts," he said and hoped the NIT-P would do better next year.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              607 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 1, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gaming the College Rankings

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA and DANIEL E. SLOTNIK; Ian Lovett contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1215 words


Any love-hate relationship must have its share of pain, so the academic world,
in its obsession with college rankings, is suitably dismayed by news that an
elite college, Claremont McKenna, fudged its numbers in an apparent bid to climb
the charts.

Dismayed, but not quite surprised. In fact, several colleges in recent years
have been caught gaming the system -- in particular, the avidly watched U.S.
News & World Report rankings -- by twisting the meanings of rules,
cherry-picking data or just lying.

In one recent example, Iona College in New Rochelle, north of New York City,
acknowledged last fall that its employees had lied for years not only about test
scores, but also about graduation rates, freshman retention, student-faculty
ratio, acceptance rates and alumni giving.

Other institutions have found ways to manipulate the data without outright
dishonesty.

In 2008, Baylor University offered financial rewards to admitted students to
retake the SAT in hopes of increasing its average score. Admissions directors
say that some colleges delay admission of low-scoring students until January,
excluding them from averages for the class admitted in September, while other
colleges seek more applications to report a lower percentage of students
accepted.

Claremont McKenna, according to Robert Morse, the director of data research at
U.S. News, is ''the highest-ranking school to have to go through this publicly
and have to admit to misreporting.''

This year, U.S. News rated it as the nation's ninth-best liberal arts college.

There is no reason to think the U.S. News rankings are rife with misinformation,
and the publication makes efforts to police the data, adjust its metrics and
close loopholes.

But repeated revelations of manipulation show the importance of the rankings in
the minds of prospective students, their guidance counselors, parents, the
alumni considering donations, the professors weighing job offers -- and, of
course, the colleges themselves.

''The reliance on this is out of hand,'' said Jon Boeckenstedt, the associate
vice president who oversees admissions at DePaul University in Chicago. ''It's a
nebulous thing, comparing the value of a college education at one institution to
another, so parents and students and counselors focus on things that give them
the illusion of precision.''

The mixed feelings in the academic world were summed up in a report last year by
the National Association for College Admission Counseling: Most college
admissions officers and high school counselors have a low opinion of the U.S.
News rankings, yet they use the published material, whether to gather
information about other schools or to market their own.

Claremont McKenna, part of the Claremont Colleges cluster outside Los Angeles,
acknowledged Monday that a senior officer had resigned after admitting that he
had inflated the average SAT scores given to U.S. News since 2005.

People briefed on the matter identified the officer as Richard C. Vos, vice
president and dean of admissions, who once said, ''We don't play yield games,''
referring to the practice of encouraging unqualified applicants who can be
rejected to make a college seem more competitive.

Mr. Vos, whose name was removed from the school's online roster of
administrators over the weekend, declined to comment Monday night and he did not
return calls Tuesday.

SAT score averages are also reported to credit rating firms and the Department
of Education, which is looking into Claremont McKenna's actions, said Justin
Hamilton, the agency's press secretary. He said the department could impose
fines and other penalties for supplying misinformation, but rarely did,
particularly if the college brought the problem to light on its own.

Mr. Morse, of U.S. News, said that he and a team of four to six people verified
much of the information that colleges supplied, comparing it with databases from
other sources, and that they performed a service in making the data public. But
he conceded that his publication was probably at least part of the reason
schools have lied.

Iona's case was extreme; U.S. News ranked its undergraduate college 30th among
''regional universities'' in the Northeast, but estimated that with correct data
it would have dropped to 50th.

Also last year, the law schools of Villanova University and the University of
Illinois acknowledged that they had misreported some statistics; Villanova
conceded that its deception was intentional, while Illinois did not say. And at
the United States Naval Academy, famous for its honor code, a professor recently
accused administrators of inflating the number of applicants, which the academy
has denied. In 2009, a number of institutions were found to be inflating their
percentages of full-time professors -- another criterion used in ranking
systems. The impact and extent of Claremont McKenna's cheating remains unclear.
In a statement to the college staff and students, the president, Pamela B. Gann,
wrote, ''Although the degree of inaccuracies varied over time, we understand
that the reported critical reading and/or math SAT scores were generally
inflated by an average of 10-20 points each.''

Mr. Morse said that without more precise information, he could not measure how
such a change might have altered the college's ranking, but it might have made
the difference in cracking the top 10 of liberal arts colleges, a bragging right
that Claremont McKenna reached this year for only the third time.

In the U.S. News rating system, explained in detail on its Web site, SAT scores
account for 7.5 percent of the ranking. More heavily weighted criteria include
academic reputation, student retention, faculty resources and the school's
finances.

Claremont McKenna's reputation has risen over the years; as recently as 1990, it
was not in the U.S. News top 20. But it is often conscious of the comparison
with its neighbor, Pomona College, which U.S. News rated fourth among liberal
arts colleges.

Bruce J. Poch, dean of admissions at Pomona until 2010, said of the rankings,
''They're not benign instruments,'' but conceded that they are easy for a
college to fall back on as evidence of its status. ''The pressure is real,'' he
said. ''God forbid you go down in those numbers.''

Mr. Vos had been dean of admissions at Claremont McKenna since 1987. ''He was
always one of the people that I considered one of the good guys in the
profession,'' said Ralph Figueroa, director of college guidance at Albuquerque
Academy, a private day school in New Mexico.

In her Monday statement, Ms. Gann, the college president, said Claremont McKenna
discovered the discrepancy in reported SAT scores and conducted an internal
review, during which one senior administrator stepped forward to take sole
responsibility.

On the campus Tuesday, students said they were unhappy with the news, but not
greatly concerned, and proud of the college for making it public.

''I don't worry about the rankings or how this will affect them, because they
tend to be pretty arbitrary,'' said Blake Bennett, a senior who has volunteered
in the admissions office. ''They change from year to year in order to keep
selling books. Working in admissions, we pay attention to them, although we wish
we didn't have to. It's just sort of a sad state of American colleges and higher
education.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Claremont McKenna in California is the latest but not the only
college to have admitted submitting false information in an effort to win a high
rating. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              608 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 23, 2004 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Low Ranking May Not Tell Whole Story

BYLINE: GARY HABER, ghaber@tampatrib.com

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 619 words


By GARY HABER

ghaber@tampatrib.com

U.S. News & World Report released its latest college rankings Thursday, and
cheers were heard in Cambridge, Mass., and Princeton, N.J., as Harvard and
Princeton shared the No. 1 spot for the second year in a row.

The reaction was much more muted in Tampa, home to the University of South
Florida, which U.S. News relegated to the third of four tiers of schools --
those ranked 130 through 181 out of 248 universities.

Although universities covet a high ranking, or make excuses for a low one, those
in the know about U.S. higher education say the U.S. News & World Report list,
and rankings from competitors such as The Princeton Review and Newsweek, don't
carry much influence when it comes to how students go about selecting a college.

"The reason schools get so bent out of shape about it has much more to do with
alumni, and the grief they get when their rankings slip," said Rick Hesel, a
partner in the Art & Science Group, a Baltimore-based consultant to colleges and
universities across the country.

A low ranking "wounds the self-image of a school," said Hesel, and some go to
great lengths to improve their standing by courting the presidents and provosts
of other universities whose opinions are factored into the ratings.

Not A Big Factor

Instead of sending out glossy magazines touting their accomplishments, schools
"should spend a lot less time worrying about the rankings and more time on the
things they can control," Hesel said.

An Art & Science Group poll backs up what Hesel is talking about.

Of 500 college-bound students surveyed in 2002, campus visits (cited by 65
percent of students as a factor they considered) were the No. 1 influence on
student enrollment decisions, followed by parents or other family members (39
percent) and current students or graduates (33 percent).

College rankingwas the 11th most important factor, at 12 percent, and only 20
percent of the students surveyed said they had read them.

Despite that, "Colleges care a lot about the ratings, and in a sense play to
them," said Toby Waldorf, a Los Angeles-based college admissions consultant.

The ratings are a good starting point for a discussion about which school might
be right for a student, but they don't give students a clue about a school's
personality, the most important ingredient in campus happiness, Waldorf said.

Making A Choice

Waldorf relates a story about a student who came to her, whose interests
included assembling model cars.

After talking with the student and his parents, Waldorf suggested they look at
Western Washington University, a college far off U.S. News & World Report's
radar screen, but one with a strong program in automotive design.

"If they only looked at the rankings, this school wouldn't even register,"
Waldorf said.

USF is an example of what little effect the U.S. News rankings have.

Despite the school's mediocre ranking by the magazine, more than 41,000 students
attended USF last year, making it the third-largest public university in
Florida. This year, it attracted nearly 17,000 applications, an 11 percent
increase from last year. The school had to place 800 students on a waiting list.

There are some crowns that universities just refuse to wear.

When The Princeton Review last week anointed The University at Albany (N.Y.) the
nation's top party school, university officials protested in a letter to The
Chronicle of Higher Education. And in a letter posted on the university's Web
site, Albany's interim president blasted the rankings as unscientific and an
inaccurate picture of the school.

Reporter Gary Haber can be reached at (813) 259-8285.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SCHOOL DAYS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              609 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 30, 2014 Tuesday

CSUSB ranked no. 7 on Educate to Career list of more than 1,200 four-year
colleges in the U.S.

LENGTH: 398  words

DATELINE: San Bernardino


California State Universiaty, San Bernardino has issued the following news
release:

Cal State San Bernardino has been ranked No. 7 in the nation among 1,220 higher
education institutions according to the outcomes of its graduates.
The ETC College Rankings Index has placed Cal State San Bernardino at No. 7
among 1,222 higher education institutions in the United States.

The ETC College Rankings Index has placed Cal State San Bernardino at No. 7
among 1,222 higher education institutions in the United States.

The ranking, called the ETC College Rankings Index, was compiled by Educate to
Career, Inc., a California-based nonprofit research organization.

"The index empirically determines the economic value added by each of the more
than 1,200 colleges ranked within our system," said Educate to Career founder
Michael R. Havis. "We calculate the improvement in earnings and employability of
persons who attended specific colleges, relative to persons who are similarly
situated in other colleges."

"The ETC College Rankings Index, and others like it, show prospective and
current students - and our alumni - the quality and value of a degree from
CSUSB," said Tomás Morales, president of the university. "It also recognizes the
hard work our faculty, administrators and staff do to ensure the university's
goal of transforming the lives of our students."

According to the Educate to Careers website, the index "analyzes the quality of
students when they enter a given college, the total costs related to attending
the college, and the outcomes of the students when they enter the labor market.
The rankings results are determined by which schools did the best job of
improving the earnings and attainment of quality employment of their students."

In the top 10, the ETC Index placed the University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill at No. 1, followed by California State University, Los Angeles at No. 2.
Cal State San Bernardino was the next CSU campus on the list at No. 7, and Cal
State Bakersfield was listed at No. 9. Among the University of California
campuses, UC Merced was No. 3, with UC Riverside at No. 5, followed by UC Irvine
at No. 6.

"Not so surprisingly, local public colleges tend to offer the best value in a
college education based on our criteria," Havis said.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              610 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 10, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

College Rating By U.S. News Drops Factor In Admissions

BYLINE:  By JACQUES STEINBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 765 words


Perhaps the most influential survey of American higher education is changing the
way it ranks the nation's top colleges and universities, dropping from its
ratings a statistic that many institutions had sought to manipulate in hopes of
raising their ranking in the survey.

As it prepares to release its annual rankings, U.S. News & World Report, which
conducts the survey, has dropped from its formula a statistic known as the yield
rate. That figure is the percentage of applicants accepted by auniversity who
later enroll at that institution.

U.S. News had placed little weight on the yield rate; the figure represented
less than 2 percent of a college's overall score, the magazine said. But the
institutions, eager to do anything that might raise their scores, had considered
the rate, and its potential impact on rankings, important enough to admit more
students under "binding early decision" programs than they have in the past.

Students who are accepted under such programs commit in advance to enroll at a
college, so the practice automatically improves an institution's yield rate.

In recent years, some Ivy League and other highly selective colleges have come
to admit more than 40 percent of their freshman classes through such programs,
before most applicants have even applied.

Some guidance counselors and others have criticized such programs for pressuring
students to decide on a college before they may have done enough research to
know if that institution is right for them.

Mindful that the use of the yield rate in the rankings formula had drawn them
into the debate about early admissions, the editors of U. S. News decided to
omit the figure this year, Sara Sklaroff, the magazine's education editor, said
yesterday.

"What we've been told is that schools felt they could manipulate their ranking
by manipulating the yield number," she said. "We were basically in a position
where this tiny number was muddying the waters of a pretty important debate."

Bruce Poch, the vice president and dean of admissions at Pomona College in
Claremont, Calif., which tied for fifth place in the magazine's rankings of
liberal arts colleges last year, said that his was one of many top colleges that
had lobbied the magazine to stop using the yield rate.

"It was fueling a game, by perception more than reality," Mr. Poch said. "I
think I may have been the one who said to them, 'If it counts so little, why
count it at all?' "

Mr. Poch said that the magazine's inclusion of the rate had also prompted some
colleges to be especially careful in accepting applicants from their waiting
lists, making sure to admit only those virtually guaranteed to attend, all to
preserve a high yield rate.

Robert J. Morse, the director of data research for U.S. News, said that the
deletion of the yield rate was the only change in this year's formula and was
unlikely to affect the standing of any college.

Among the most heavily weighted factors in the magazine's rankings formula, Mr.
Morse said, are the assessments of a college by administrators of other, similar
institutions, 25 percent of the overall score; the resources of its faculty,
including the percentage with top degrees, 20 percent; its graduation and
retention rates, 20 percent; and its "admissions selectivity" -- a figure that
had included yield rates as well as the percentage of applicants that a college
accepts -- 15 percent.

Christopher Avery, a professor of public policy at the John F. Kennedy School of
Government at Harvard and a co-author of "The Early Admissions Game" (Harvard
University Press), said that, in interviews for the book, admissions officers at
several top colleges had cited the rankings as a factor in the decisions to
accept more students early.

Still, Mr. Avery said, he did not expect the U.S. News decision to lead to the
end of such programs. Colleges have other incentives to keep them going, not
least because such applicants are often from the wealthiest families in an
applicant pool and are passionate enough about an institution to choose it above
all others.

Indeed, the University of Pennsylvania, which accepted about 45 percent of its
incoming freshman class early and was tied for fourth among national
universities in last year's survey, does not intend to scale back its early
decision policy, said Lee Stetson, Penn's dean of admissions.

Mr. Stetson predicted that the effect of the magazine's shift would probably be
symbolic. "If it does anything," he said, "it will improve the reputation of the
U.S. News rankings, because there's always been questions or discussions
regarding yield."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              611 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                             August 10, 2012 Friday

BYU makes four top 25 lists, from goo-looking students to ... least rigorous?

BYLINE: Katie Harmer For the Deseret News

LENGTH: 509 words


As new college students prepare to start their first semester, new national
rankings are giving students a chance to gauge their campuses before getting
there. BYU made four of Newsweek and The Daily Beast's top 25 lists in their
annual college rankings, including most affordable, least rigorous, most
beautiful and most conservative. With current tuition for LDS students at $2,355
and $4,710 for non-LDS students, BYU has long been known as an affordable
school.

However, in ranking affordability, Newsweek and the Daily Beast looked at more
than tuition price. They also factored in the number of students who graduate
with debt, how large that debt is, the level of financial aid available and the
average starting and mid-career salaries of graduates. BYU ranked 16th in
affordability. Only 31 percent of graduates carry debt, while 66 percent of
full-time students receive financial aid. By comparison, Yale ranked 14th, and
MIT topped the list as the most affordable. For their list of the top 25 least
rigorous schools, sure to be controversial in Utah and with BYU alumni, Newsweek
and The Daily Beast gathered the top 200 most selective schools based on
percentage of applicants accepted and median ACT/SAT scores. Schools were then
ranked according to student-generated workload ratings on College Prowler and
student-to-faculty ratios. Newsweek and The Daily Beast explained the system
showed "the colleges where accepted students find the workload easiest when
normalized by the aptitude of the student body." The algorithm ranked BYU No. 16
among the 25 least rigorous schools, with a workload manageability score of 6.8
out of 10. Among the top 25 most beautiful schools, BYU claimed 17th place.
BYU's flower beds, lawns and buildings earned it an attractiveness rating of 8.4
out of 10, according to students. Looking beyond campus grounds, the list also
took into account ratings of student attractiveness. BYU men averaged a 7.7 out
of 10, while BYU women averaged an 8.3. Pacific Union College, a Seventh-Day
Adventist college near Napa Valley, scooped up the title of most beautiful
college with an average attractiveness rating of 9.1 and 9.2 for men and women,
respectively. BYU rounded out its appearances on the lists ranking sixth in the
top 25 most conservative campuses. Rankings were based on the percentage of
students who claimed their school to be very conservative or conservative on a
survey at College Prowler. At BYU, 87 percent of students consider the campus to
be conservative, with 38 percent rating it as very conservative and 49 percent
ranking it simply conservative. BYU spokesman Todd Hollingshead said college
rankings are always fun for students to see and share but should be viewed in
context. "With all the different rankings, you have to look at them with a grain
of salt, even if they are good," Hollingshead said. "Looking at these
categories, they're definitely trying to cater them to students and to be fun to
look at." Students can see where other colleges ranked here. Email:
kharmer@deseretnews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                              612 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            October 3, 2013 Thursday

Trinity slips in university rankings but UCD and UCC make gains

BYLINE: Dick Ahlstrom

SECTION: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 222 words


DICK AHLSTROM

The latest international university ranking has delivered a mixed performance
for Ireland with Trinity College Dublin falling back 19 places while University
College Dublin and University College Cork both showed gains.

The rankings from Times Higher Education, the longest established international
university ranking company based in the UK, show Trinity retains its place as
Ireland's highest ranked university at 129th internationally, but UCD rose 26
places in the latest rankings just published to 161 in the world to narrow the
gap between Ireland's two top 200-ranked institutions.

Universities ranked below 200 are placed in bands and Cork moved up from its
301-350th rank band to the 276-300th band. NUI Galway remained within its
301-350 band, while NUI Maynooth also remained within its 351-400 band.

Dublin City University and University of Limerick did not achieve a place above
400. Trinity's decline "should be a cause for alarm", said ranking editor Phil
Baty.

"When the flagship falls it can affect the standing of the rest of the country,"
he said.

Prof Vinny Cahill, Trinity's dean of research said the lower ranking represented
a "wake-up call" for Irish higher education. UCD had performed well but the
State was becoming a minority funder of the sector, said the university's
president Dr Hugh Brady.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              613 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 21, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

EDUCATION WATCH;
CLASS RANKINGS FALL INTO DISFAVOR IN GREAT NECK

BYLINE: By Philip S. Gutis

SECTION: Section 4; Page 9, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 379 words

DATELINE: GREAT NECK, L. I.


MANY students, parents and teachers have for years criticized standardized
college admission examinations, such as the Scholastic Aptitude Test, as
superficial and unfair. By attaching a number to such an elusive quality as
college preparedness, the critics say, the College Board tests create an
illusion of objectivity.

Now another educational yardstick is under attack. Recently, a growing number of
affluent communities like Great Neck have joined elite private schools that have
stopped ranking students according to grade point average. Although the Great
Neck Board of Education delayed formal action, officials predicted that by next
fall students would no longer be ranked at one of the area's two secondary
schools, North High School. A decision on South High School is expected later.
As the case in Great Neck illustrates, the dispute over rankings has arisen in
highly competitive suburban districts where most students plan to go to college.
In such schools, the opponents of ranking say, many students earn grades above
90 percent. Slight differences, often less than one-hundredth of a point, can
determine whether a student places in the top or bottom half of a class.

''Sometimes people fix a little too much importance on discrete numbers,'' said
Michael S. Rogers, a guidance counselor in Edgemont, a Westchester County suburb
that eliminated rankings several years ago. ''Once you use ranks, you are
automatically getting into a situation where 50 percent of your kids are below
the median.''

Although officials at some of the country's most selective colleges and
universities are not thrilled that schools are declining to report rankings,
they say their decision-making will not be disrupted.

''We are not unhappy,'' said Seamus P. Malin, an assistant dean of admissions at
Harvard University. ''We just want to make sure they are doing it on an informed
basis. We cope, but we have to be sure that we don't drift into a situation of
overemphasizing what is left - College Board scores, for example.''

With this latest affront to the quantification of high school performance,
observers might wonder what will come next. As Dean Malin added, only half in
jest, ''it's not too large a step between eliminating rank and eliminating
grades.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              614 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                              May 27, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

UCD, TCD professors paid more than those at world's top colleges

BYLINE: Mark Keenan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 468 words


PROFESSORS at Ireland's two top colleges - which have both tumbled out of the
World Top 100 ratings in the past three years - are receiving higher salaries
than those at the world's 10 highest ranking colleges like Oxford, Cambridge and
Berkeley, and just less than the salary of professors at the world's number one
ranked university.

Full professor salaries at Trinity College Dublin - ranked 110th in the world -
and University College Dublin (187th) average (EURO)138,350 and (EURO)134,150
respectively.

This compares with the (EURO)139,853 paid on average to professors at Caltech
(The California Institute of Technology). Caltech has occupied the number one
university in the world slot for the past few years.

While Irish colleges have cited falls in funding as the reason for their
deterioration in world rankings, the salary comparisons demonstrate that Irish
professors are punching well above their weight on at least one front.

Trinity professors currently receive (EURO)32,158 more per annum than professors
at the world number two ranking college, Oxford, and (EURO)26,905 more than
their peers at Cambridge, the world number seven.

They also make (EURO)14,348 more than professors at Berkeley in California and
(EURO)33,119 more than those at Imperial College London, both of which are in
the world top 10 rankings by the Times Higher Education (THE) barometer.

Typical UCD and UCC also pay their professors more than the top ten colleges.
Trinity College shares 110th place in the world with the University of Sheffield
and the University of Sussex.

Sheffield pays its professors an average of (EURO)73,319 and Sussex pays
(EURO)74,821. This means Trinity professors get (EURO)63,529 more per year than
the highest rate at an equivalent Times Higher Education ranked college, a
difference which equates to a typical annual salary.

Trinity College has fallen 57 places on the list, having been ranked 53rd five
years ago.

UCD - currently ranked at 187th place (down from 94th three years ago) and which
pays professors (EURO)134,150 on average - shares its ranking with the
University of Twente in the Netherlands, which says it pays professors an
average of (EURO)96,000 - (EURO)38,150 less.

The TCD and UCD salary averages for 2013 were supplied by the colleges
themselves.

According to the latest figures held by the Higher Education Authority, UCC
(which ranks in the 301-350 place band in the world rankings), pays its
professors an average of (EURO)133,999 and NUI Galway, which is in the same
band, pays (EURO)125,948.

This means both colleges pay more than the wages at four of the top 10 world
ranked institutions.

DCU pays (EURO)129,768, which means that despite not having a top 400 place
since 2010, its professors receive more than those employed at Oxford,
Cambridge, London Imperial and Berkeley.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2013 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              615 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 17, 2017 Friday

Baruch College Gets High Rankings in The Princeton Review and Entreprenuer
Magazine's "Top 25 Schools for Entreprenuership Studies" for 2018

LENGTH: 698  words



New York: State University of New York CUNY system has issued the following news
release:
 Baruch College's undergraduate and graduate programs at the College's Zicklin
School of Business were ranked in the top 10 by The Princeton Review and
Entrepreneur magazine's survey of the "Top Schools for Entrepreneurship Studies
for 2018."
Baruch College placed #5 in "Top 25 Undergraduate Schools" - the highest ranking
to date in this category - and ranked #10 among the "Top 25 Graduate Schools."

These rankings mark the third consecutive year that Baruch College has placed in
the top 10 for both undergraduate and graduate programs, and the 10th
consecutive year Baruch College has been included in one or both of the
undergraduate and graduate lists since the annual ranking began in 2006.


The rankings are based on surveys by The Princeton Review, in partnership with
Entrepreneur magazine, of more than 300 colleges and business schools across the
country offering entrepreneurship programs.
"We're very proud to once again be nationally recognized for our
entrepreneurship programs," said H. Fenwick Huss, PhD, Willem Kooyker Dean of
the Zicklin School of Business. "Zicklin embodies the entrepreneurial spirit
with real-world experiential learning taught by experienced faculty and industry
experts."
"These top rankings demonstrate the Field Center's unwavering commitment to a
robust entrepreneurship education that fully equips our students with the latest
tools, experiences, and support essential for success in today's economy," said
Scott Newbert, PhD, academic director of the Lawrence N. Field Programs in
Entrepreneurship.
A Specialty in Entrepreneurship
At Baruch College, The Lawrence N. Field Center for Entrepreneurship plays a
crucial role in establishing the Zicklin School of Business as a leading
business school with a specialty in entrepreneurship. Zicklin's faculty and
students, Baruch's Small Business Development Center advisors, as well as
alumni, entrepreneurs, and consultants come together at the Field Center to
support the entrepreneurial endeavors of start-ups, established businesses, and
the College's constituents.
Each year, the Field Center holds entrepreneurship-focused events, MakerHub
workshops, co-working opportunities to exchange ideas in a supportive
environment, and partnerships with such high-profile companies as AT&T and IBM
to host student entrepreneurship competitions.
A model of entrepreneurship education, the Field Center is built around the
collaboration of an institution of higher education, government, and the private
sector.
New York City[#x2012]Based with a Global Reach
A college of The City University of New York, Baruch has a more-than-160-year
history of excellence in public higher education, with its Zicklin School of
Business being the largest of its schools. With a total enrollment of more than
18,000 students, who represent 164 countries and speak 129 languages, the
College continually receives among the top rankings for academic quality and
best value from such prominent organizations as U.S. News & World Report,
Princeton Review, Forbes, and Money magazine.
With its graduates known to be New York smart and world-class ready, the Zicklin
School of Business is a recognized leader in providing undergraduate and
graduate business and executive education for the 21st century. Consistently
rated by rankings experts among the top performers in areas relevant to today's
students--such as academic excellence, diversity, and value--Zicklin offers a
wide range of part-time and full-time business degree programs that are
accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business and
taught by faculty who are thought leaders, active researchers, and practitioners
in their fields. Integrated both physically and philosophically into the fabric
of New York City, the world's financial capital, the Zicklin School is committed
to delivering relevant, affordable, academically rigorous business education
globally that is world-class in quality and worldwide in its impact.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              616 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                          September 13, 2012 Thursday
                                 METRO EDITION

on the beat

BYLINE: JENNA ROSS; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 320 words



HIGHLIGHT: ON CAMPUS // College rankings go forth, multiply


The new U.S. News and World Report college rankings are out. But who's reading?

A decade ago, U.S. News was "pretty much the only ranking system," so parents
paid attention to it, said Donna Kelly, co-owner of College Connectors, a
company that helps families navigate the search. Now, "we hear about it less
than we used to," Kelly said.

There's a growing number of imperfect ways to compare colleges. Among them:
Washington Monthly's rankings, which criticize U.S. News for focusing on "fat
endowments and prestige," and the newer Parchment, which analyzes where students
are accepted, then decide to go.

But U.S. News is still the best known, and colleges still seem to care.

The University of St. Thomas sent out a news release announcing that it "climbs
two spots in U.S. News rankings." The St. Paul school now ranks 113 among 281
schools within Best National Universities.

Carleton College again nabbed perhaps the most prestigious mark among Minnesota
schools: No. 8 in Best National Liberal Arts Colleges.

But there's a category for most everyone, it seems.

Minnesota colleges ranked in the report's multitude of lists, which now include
"Best Undergraduate Teaching" and "Up-and-Coming Schools."

One new category features "Best A-plus Schools for B Students." The magazine
used admissions and retention data to determine "where non-superstars have a
decent shot at being accepted and thriving."

Here are the Minnesotans that made that list: National universities: St. Thomas.
National liberal arts colleges: St. Benedict, Concordia, Gustavus Adolphus, St.
John's, University of Minnesota, Morris. Regional universities: Bethel, St.
Scholastica, Hamline, St. Catherine, University of Minnesota Duluth. Regional
colleges: Northwestern.

Kelly tells families not to focus on hierarchies but to dig into the graduation
rates and class sizes behind them.

"The surveys do have a lot of good data," she said.

Jenna Ross - 612-673-7168

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              617 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Virginia Gazette, Williamsburg

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             May 4, 2011 Wednesday

Why class ranking is losing its place

BYLINE: Susan Robertson, The Virginia Gazette, Williamsburg

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 431 words


May 04--In April when admissions letters arrive, class rankings sum up an
academic career. But they don't define the student.

High schools across the country are doing away with the convention of ranking
students, but not here.

"Our division, along with most others up until recent years, kept this statistic
as a matter of course," said WJC Superintendent Steven Constantino in an
interview. "It still appears on all our students' transcripts in case colleges
and universities still wish to see this statistic."

Kipp Rogers, director of secondary education for York Schools, agreed.

"We have probably chosen to keep it because class rank is used by many colleges
and universities, and I know it is required by some scholarship programs," he
said.

Critics disdain rank as "distinction without a difference." In high-performing
districts, the difference between the top students can be miniscule. In Mounds
View, Minn., the top 50 were separated by only three-tenths of a point. Rankings
have since been dropped.

Locally, only three-hundredths of a point separate the top 10 students in the
Class of 2011 at Jamestown High.

Rankings once held weight in the admissions process, but more than half of
America's high schools no longer use it, according to a recent report by the
National Association of College Admissions Counseling.

Rogers said some colleges use rankings to see how applicants compare to their
classmates or to separate two students from different schools.

Timothy Wolfe, senior associate dean of admission at William & Mary, said only
38.5% of today's freshman were ranked as seniors. "When class rank is provided,
we certainly find the information useful, since it provides context for
explaining what a GPA means at that specific school," he explained.

But schools usually include grade distribution charts or other data to convey
the grading system.

Wolfe said the college takes a "holistic" approach by looking at both academics
and personal qualities. While GPA and SAT or ACT scores are definitely taken
into consideration, he said extracurricular activities, essays, recommendations
and life experience also matter. "It is often those factors that help us make
tough decisions between students with otherwise similar numbers," he said.

To see more of The Virginia Gazette or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://vagazette.com. Copyright (c) 2011, The Virginia Gazette, Williamsburg
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110504-1VG-Why-class-ranking-is-losing-its-place-0504-20110504

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1VG


                      Copyright 2011 The Virginia Gazette


                              618 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 20, 1998, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Educators challenge school rankings

BYLINE: Glenn O'Neal

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 726 words


U.S. News and World Report's annual guide ranking the nation's
graduate schools hits newsstands Monday, but some educators are
not waiting to begin their grumbling.

Using criteria ranging from test scores of incoming students to
reputation, U.S. News decided that Yale University has
the best law school; Harvard the best business and medical schools;
and Massachusetts Institute of Technology the best engineering
school.

The ratings have long been a sore spot for educators who say the
best school is the one that best matches a student's needs.

"The rankings ought to get beyond reputation and resources and
focus on the education students receive," says Jerry Gaff at
the Association of American Colleges and Universities in Washington.


The Association of American Law Schools and the Law School Admission
Council made a pre-emptive strike Wednesday by mailing 93,000
letters to prospective law students, disparaging the rankings.
One law school dean at a New York press conference said the rankings
are "misleading and dangerous."

Lincoln Caplan, special projects editor at U.S. News, disagrees.
Caplan says the rankings are a tool students should use with other
factors in choosing a school. U.S. News vowed in a two-page
press release to continue the rankings.

U.S. News has been ranking graduate schools annually since
1990 and undergraduate schools annually since 1987.

"There's no doubt it influences rate of student applications,"
says Charles Hickman with AACSB-International Association of Management
Education in St. Louis. "The alumni look at it very closely and
to some degree employers may use it to decide where they want
to recruit."

A political science major at Emory University in Atlanta, Jonathan
Freimann says he will look at the rankings to help him sort through
the law schools he is considering attending next fall. The 21-year-old
says lawyers, and one law school professor, have told him to attend
the highest-ranked school he can because the rankings are heavily
considered in the profession.

The U.S. News and World Report Best Graduate Schools guide
is available Monday for $ 5.95. A shorter version of the rankings
is in the magazine's regular issue, also out Monday. The rankings
can be seen on the Internet beginning Saturday at the magazine's
Web site, www.usnews.com.


USA's top graduate schools

U.S. News & World Report's rankings for the USA's top
graduate schools with last year's rankings in parentheses:

LAW SCHOOLS

1. (1.) Yale University

2. (2.) Harvard University

3. (3.) Stanford University

4. Tie (5.) Columbia University

4. (4.) University of Chicago

6. (6.) New York University

7. (9.) University of Calif.-Berkeley

8. Tie (7.) University of Michigan-Ann Arbor

8. (11.) University of Pennsylvania

8. (8.) University of Virginia

BUSINESS SCHOOLS

1. Tie (2.) Harvard University

1. (1.) Stanford University

3. Tie (7.) Columbia University

3. (4.) Mass. Inst. of Technology (Sloan)

3. (3.) University of Pennsylvania (Wharton)

6. Tie (6.) Northwestern University (Kellogg)

6. (5.) University of Chicago

8. Tie (8.) Dartmouth College (Tuck)

8. (17.) Univ. of California-LA (Anderson)

10. Tie (9.) Duke University (Fuqua)

10. (10.) Univ. of California-Berkeley (Haas)

10. (12.) University of Michigan-Ann Arbor

10. (11.) University of Virginia (Darden)

ENGINEERING SCHOOLS

1. (1.) Mass. Institute of Technology

2. (2.) Stanford University

2. (5.) University of Calif.-Berkeley

4. (3.) Carnegie Mellon University

4. (7.) Georgia Institute of Technology

4. (6.) Univ. of Illinois-Urbana-Champaign

4. (9.) University of Michigan-Ann Arbor

8. (6.) California Institute of Technology

8. (9.) Cornell University

8. (10.) Purdue University-West Lafayette

MEDICAL SCHOOLS

1. (1.) Harvard University

2. (2.) Johns Hopkins University

3. (5.) Washington University

4. (3.) Duke University

4. (7.) University of Pennsylvania

4. (6.) Yale University

7. (8.) Columbia U. Coll. of Phys. & Surgeons

7. (4.) Univ. of California-San Francisco

9. (12.) Cornell University Medical College

9. (10.) Stanford University

9. (9.) University of Michigan-Ann Arbor

Source: U.S. News & World Report

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              619 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 20, 2015 Friday

Pennsylvania: Citing Flawed Analysis, Website Corrects Erroneous Crime Ranking

LENGTH: 311  words

DATELINE: Harrisburg


Pennsylvania College of Technology, The State of Pennsylvania has issued the
following News release:

With Tuesday night's finding that a website wrongly included Penn College on a
list of unsafe campuses, President Davie Jane Gilmour has updated the
institution's response.
"The FindTheBest/StartClass website that recently included Penn College on its
list of "25 most dangerous colleges" has acknowledged errors in its analysis of
crime-reporting data and problems with its methodology, resulting in a faulty
ranking of colleges.
"Last night, the site published new rankings based on corrected data analysis.
Penn College is no longer on the list.
"Here is an excerpt from the website's explanation:
"Note: We identified an error in the original analysis of the data used in the
Feb. 3, 2015 report on dangerous colleges in the United States, which resulted
in an incorrect ranking of colleges. The following is an updated report which
has corrected the previous error, clarified the criteria and methodology used,
and resulted in a new ranking. We've reached out to the various publications
that ran stories using the original data to provide them with the updated
rankings. We sincerely apologize for any confusion and inconvenience this data
issue has caused."
"The ratings were the source of much concern throughout our community. We spent
the better part of the day on Tuesday responding to communications from
concerned students, parents, alumni and others.
"While we are pleased that the rankings have been rectified, we fully understand
that no amount of crime, regardless of the severity, is acceptable at an
institution of higher learning.
"We take all crime seriously, and campus safety remains a top priority."
Thank you,
Davie Jane Gilmour, Ph.D.


In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              620 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Idaho Business Review (Boise, ID)

                             July 6, 2011 Wednesday

Boise School District switches gears on high school ratings

BYLINE: Anne Wallace Allen

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 714  words


Boise School District Superintendent Don Coberly is protesting Newsweek's
methodology after the magazine dropped all four of Boise's traditional high
schools from its list of the top 500 high schools in the country this year.

Among Idaho high schools, only Eagle High and Coeur d'Alene Charter Academy made
this year's list of the top 500, which was published in June in an article
called "America's Best High Schools 2011. "

For several years previously, Boise High had been listed in the rankings, and in
recent years Timberline and Borah had also appeared. Last year for the first
time Borah, Capital, Timberline, and Boise High Schools were all there.

Coberly noted July 6 that the longtime author of the Newsweek rankings,
Washington Post education writer Jay Mathews, had stopped contributing to the
Newsweek study and was doing his own rankings at the Washington Post. Those
rankings, which came out in May, included Boise's four traditional high schools.

Meanwhile, this year Newsweek made significant changes to its methodology,
reducing the weight of factors like Advanced Placement testing.

Newsweek said on its website that it used a panel of experts including Wendy
Kopp of Teach For America, and Tom Vander Ark of Open Education Solutions (the
former executive director for education at the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation),
"to develop a yardstick that fully reflects a school's success turning out
college-ready (and life-ready) students. "

The magazine said it scored the high schools on graduation rate (25%), college
matriculation rate (25%), AP tests taken per graduate (25%), average SAT/ACT
scores (10%), average AP/IB/AICE scores (10%), and AP courses offered (5%). Two
Dallas schools made the national top five: Talented and Gifted, and
Science/Engineering Magnet. The other three in the top five were in Alabama,
Florida and Oregon.

Coberly said he felt Boise schools had been penalized for reporting accurately
the expected college-going rate of the high school students, when many high
schools relied on reports from the students themselves about college plans. Just
57 percent of Boise high school students go on to college, where many of the
schools in the Newsweek ranking reported a 99 percent college-going rate.

"A high percentage of students will indicate they plan to go to college," said
Boise School District spokesman Dan Hollar. "Whether or not they go on to
college is a different thing. "

Coberly wrote to Newsweek to complain.

"Your rankings rely on student reports of college-going rates, when there is an
accurate measure available from the National Student Clearinghouse," Coberly
said in an e-mail. "Your rankings count those reports for 25% of the score,
unfortunately. We use reliable data from the Clearinghouse, and were thus
penalized. "

Coberly said Newsweek replied that his comments would be taken into
consideration when next year's rankings came around.

Eric Exline, a spokesman for the school district that includes Meridian, Eagle,
Star, and parts of Boise, agreed with Coberly that Eagle relied on the students'
reports of their plans for college. Eagle's appearance on the Newsweek list this
year is its first.

"We aren't using any outside official method of tracking college entrance in our
district," Exline said. "We used to, but it was kind of expensive so we quit
doing it. "

Meanwhile Hollar said Boise's four traditional high schools would receive awards
at the July 11 School Board meeting for appearing once again in Mathews'
rankings, this time in the Washington Post.

High school rankings abound. Another comes from the U.S. News and World Report,
where Idaho high schools scored respectably this year, on par with Washington,
Oregon, Virginia and New York.

Coberly and other district officials have historically relied heavily on the
Newsweek rankings when promoting the success of the district's schools. In the
future, "we're going to continue to report accurate data," Coberly said. They're
also going to publicize the Washington Post findings, because they weigh
Advanced Placement exams more heavily than the new Newsweek methodology.

"I'm absolutely certain that not only are our schools going to continue to be
ranked, but they'll be ranked even higher, because the ratio of AP exams to
students has gone up," Coberly said.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Government activity

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              621 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            August 23, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Idaho Edition

GU, Whitworth make magazine's arguable top 10

BYLINE: Shawn Vestal Staff writer

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 473 words


Gonzaga University and Whitworth College both ranked in the top 10 for their
category in the new U.S. News & World Report listings of the nation's top
schools - an annual report that stirs at least as much heartburn as pride in
academia.

Public universities in the Inland Northwest all ranked lower in their
categories.

The report has been criticized from many quarters as being a superficial or
imperfect measure of schools' quality. It provides bragging rights to the
schools that do well - Harvard, Princeton and Yale among national schools - but
even the winners sometimes take it with a grain of salt.

Whitworth President Bill Robinson said, in a news release, that "the rankings
can never capture the real value of our mission or the great things that our
students and faculty accomplish."

Whitworth and Gonzaga have been highly rated in recent years among master's
level universities in the West. In the newest rankings, Gonzaga is again fourth
and Whitworth sixth among 123 schools in that class. Eastern Washington
University ranked 55th.

Other regional universities ranked lower on different scales. Among national
universities - those with full doctoral programs and often a research emphasis -
Washington State University ranked 120th. That's at the bottom of the first of
three tiers of rankings, below the University of Washington in 45th place.

The University of Idaho is ranked in the third tier, which isn't broken down by
number.

The rankings are based on a variety of statistical measures, with the greatest
weight given to peer ratings, faculty resources and retention of freshmen. It's
been around since 1983, and some universities - such as Clemson - have made
improving in the magazine's rankings a top priority.

WSU spokesman James Tinney said that some surveys indicate students don't use
such rankings all that much in their decision-making, despite the attention they
get. More important for a school like WSU are personal connections, family and
friends, and other experiences that the rankings can't quantify.

"For us, I don't think it has that much of a recruiting impact one way or
another," he said. "Boiling down a college experience to a chart full of numbers
- I don't know how much you really learn from that."

Many in higher education have criticized the rankings as a limited measure of a
school's quality, and they decry the influence the rankings have.

In the Chronicle of Higher Education earlier this year, Ben Gose wrote, "In any
discussion of what is wrong with college admissions today, one is bound to hear
two culprits - the college rankings by U.S. News & World Report and the SAT."

The magazine, in its online edition, says it provides the rankings as one way
for students to make direct comparisons between institutions, and they are not
intended to be the sole measure for university quality.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Shawn Vestal can be reached at (509) 459-5431 or by e-mail at
shawnv@spokesman.com.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                              622 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            August 23, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Metro Edition

GU, Whitworth make magazine's arguable top 10

BYLINE: Shawn Vestal Staff writer

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 473 words


Gonzaga University and Whitworth College both ranked in the top 10 for their
category in the new U.S. News & World Report listings of the nation's top
schools - an annual report that stirs at least as much heartburn as pride in
academia.

Public universities in the Inland Northwest all ranked lower in their
categories.

The report has been criticized from many quarters as being a superficial or
imperfect measure of schools' quality. It provides bragging rights to the
schools that do well - Harvard, Princeton and Yale among national schools - but
even the winners sometimes take it with a grain of salt.

Whitworth President Bill Robinson said, in a news release, that "the rankings
can never capture the real value of our mission or the great things that our
students and faculty accomplish."

Whitworth and Gonzaga have been highly rated in recent years among master's
level universities in the West. In the newest rankings, Gonzaga is again fourth
and Whitworth sixth among 123 schools in that class. Eastern Washington
University ranked 55th.

Other regional universities ranked lower on different scales. Among national
universities - those with full doctoral programs and often a research emphasis -
Washington State University ranked 120th. That's at the bottom of the first of
three tiers of rankings, below the University of Washington in 45th place.

The University of Idaho is ranked in the third tier, which isn't broken down by
number.

The rankings are based on a variety of statistical measures, with the greatest
weight given to peer ratings, faculty resources and retention of freshmen. It's
been around since 1983, and some universities - such as Clemson - have made
improving in the magazine's rankings a top priority.

WSU spokesman James Tinney said that some surveys indicate students don't use
such rankings all that much in their decision-making, despite the attention they
get. More important for a school like WSU are personal connections, family and
friends, and other experiences that the rankings can't quantify.

"For us, I don't think it has that much of a recruiting impact one way or
another," he said. "Boiling down a college experience to a chart full of numbers
- I don't know how much you really learn from that."

Many in higher education have criticized the rankings as a limited measure of a
school's quality, and they decry the influence the rankings have.

In the Chronicle of Higher Education earlier this year, Ben Gose wrote, "In any
discussion of what is wrong with college admissions today, one is bound to hear
two culprits - the college rankings by U.S. News & World Report and the SAT."

The magazine, in its online edition, says it provides the rankings as one way
for students to make direct comparisons between institutions, and they are not
intended to be the sole measure for university quality.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Shawn Vestal can be reached at (509) 459-5431 or by e-mail at
shawnv@spokesman.com.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                              623 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 4, 2017 Friday

Geneseo on The Princeton Review's Best Colleges List for 2018

LENGTH: 401  words



New York: The State University of New York at Geneseo has issued the following
news release:


 SUNY Geneseo is one of the nation's best institutions for undergraduate
education, according to The Princeton Review. The education services company
features the college in the just-published 2018 edition of its annual flagship
college guide, "The Best 382 Colleges." About 15% of America's 2,500 four-year
colleges and two colleges outside of the United States are profiled in the book.
SUNY Geneseo has consistently been on the list for a number of years.


"We chose Geneseo for this book because it offers outstanding academics," said
Robert Franek, Princeton Review's editor-in-chief and author of "The Beset 382
Colleges." "Our selections are primarily based on our surveys of administrators
at several hundred four-year colleges. We also visit dozens of colleges each
year and give considerable weight to opinions of our staff and our 24-member
National College counselor Advisory Board. Most important, we look at valuable
feedback we get from each school's customers - our surveys of student attending
them. We also keep a wide representation of college in the book by region, size,
selectivity and character."
"Surveys such as this continue to corroborate the quality college experience
Geneseo students enjoy," said Meaghan Arena, vice president for enrollment
management. "We offer a strong academic program combined with a rich student
life environment which adds up to a college education second to none."
Published annually since 1992, the Princeton Review includes detailed profiles
of the colleges plus student survey-based ranking lists of top 20 colleges in 62
categories. The rankings are posted online.
The Princeton Review's 62 ranking lists in "The Best 382 Colleges" are based on
its survey of 143,000 students (about 375 per campus on average) attending the
colleges in the book. The 80-question survey asks students to rate their schools
on several topics and report on their campus experiences at them.
The Princeton Review does not rank the colleges in the book academically, or
from 1 to 382 in any category, nor do the rankings reflect The Princeton
Review's opinion of the schools. Instead, it reports 62 ranking lists of the top
20 colleges in various categories.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              624 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 7, 2015 Wednesday

Vermont: Vermont Tech is Ranked Among the Best Regional Colleges for 2016 by
U.S. News and World Report

LENGTH: 263 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Montpelier: Vermont Technical College, The State of Vermont has issued the
following news release:



 Vermont Tech is pleased to announce that the college has been ranked 24th among
the Best Northeast Regional Colleges for 2016 in the annual best college
rankings published by U.S. News & World Report. In the public college category,
Vermont Tech ranks 8th in the Northeast region, making it one of the top 15
public colleges in the north for the fourth year in a row. Vermont Tech is one
of just two Vermont schools to rank in the best northern regional colleges
category and is the only public college in Vermont to be included in the
northern regional colleges ranking.





 &ldquo;We're proud that U.S. News & World Report continues to recognize Vermont
Tech as a top college,&rdquo; said Vermont Tech President Dan Smith. &ldquo;This
year we've moved up 12 places in the regional college category, and three places
in the public college category. This movement reflects the positive momentum
we've seen over the past year. Vermont Tech might be a small college, but we
produce big outcomes.&rdquo;



 U.S. News & World Report gathers data from each college on 11 indicators of
academic excellence to determine the annual rankings. The indicators range from
student retention, peer assessment, student/faculty ratio and more. These
rankings serve as a powerful tool that allows prospective students and their
families to better navigate the college search process.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              625 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 7, 2015 Wednesday

Vermont: Vermont Tech is Ranked Among the Best Regional Colleges for 2016 by
U.S. News and World Report

LENGTH: 263 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Montpelier: Vermont Technical College, The State of Vermont has issued the
following news release:



 Vermont Tech is pleased to announce that the college has been ranked 24th among
the Best Northeast Regional Colleges for 2016 in the annual best college
rankings published by U.S. News & World Report. In the public college category,
Vermont Tech ranks 8th in the Northeast region, making it one of the top 15
public colleges in the north for the fourth year in a row. Vermont Tech is one
of just two Vermont schools to rank in the best northern regional colleges
category and is the only public college in Vermont to be included in the
northern regional colleges ranking.





 &ldquo;We're proud that U.S. News & World Report continues to recognize Vermont
Tech as a top college,&rdquo; said Vermont Tech President Dan Smith. &ldquo;This
year we've moved up 12 places in the regional college category, and three places
in the public college category. This movement reflects the positive momentum
we've seen over the past year. Vermont Tech might be a small college, but we
produce big outcomes.&rdquo;



 U.S. News & World Report gathers data from each college on 11 indicators of
academic excellence to determine the annual rankings. The indicators range from
student retention, peer assessment, student/faculty ratio and more. These
rankings serve as a powerful tool that allows prospective students and their
families to better navigate the college search process.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              626 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                              July 16, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Some colleges question value of rankings

BYLINE: MARK HARPER - EDUCATION WRITER

SECTION: SECTION C; Pg. 03C

LENGTH: 519  words


At least one local school, Stetson University in DeLand, is considering joining
a boycott of a popular magazine's higher education rankings.

U.S. News & World Report has sold millions of copies of its "America's Best
Colleges" issue over the past 20 years. But for about as long, some higher
education officials have questioned its value and methodology.

Last month, the Annapolis Group -- a gathering of 124 liberal arts colleges --
agreed to take a stand against the U.S. News system of rankings and devise its
own Internet database to provide information to prospective students.

The rankings are based on a complicated formula, part of which includes a survey
of college presidents, provosts and deans of admission, asking them to rate 260
schools.

I am not in a position to know most of those schools well enough to rate them,"
said Trudie Kibbe Reed, president of Bethune-Cookman University in Daytona
Beach. "It's a popularity contest."

Bethune-Cookman, a historically black school that is not part of the Annapolis
Group, has not fared well in the rankings, hurt in part by its mission of
accepting students whose test scores and high school standings might not gain
them entry into more selective institutions.

We take students and polish them," Reed said. "There is no measurement tool in
U.S. News that can tell you how great we are."

While saying she would be happy to work with U.S. News on a better way to gauge
the quality of her school, and others like it, Reed said she would not take part
in a boycott of the magazine's rankings, preferring to work within the system
for improvements.

The only Florida member of the Annapolis Group, Rollins College in Winter Park,
also will continue to work with the magazine, said President Lewis Duncan.

The idea of a boycott of U.S. News is not in the best interest of the colleges
and prospective students," Duncan said. "I believe, despite the flaws . . .
their ranking does provide a service to students that's attested to by the large
number of copies that are sold."

Rollins ranks No. 1 among regional universities offering master's degrees in the
South.

But Stetson, which the magazine rates as No. 5 in that category, is considering
joining the Annapolis Group's boycott, senior vice president and chief operating
officer Jim Beasley said in a written statement.

We are pleased with Stetson University's U.S. News rankings over the years,"
Beasley said. "At the same time, we have concerns about the magazine's system of
ranking and would not want parents and students to use that alone when deciding
on a school."

Stetson University also is rated regularly among the top 100 law schools in the
United States, while U.S. News rates Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University's
aerospace engineering program as No. 1 among schools without doctoral programs.

Robert Morse, director of data research for U.S. News, wrote on the magazine's
Web site that the peer assessment survey accounts for intangibles of a college
that can't be measured through statistical data.

He argued the Annapolis Group's proposal "will offer consumers far less than
what U.S. News currently offers."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2007 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2007 News-Journal Corporation


                              627 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                              July 16, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Some colleges question value of rankings

BYLINE: MARK HARPER - EDUCATION WRITER

SECTION: SECTION C; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 519  words


At least one local school, Stetson University in DeLand, is considering joining
a boycott of a popular magazine's higher education rankings.

U.S. News & World Report has sold millions of copies of its "America's Best
Colleges" issue over the past 20 years. But for about as long, some higher
education officials have questioned its value and methodology.

Last month, the Annapolis Group -- a gathering of 124 liberal arts colleges --
agreed to take a stand against the U.S. News system of rankings and devise its
own Internet database to provide information to prospective students.

The rankings are based on a complicated formula, part of which includes a survey
of college presidents, provosts and deans of admission, asking them to rate 260
schools.

I am not in a position to know most of those schools well enough to rate them,"
said Trudie Kibbe Reed, president of Bethune-Cookman University in Daytona
Beach. "It's a popularity contest."

Bethune-Cookman, a historically black school that is not part of the Annapolis
Group, has not fared well in the rankings, hurt in part by its mission of
accepting students whose test scores and high school standings might not gain
them entry into more selective institutions.

We take students and polish them," Reed said. "There is no measurement tool in
U.S. News that can tell you how great we are."

While saying she would be happy to work with U.S. News on a better way to gauge
the quality of her school, and others like it, Reed said she would not take part
in a boycott of the magazine's rankings, preferring to work within the system
for improvements.

The only Florida member of the Annapolis Group, Rollins College in Winter Park,
also will continue to work with the magazine, said President Lewis Duncan.

The idea of a boycott of U.S. News is not in the best interest of the colleges
and prospective students," Duncan said. "I believe, despite the flaws . . .
their ranking does provide a service to students that's attested to by the large
number of copies that are sold."

Rollins ranks No. 1 among regional universities offering master's degrees in the
South.

But Stetson, which the magazine rates as No. 5 in that category, is considering
joining the Annapolis Group's boycott, senior vice president and chief operating
officer Jim Beasley said in a written statement.

We are pleased with Stetson University's U.S. News rankings over the years,"
Beasley said. "At the same time, we have concerns about the magazine's system of
ranking and would not want parents and students to use that alone when deciding
on a school."

Stetson University also is rated regularly among the top 100 law schools in the
United States, while U.S. News rates Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University's
aerospace engineering program as No. 1 among schools without doctoral programs.

Robert Morse, director of data research for U.S. News, wrote on the magazine's
Web site that the peer assessment survey accounts for intangibles of a college
that can't be measured through statistical data.

He argued the Annapolis Group's proposal "will offer consumers far less than
what U.S. News currently offers."

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2007 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2007 News-Journal Corporation


                              628 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Grand Forks Herald (North Dakota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           September 26, 2016 Monday

COLLEGE HOCKEY: Defending champion UND earns No. 1 ranking in preseason poll

BYLINE: Brad Elliott Schlossman, Grand Forks Herald

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 296 words


Sept. 26--College hockey's defending national champion North Dakota will open
this season as the team to beat.

UND holds the nation's No. 1 ranking in the preseason U.S. College Hockey Online
national poll. Quinnipiac, last year's national runner-up, opens the season at
No. 2, followed by Denver, Boston University and Boston College. National
Collegiate Hockey Conference members Minnesota Duluth (No. 6) and St. Cloud
State (No. 7) also are in the top 10 nationally.

UND received 43 of 50 first-place votes. Quinnipiac and Boston College each
received one and Boston University, which has three NHL first-round picks in its
freshman class, received five first-place votes.

-- Sign up here for the UND Hockey Newsletter

UND, which routed Quinnipiac 5-1 to win its eighth national championship, will
raise its national title banner before Saturday night's exhibition game against
the University of Manitoba.

Rankings

Preseason U.S. College Hockey Online national poll

Team (First Place) Record Pts Last Year

1 North Dakota (43) 34-6-4 993 1

2 Quinnipiac (1) 32-4-7 856 2

3 Denver  25-10-6 848 4

4 Boston University (5) 21-13-5 774 14

5 Boston College (1) 28-8-5 641 3

6 Minnesota-Duluth  19-16-5 621 9

7 St. Cloud State  31-9-1 569 5

8 Massachusetts-Lowell  26-10-5 535 7

9 Notre Dame  19-11-7 502 13

10 Providence  27-7-4 476 7

11 Michigan  25-8-5 470 6

12 Harvard  19-11-4 422 10

13 Minnesota  20-17-0 404 NR

14 Bowling Green  22-14-6 370 NR

15 Northeastern  22-15-5 361 12

16 St. Lawrence  19-14-4 336 18

17 Michigan Tech  23-9-5 285 16

18 Yale  19-9-4 283 11

19 Minnesota State  21-13-7 153 17

20 Ferris State  20-15-6 126 15

___ (c)2016 the Grand Forks Herald (Grand Forks, N.D.) Visit the Grand Forks
Herald (Grand Forks, N.D.) at www.grandforksherald.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160926-GF-COLLEGE-HOCKEY-Defending-champion-UND-earns-No-1-ranking
-in-preseason-poll-0926-20160926

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GF


                       Copyright 2016 Grand Forks Herald


                              629 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Daily Record, The (Baltimore, MD)

                              July 10, 2017 Monday

University of Maryland among 'Best Colleges for Your Money'

BYLINE: Tim Curtis

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 292  words


The University of Maryland ranked as one of the top 20 colleges in Money
Magazine's "Best Colleges for Your Money" 2017 ranking of universities.

The magazine ranked 711 schools based on affordability, quality of education and
outcomes. The University of Maryland, at 20th, was the only school in the state
to crack the top 20.

Johns Hopkins (131), Towson (150), McDaniel (206), Salisbury (250), Loyola
(261), St. Mary's College of Maryland (265), UMBC (279), Bowie State (462),
Frostburg State (506), Washington College (535), Hood (550), Goucher (609), MICA
(664) and Mount St. Mary's (682) rounded out Maryland schools on the list.

Money Magazine only considered schools with at least 500 students; sufficient,
reliable data to be analyzed; not be in financial distress; and with a
graduation rate that was at or above the median for its institutional category.

The publication's methodology led to a list a little different than the typical
college ranking. Normal top-of-the-list stalwart Harvard barely cracked the top
10 while Baruch College in New York City came in at No. 2 on the list.  Yale
finished 14th, just six spots ahead of the University of Maryland.

But while the list considered affordability, some outcomes remained the same as
a typical college ranking. Princeton finished in the top spot, just as it did on
last year's U.S. News and World Report rankings.

Locally, Johns Hopkins University suffered the most from Money Magazine's
process. Ranked 10th in U.S. News and World Report's rankings, the private
school finished outside of the top 100.

Head over to Money Magazine's rankings to find out more, including the full
methodology.



Click here for more from this resource.

Copyright © 2017 BridgeTower Media.  All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              630 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 21, 2017 Tuesday

Education college climbs to No. 72 in U.S. News rankings

LENGTH: 409  words

DATELINE: New York



 Carbondale: Southern Illinois University has issued the following neaws
release:



   Southern Illinois University Carbondale moved up 27 spots in the U.S. News &
World Report rankings for best schools of education in the graduate school
rankings released this week.





 SIU's College of Education and Human Services jumped into a tie for No. 72 on
the "2018 Best Education Schools" list this year, up from last year's ranking of
No. 99. That moves SIU ahead of such schools as Clemson, Lehigh, the University
of Northern Iowa, Iowa State, Kansas State, Loyola Chicago, Virginia Tech,
Auburn and Baylor.



 "U.S. News and World Report has moved our college even further up the ranks of
the nation's top schools. We are proud to be recognized for the work we do, for
our fine students, and especially for our faculty's strong commitment to our
community partners," Dean Matthew Keefer said. "Clearly we are a college that
makes a difference in the lives of our students and in the communities we serve,
and we are exceptionally proud of these collaborations and partnerships."



 In addition, the college's rehabilitation counseling graduate program
maintained its high ranking, tied for fourth place among all such programs.



 This is the fourth consecutive year SIU has held the No. 4 spot in that
category and the university has been no lower than sixth since 2009, according
to Carl Flowers, professor and director of the Rehabilitation Institute. He
praised the program and its faculty, saying the faculty are strong and
consistent researchers who mentor their students while maintaining strong
publication records and serving as leaders in the rehabilitation counselor
education field and its related national organizations.



 U.S. News utilizes a number of tools in analyzing schools and determining
rankings, including: student selectivity, including acceptance rates and GRE
test scores; peer and superintendent quality assessments; research activity and
funding; and faculty resources, including student-to-faculty ratio, percentage
of faculty, with awards and ratio of doctoral degrees to full-time faculty
members.



 "The ranking also reflects the solid reputation we have among other colleges of
education," Nancy Mundschenk, associate professor and director of teacher
education, said.



 The rankings guide includes a profile of SIU.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              631 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 21, 2017 Tuesday

Education college climbs to No. 72 in U.S. News rankings

LENGTH: 409  words

DATELINE: New York



 Carbondale: Southern Illinois University has issued the following neaws
release:



   Southern Illinois University Carbondale moved up 27 spots in the U.S. News &
World Report rankings for best schools of education in the graduate school
rankings released this week.





 SIU's College of Education and Human Services jumped into a tie for No. 72 on
the "2018 Best Education Schools" list this year, up from last year's ranking of
No. 99. That moves SIU ahead of such schools as Clemson, Lehigh, the University
of Northern Iowa, Iowa State, Kansas State, Loyola Chicago, Virginia Tech,
Auburn and Baylor.



 "U.S. News and World Report has moved our college even further up the ranks of
the nation's top schools. We are proud to be recognized for the work we do, for
our fine students, and especially for our faculty's strong commitment to our
community partners," Dean Matthew Keefer said. "Clearly we are a college that
makes a difference in the lives of our students and in the communities we serve,
and we are exceptionally proud of these collaborations and partnerships."



 In addition, the college's rehabilitation counseling graduate program
maintained its high ranking, tied for fourth place among all such programs.



 This is the fourth consecutive year SIU has held the No. 4 spot in that
category and the university has been no lower than sixth since 2009, according
to Carl Flowers, professor and director of the Rehabilitation Institute. He
praised the program and its faculty, saying the faculty are strong and
consistent researchers who mentor their students while maintaining strong
publication records and serving as leaders in the rehabilitation counselor
education field and its related national organizations.



 U.S. News utilizes a number of tools in analyzing schools and determining
rankings, including: student selectivity, including acceptance rates and GRE
test scores; peer and superintendent quality assessments; research activity and
funding; and faculty resources, including student-to-faculty ratio, percentage
of faculty, with awards and ratio of doctoral degrees to full-time faculty
members.



 "The ranking also reflects the solid reputation we have among other colleges of
education," Nancy Mundschenk, associate professor and director of teacher
education, said.



 The rankings guide includes a profile of SIU.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              632 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                          September 14, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

COLLEGES RANKED IN REPORT GU fourth in West; WSU defends 143rd spot

BYLINE: Eli Francovich elif@spokesman.com, (509) 459-5417

SECTION: A; Pg. 005

LENGTH: 537 words


Two Spokane colleges are in the top 15 western universities, according to the
nation's most prominent higher education rankings system.

U.S. News & World Report's 2017 annual best colleges report, which was released
Tuesday, ranked Gonzaga University fourth and Whitworth University 11th in the
western U.S.

"We know that students and their families pay attention to rankings as one
measure of a university's suitability for a higher education experience," said
Mary Joan Hahn, Gonzaga spokeswoman. "We also know there are many factors
students take into account when selecting a university."

The rankings also listed Washington State University in the bottom half of
public institutions, prompting administrators at the Inland Northwest's largest
institution to claim the survey had limitations.

"We're a land grant university and have a mission of access and affordability,"
said Dan Bernardo, the provost and executive vice president. "Some of these
criteria used in U.S. News & World Report really smack against access and
affordability."

WSU is ranked 143 out of 220 schools nationwide, according to U.S. News & World
Report's best colleges report.

The University of Washington is ranked 54th nationwide.

Rankings are useful at the beginning of a college search but rarely are the
determining factor, said Greg Orwig, Whitworth's vice president for admissions
and financial aid.

"It's not irrelevant, but it's far from the most important thing we want people
to know about Whitworth," he said. "Rankings should inform that process but not
drive it."

Orwig said the school's rank is included in recruitment literature but isn't a
major selling point.

"The sheer proliferation of rankings has, I believed, diluted the impact of
rankings generally," he said.

The annual survey ranks schools based on 15 academic indicators: graduation and
retention rates, alumni giving and SAT and ACT test scores. The survey examined
more than 18,000 colleges and universities and ranked 1,374. The western region
covers 14 states, including California, Texas, Arizona and Hawaii.

The data can indicate the quality of the school but doesn't take into account
numerous, less tangible factors, Orwig said.

"None of those things can capture the ethos of the campus community," he said.

Bernardo echoed Orwig and pointed to this year's freshman class at WSU, 35
percent of whom are minorities and 45 percent first-generation college students.
These student populations often face difficulties  that students at more
exclusive schools don't.

"We are an institution that embraces inclusion and taking students with a great
work ethic," Bernardo said.

In 2013, then-U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan criticized the survey,
saying it creates "perverse incentives that actually increase costs for
families." The Department of Education created its own college ranking system
that same year.

SIDEBAR:

LOCAL UNIVERSITIES RANKED

Gonzaga University: fourth in the West; 22nd for best undergraduate engineering
programs (where doctorates aren't offered)

Whitworth University: 11th in the West; fifth for best value in the West

Washington State University: 143rd for national universities

University of Washington: 54th for national universities

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                              633 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              May 9, 2015 Saturday

CSUSB ranked among the top ten universities in the west as a 'Best Bang for the
Buck'

LENGTH: 422  words

DATELINE: San Bernardino


California State University, San Bernardino has issued the following news
release:

Cal State San Bernardino has been ranked among the top 10 universities in the
West considered "Best Bang for the Buck" in a Washington Monthly survey that
looked at 233 colleges and universities.
Click on the image to see the the Best Bang for the Buck -- Western Rankings
online.

Click on the image to see the the Best Bang for the Buck -- Western Rankings
online.

The rankings came from the Washington Monthly's "The Other College Guide: A
Roadmap for the Right School for You." The rankings evaluated which of those
schools in the West are the best value based on the cost of tuition, the number
of students who graduate, and whether those students go on to earn at least
enough to pay off their student loans.

The survey looked at the student loan default rate, the graduation rate,
students receiving Pell Grants, the net price for all students attending the
university, the net family income, the percentage of students admitted and the
ACT/SAT percentile scores.

CSUSB was ranked ninth in the survey. Four other CSU campuses were also ranked
in the top ten.

"We're proud that Cal State San Bernardino is listed high among those college
and universities in categories that students and their families consider
important when choosing a college or university," said CSUSB Provost Andy
Bodman. "This is yet another example from recent rankings showing the value
added by a CSUSB degree. In the long run, we are providing a more educated and
highly trained workforce that will enhance the communities we serve in the
Inland Empire."

CSUSB has been named in a number of other national rankings including U.S. News
and World Report, the Princeton Review, Forbes, BestColleges.com Top 50 Colleges
for Hispanic Students and the Military Times.

In other recent surveys and rankings, Cal State San Bernardino was ranked 22nd
among the Top Regional Public Universities in the West by U.S. News and World
Report and was named one of the "Best the West" colleges and universities by The
Princeton Review. CSUSB also made the Forbes list of "America's Best Colleges"
and BestColleges.com Top 50 Colleges for Hispanic Students.

For more information, visit the Best Bang for the Buck - Western Rankings
online.

For more information on Cal State San Bernardino, contact the university's
Office of Public Affairs at (909) 537-5007 and visit news.csusb.edu.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              634 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                              July 28, 2008 Monday
                                8:04 PM EDITION

UW-MADISON MOVES UP IN VALUE, DOWN IN DRINKING, SAYS PRINCETON REVIEW

BYLINE: Doug Shore

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. WEB

LENGTH: 588 words


A number of Wisconsin universities and colleges are prominently featured in the
2009 version of Princeton Review's "Best Colleges" guidebook.

"The Best 368 Colleges," which goes on sale Tuesday, used 120,000 student
surveys to rank the country's colleges in 62 categories.

Although there's been considerable griping about rising tuition the last few
years, UW-Madison students evidently still think they are getting pretty good
bang for their buck. The university received a top 10 ranking in the category of
"Best Value Public Colleges."

UW-Madison did not crack the top 20 party schools list, but did score
particularly well in categories involving alcohol, ranking sixth overall in the
"Lots of Beer" category and ninth for having "Lots of Liquor." The University of
Florida was named the No. 1 party school in the nation.

In the 2006 guide, UW-Madison was named the No. 1 party school in the country
and ranked third for both beer and hard liquor consumption.

In 2007, the school was ranked the fourth biggest party school. It finished
fourth in beer consumption and fifth in hard liquor that year.

UW-Madison was not in the top 20 list of party schools in the 2008 guide either,
however, the school did hold the No. 1 position for beer consumption.

To determine the party school rankings, author Rob Franek combines answers to
five separate questions. Students rank from one (low) to five (high) the
popularity of liquor, beer, drugs, fraternity and sororities and how many hours
spent studying per week.

The rankings related to alcohol consumption and partying have been criticized
for sending the wrong message to high school students trying to decide what
college to attend. Franek, who has written the guidebook for the past 10 years,
defends the content of the publication as an accurate representation of what
life is like on each specific campus.

"The primary focus is the students' opinion of life at their school," Franek
said. "Their individual college experiences, good and bad, are the basis for the
guide."

The success of Badger athletic programs helped the university earn 16th place in
the "Students Pack the Stadiums" category, just ahead of University of
Alabama-Tuscaloosa, but two spots behind perennial athletic powerhouse Wabash
College in Crawfordsville, Ind.

A number of other state schools received numerous top 20 rankings. Lawrence
University in Appleton received fourth place for "Most Accessible Professors,"
12th for "Best College Theatre" and 13th for "Best Classroom Experience."

Beloit College distinguished itself as quite an anti-establishment enclave of
higher learning, receiving top 20 rankings in a number of interesting
categories, including "Lots of Race/Class Interaction" (9), "Gay Community
Accepted" (15), "Birkenstock-Wearing, Tree-Hugging, Clove-Smoking Vegetarians"
(17) and "Least Religious Students" (18).

Students were pleased with their ability to find funding at Beloit. The school
finished in seventh place in the category of "Students Happy with Financial
Aid." Unfortunately, they also felt Beloit is too boring, as the school was
ranked 11th on the "More to Do on Campus" (city gets low rating) list.

Ripon College made the top 20 in five categories: "Professors Get High Marks"
(3), "Town-Gown Relations are Great" (3), "Everyone Plays Intramural Sports"
(4), "Most Accessible Professors" (14) and "Students Happy With Financial Aid"
(18).

Marquette received one top 20 ranking, but it wasn't positive. The Golden Eagles
received 13th place in the "Class Discussions Rare" category.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Craig Schreiner/State Journal The Princeton Review calls UW-Madison one
of the best value public colleges. The UW also received top 10 rankings in beer
and alcohol consumption.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              635 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education

                           September 21, 2007 Friday

Nonpromotion Pact

BYLINE: ERIC HOOVER

SECTION: STUDENTS; Pg. 27 Vol. 54 No. 4

LENGTH: 154 words


Critics of college rankings tend to use harsh words when describing U.S. News &
World Report's annual list of top colleges. This year one college president even
called it "evil." By that standard, the latest salvo in the rankings debate was
mild. In early September, the presidents of 19 highly ranked liberal-arts
colleges -- including Williams, Amherst, and Swarthmore -- released a joint
statement saying they were concerned about the biases in rankings formulas and
about rankings' contribution to the "admissions frenzy." The presidents said
they would publish institutional data on their Web sites, rather than submit it
exclusively to U.S. News and other publications that compile college guides. The
presidents also said they would not mention the rankings in new promotional
materials because rankings "mislead the public into thinking that the
complexities of American higher education can be reduced to one number."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2007 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved


                              636 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             October 2, 2017 Monday

Payscale, College Factual Rank New Mexico Tech No. 1 in New Mexico, Among Top
Values Nationwide

LENGTH: 393  words



Socorro: New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology has issued the following
news release:

The 2018 rankings from Payscale.com 's College Salary Report and College
Factual's annual national college rankings place New Mexico Tech not only atop
the list of New Mexico's public four-year colleges by a wide margin, but also
among the nation's elite institutions.


New Mexico high-school graduates interested in pursuing a STEM degree enjoy a
tremendous advantage in higher-education value and return on investment in New
Mexico Tech. NMT's undergraduate student body is made of of 87.4% New Mexico
residents.
College Factual 2018 Ratings
For the second year in a row, Tech is ranked No. 1 nationwide among all
universities in Engineering and Physics when it comes to the best colleges for
the money or best value.  Tech also repeated its No. 1 ranking in Chemical
Engineering and Mechanical Engineering while remaining in the Top 2% among all
universities in Computer Science and in the Top 2% in Physical Sciences.
Tech is also in the Top 1% nationally in Mathematics, Top 2% in Mathematics and
Statistics, Top 2% in Computer and Information Sciences, and Top 5% in
Electrical Engineering. Overall, Tech ranks No. 1 in New Mexico, No. 2 in the
Southwest, and 31st nationally among all public universities.
New Mexico Tech received 44 awards from College Factual's 2018 rankings, all of
which are granted to universities ranked in the top 15 percent nationally in one
of its categories.
Quotes from College Factual:
"Looking for the best of the best? Look into New Mexico Institute of Mining and
Technology to obtain your degree in Physics. New Mexico Institute of Mining and
Technology physics students earn 2.9% more than the average physics student." -
College Factual 2018 Physics Best Value Rankings
"New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology is the best choice for students
considering a Chemical Engineering degree." - College Factual 2018 Chemical
Engineering Best Value Rankings
"New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology is the best choice if you are
thinking about a college degree in Mechanical Engineering. Experience a high
concentration on mechanical engineering inside the degree program at New Mexico
Tech
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              637 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                           Ledger (Lakeland, Florida)

                            August 20, 1999, Friday
                               Correction Appended

REPORT RANKS FSC 4TH 'BEST VALUE'

BYLINE: JULIA FERRANTE The Ledger

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 802 words


LAKELAND -- Florida Southern College is ranked the fourth "best value" among
regional liberal arts colleges in the South, in the 2000 issue of America's Best
Colleges, published by U.S. News & World Report.

The new ranking, which was released today, boosts FSC up a notch from last
year's edition and up four notches since the edition two years ago. No other
Florida colleges were in the top 10 best values category.

With an average tuition of $ 10,290 and 74 percent of students receiving grants
based on need, the local Methodist-founded college tied King College in
Tennessee for the No. 4 spot. It was below Lynn College and the University of
the Ozarks in Arkansas and Claffin College in South Carolina.

FSC also ranked No. 16 overall among the best regional liberal arts colleges,
tied with Coker College in South Carolina and above Flagler College in St.
Augustine, which was ranked No. 21.

"It's nice to be continued to be listed in a positive way," FSC President Thomas
Reuschling said. "Hopefully this reinforces to all, whether they are students or
contemplating being students, that this is a good value. Good value really means
quality education at an affordable cost."

Only regional liberal arts colleges in the top 25 percent were considered for
the best value ranking.

The overall ranking was based on a number of factors, including the college's
academic rating of 3.3 out of 5, a low student-to-faculty ratio of 17 to one and
its graduation rate of 48 percent.

Florida Southern gave $ 9.2 million in financial aid to students last year. That
amounted to an average tuition discount of 46 percent per student.

Glen Berree, associate director of admissions at FSC, said the ranking will help
make FSC known to potential students who otherwise would not have heard of
Florida Southern.

Monday's edition of U.S. News & World Report will contain national and regional
rankings of top universities and colleges, said Emily Adcock, a spokeswoman for
the magazine.

The Aug. 30 edition of the magazine will contain stories about paying for
colleges, financial aid and best values, such as the FSC ranking.

The California Institute of Technology, for the first time, tops the magazine's
annual ranking of the nation's colleges. The other top national universities for
this year are: Harvard, No. 2; the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, No.3;
Princeton University and Yale University, sharing the No. 4 spot; Stanford
University, No.6; Duke University, Johns Hopkins University and the University
of Pennsylvania, sharing the No. 7 spot; and Columbia University at No. 10.

Some of the rankings will be posted today on U.S. News Web site, www.usnews.com

The guide containing all the listings will be available in bookstores Tuesday.

Material from The Associated Press was used in this article.

BEST IN FLORIDA

Here are Florida schools and their ranking:

Best national universities, University of Florida, No. 49

Second tier national universities -- Florida State University, University of
Miami

Third tier national universities -- Florida International University, University
of South Florida

Fourth tier national universities -- Florida Atlantic University, Florida
Institute of Technology, Nova Southeastern University

Top 50 public national universities -- University of Florida, No. 16, Florida
State University, No. 46

Highest proportion classes under 20, national universities --

Nova Southeastern University

Top regional universities in the South -- Rollins College, No. 2; Stetson
University, No. 3

Second tier universities in the South -- Barry University, Embry Riddle
Aeronautical University, Florida A&M University, Jacksonville University,
University of North Florida, University of Tampa, University of West Florida

Fourth tier universities in the South -- St. Thomas University.

Best regional liberal arts colleges in the South -- Florida Southern College,
No. 16; Flagler College, No. 21

Second tier regional liberal arts colleges in the South --

Bethume-Cookman College, Palm Beach Atlantic College, St. Leo College

Third tier liberal arts colleges in the South -- Clearwater Christian College

Fourth tier regional liberal arts colleges in the South --

Warner Southern College

Best value national universities -- University of Miami, No. 46

Best value regional universities in the South -- Stetson University, No. 8

Best value regional liberal arts colleges in the South -- Florida Southern
College, No. 4

Least student debt, regional liberal arts colleges in the South

-- Clearwater Christian College

Most student debt, national universities -- Nova Southeastern University;
Florida Institute of Technology

Most student debt, regional liberal arts colleges -- Warner Southern College

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 21, 1999

CORRECTION:

A graphic on page B2 on Friday incorrectly spelled Bethune-Cookman College.

             Copyright 1999 Lakeland Ledger Publishing Corporation


                              638 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Irish News

                            October 3, 2013 Thursday

Trinity slumps in league table

BYLINE: Simon Doyle, Education Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 371 words


The fall of Ireland's flagship university down an international league table
should be "cause for alarm".

Trinity College Dublin has slumped in The Times Higher Education magazine's
latest rankings, although other Irish institutions have improved considerably.

The magazine has listed the overall world top 200 rankings, and banded lists of
a further 200 'best of the rest'.

The rankings judged universities on 13 areas, including research, teaching and
international activity.

While Trinity emerged as Ireland's top university again, it fell from 110th
place last year to 129th.

University College Dublin also placed in the top 200 - rising 26 places - while
University College Cork, NUI Galway and NUI Maynooth all appeared on the best of
the rest list.

Queen's University Belfast is back in the same 251-275 band in which it placed
two years ago, having dropped into the 276-300 band last year.

The University of Ulster did not make the top 400 again.

"Trinity College Dublin's decline should be cause for alarm: when the national
flagship falls, it can affect the standing of the rest of the country," said
Phil Baty, the editor of Times Higher Education Rankings.

"However, at least University College Dublin and University College Cork both
had strong years - the latter edging closer to the top 200."

The latest rankings suggest that the UK has the second best system worldwide,
behind the US.

Ireland is 16th overall, with the same number of universities in the top 200 as
China, Singapore and Israel.

Seven of the best 10 universities are located in the US, with California
Institute of Technology topping the table for the third consecutive year.

Harvard, Oxford, Stanford and Massachusetts Institute of Technology completed
the top five. Europe generally fared badly this year and the continent's
difficulties contrasted with progress for most leading east Asian universities.

"The power shift from west to east is not as dramatic this year as the US and
the UK have both managed to arrest alarming falls at the national level," Mr
Baty added.

"But the trend is continuing: the vast majority of continental Europe's leading
institutions have slipped, while those leading the east Asian nations have for
the most part risen yet again."

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              639 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              April 8, 2007 Sunday

Law deans hate rankings, love new ranks

BYLINE: BY PAUL TOSTO Pioneer Press

SECTION: BREAKING; Education; Minnesota-Twin Cities; News

LENGTH: 711 words


William Mitchell College of Law Dean Allen Easley joined more than 100 deans
last spring to attack U.S. News World Report's annual college rankings as flawed
and "unworthy of being an important influence" on how students decide which law
school to attend.

A few weeks ago, new rankings came out - and Mitchell looked pretty good.

"Mitchell Moves Up in National Ranking," read a March 30 college news release
that included statements from the heads of Mitchell's trustee and alumni boards,
expressing pride in the ranking and an "affirmation that the college is on the
move forward."

Deans from Maryland to California found themselves in similar positions
recently, decrying the rankings but applauding when the numbers fell in their
favor.

"You can't claim to be oppressed by the rankings and simultaneously celebrate
them," University of Wisconsin law professor Gordon Smith wrote last week on his
blog.

College officials say it's more complicated than that. True, they don't like the
rankings, but students, alumni and others judge a school based on those annual
reports, and schools can't ignore how the game is played.

"The rankings are an evil we are forced to live with," Easley said. "Sadly,
however, I think the rankings exert an important influence on students who are
deciding which law school they should attend." Mitchell, he added, was hurt by
its fourth-tier status.

"I would like it even better if U.S. News ranked us even higher," he said. "That
doesn't mean that if this happened I would think the rankings were more valid.
It just means that they would not harm us in the way they do when they
significantly undervalue our strengths."

Some observers don't buy it. "For anyone to celebrate their nonsensical ranking
is an embarrassment to the academic profession, and for anyone who signed a
letter denouncing the rankings to do so is worse," said Brian Leiter, a
University of Texas law professor who blogs extensively on law school issues,
including rankings.

In their open letter to law school applicants, the deans cited first-year class
size, diversity, faculty specialties and other qualities students value that
U.S. News doesn't judge and urged students to minimize the rankings' influence.

Forty percent of the magazine's main law rankings are based on perceptions of
judges and leaders of other law schools. The next largest chunk, 18 percent, is
linked to employment rates for students after graduation, data critics say is
ripe for manipulation.

The 100-plus deans dismissed U.S. News as "a ranking system that exemplifies the
shortcomings of all 'by the numbers' schemes."

But it's hard to walk away from praise.

The University of St. Thomas Law School made the U.S. News list this year for
the first time, placing in the third tier with Mitchell. "We are quite pleased
with this first ranking," wrote Dean Thomas Mengler - who, like Easley, signed
the earlier letter, as did Hamline University Law School Dean Jon Garon.

Still, when Hamline's dispute resolution program ranked third - tied with
Harvard Law School - in the newest U.S. News report, the school put out a
statement headlined, "Hamline University School of Law Rises in Prestigious
National Rankings."

The statement focused on the dispute resolution program, which is a pure peer
review, Garon added. While subjective, "it is at least limited to those
individuals who are likely to have direct knowledge of the field," he said.

"I would still be pleased if Hamline were to be evaluated more highly in those
rankings, because an inappropriately low score has a negative impact.
Nonetheless, I am always ambivalent regarding U.S. News," he added.

Can you have it both ways?

"I think the tension is a bit more nuanced," Garon said. "The problem with U.S.
News is not that it exists, and not even that its general methodology is
inherently flawed. The problem is that it plays far too great a role in shaping
opinion. Given that problem, ignoring it is not a symmetrical response."

Of the four Twin Cities law schools, only the University of Minnesota stayed
quiet when the U.S. News 2008 rankings came out two weeks ago. It slipped from
19th to 20th in the list of best law schools in the country.

Paul Tosto covers higher education and can be reached at ptosto@pioneerpress.com
or 651-228-2119.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              640 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 3, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Sidetracked by SATs

BYLINE: Joanne V. Creighton

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 776 words


Across the nation, eager high school seniors are now struggling to put the
finishing touches on applications to colleges and universities. What
institutions students choose and whether those schools in turn choose them could
be life-defining decisions. Yet too often those decisions are influenced by the
misleading ways in which both students and institutions are reduced to numbers
by the SAT and annual college rankings.

SAT scores have assumed a central role in the admissions process disproportional
to their value. While this test has some ability to predict student performance
in the first year of college, it falls far short of predicting overall academic
or career success and a host of other aptitudes that educators and society
value, such as intellectual curiosity, motivation, persistence, leadership,
creativity, civic engagement and social conscience.

Since Mount Holyoke's announcement in June that we are making submission of SAT
scores optional for a research period of five years, we have been inundated by
e-mails and letters from high school guidance counselors, principals and
headmasters applauding our decision and expressing consternation over the
misguided importance this test has assumed. They want their students to focus on
educationally productive activities, not on test-prep skills, and so do we.

Casting a skeptical eye on the SAT and refusing to reduce a student to a number
is a step in the right direction. Now colleges and universities must refuse to
reduce ourselves to numbers as well. The SAT has developed a strange
relationship with another set of numbers -- annual college rankings -- that are
even more specious.

The average SAT score of an institution's incoming class influences how that
school does in college rankings, such as those manufactured annually by U.S.
News & World Report magazine. Admission officers at many leading colleges and
universities often reject or discount students who may be well qualified but
whose SAT scores will "hurt" that institution's SAT average in the rankings. At
the same time, there is also a widely held belief among high school guidance
counselors that some selective schools are cagily using early decision, early
action and wait lists to manipulate their acceptance rates and yields to improve
their performance.

First students and then colleges themselves are caught in a perniciously
reductive numbers game, which is intensified to a fever pitch as students
compete to get into top schools and as top schools compete for students and
prestige. On the one hand, a thriving and downright exploitative test-prep
business has developed around the frenzied preoccupation with testing among many
high school students -- if, that is, their parents have the money to invest in
these services.

On the other hand, college administrators are preoccupied with ways to boost
their own scores in U.S. News and other annual rankings and guidebooks, many of
which are modeled or based on the approach taken by that magazine. The flawed
methodology and rationale, the commercial motivations and the widespread
influence of the U.S. News rankings have had a far more negative effect on
higher education than have standardized tests.

According to a recent Washington Monthly cover story, U.S. News found its own
methodology without "any defensible empirical or theoretical basis" in an
internal study in 1997. Gerhard Casper, then president of Stanford, wrote to the
editor of U.S. News in 1996: "I am extremely skeptical that the quality of a
university -- any more than the quality of a magazine -- can be measured
statistically. However, even if it can, the producers of the U.S. News rankings
remain far from discovering the method."

Further, in its focus on input measures (SAT scores, rank in class, acceptance
rate, money spent per student) rather than on the educational growth of
students, U.S. News skirts the issue of how effective colleges are in actually
teaching students.

Not only is the U.S. News methodology highly questionable, the magazine tinkers
with aspects of its ranking formulas from year to year with the result, if not
the intent, that colleges jump from place to place on an annual basis. It's
absurd to think that academic excellence could rise and fall precipitously year
to year and that you could rank-order institutions so precisely.

Even so, colleges and universities themselves often buy into this race and give
the rankings more lip service than they deserve. It is time for leaders in
higher education to speak out against a ranking system that we know lacks
credibility and validity.

The writer is president of Mount Holyoke College.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              641 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Leadership (Abuja)

                                  May 12, 2015

University of Ibadan, Unn, Abu Top Varsities in Nigeria

LENGTH: 278 words


The University of Ibadan tops the overall ranking in Nigeria with a Total
Influence Factor (TIF) of 41.22. This is closely followed by the University of
Nigeria (TIF:39.96) and Ahmadu Bello University (TIF: 35.57). Here are the top
ten institutions in Nigeria.

Rank Institution

Total Influence Factor

1

University of Ibadan

41.22

2

University of Nigeria

39.96

3

Ahmadu Bello University

35.57

4

University of Lagos

34.48

5

Obafemi Awolowo University

33.85

6

University of Benin

32.96

7

University of Ilorin

31.27

8

University of Port Harcourt

29.24

9

Nnamdi Azikiwe University

26.53

10

University of Calabar

26.52

Covenant University (TIF: 41.22) tops the private universities in Nigeria.
Babcock

University (TIF: 14.30) and Igbinedion University (TIF: 9.45) make up the top
three

private universities in Nigeria. 49 private universities were featured in the

ranking.

Rank

Institution

Total Influence Factor

1

Covenant University

23.56

2

Babcock University

14.30

3

Igbinedion University

9.45

In the 2015 ranking for Polytechnics and Monotechnics in Nigeria, Yaba College
of

Technology (TIF: 10.20), The Polytechnic Ibadan (TIF: 9.65) and Kaduna
Polytechnic

(TIF: 9.40). There are 120 Nigerian Polytechnics and Monotechnics in the ranking
.

Rank

Institution

Total Influence Factor

1

Yaba College of Technology

10.20

2

The Polytechnic Ibadan

9.65

3

Kaduna Polytechnic

9.40

Adeyemi College of Education (TIF: 8.00) tops the 99 Colleges of Education
featured

in the 2015 ranking. Federal College of Education Zaria (TIF: 7.78), College of

Education Minna (TIF: 7.69) are in the second and third positions.

Rank

Institution

Total Influence Factor

1

Adeyemi College of Education

8.00

2

Federal College of Education Zaria

7.78

3

College of Education Minna

7.69

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              642 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 19, 2015 Monday

New York: Canisius Gets High Marks in College Rankings

LENGTH: 660  words

DATELINE: Albany


Canisius College, The State of New York has issued the following news release:

Several college rankings are out and Canisius has received high marks.  Canisius
earned the 27th spot in the top tier of U.S. News and World Report's 2015
rankings of America's Best Regional Universities - North for the third
consecutive year.  U.S. News named 135 universities in this category.

          The annual rankings are one resource that students and parents use to
evaluate their college choices.  The results are based on a proprietary
methodology of statistics for 16 indicators of academic excellence.  Each
indicator is assigned a weight and expressed as a percentage.  Colleges are then
ranked based on their composite scores.  The categories in which schools are
listed are based on the classifications created by the Carnegie Foundation for
the Advancement of Teaching.

          "It is an honor to be consistently ranked among the top regional
universities in the North," said Richard A. Wall, PhD, vice president for
academic affairs. "Our placement is a result of the expertise of our faculty and
rich academic programs that lead Canisius students to successful careers that
contribute to the betterment of society and their professions."

          U.S .News also ranked Canisius eighth in the 2015 "Great Schools,
Great Prices" listing among regional universities in the North. This is the
third consecutive year Canisius has been in the top 10 in this category.

          U.S. News named only 15 regional universities in the North to its
"best value" list. U.S. News classifies regional universities as those that
provide a full range of undergraduate majors and master's programs, and tends to
draw students most heavily from surrounding states.  The methodology for the
annual ranking looks at three variables:  The ratio of academic quality to
price, need-based aid and the average discount.

          U.S. News also ranked Canisius among the top institutes of higher
education for military veterans.  Canisius earned the seventh spot among 49
regional universities in the North on the Best Colleges for Veterans ranking for
2015. This is the second year Canisius has ranked in the top 10 on this list.

          The rankings recognize colleges and universities that participate in
federal initiatives designed to help veterans and active service members apply,
pay for and complete their degrees.  Canisius instituted an Office of Veterans
Services in March 2011 to meet the needs of a growing veteran student
population, which has more than doubled since 2007. "Canisius is proud to be
able to provide our veterans with excellent graduate and undergraduate options
that are flexible, affordable and meet their educational goals," said Wall.

          To be considered for U.S. News & World Report's Best Colleges for
Veterans ranking, schools had to be certified for the GI Bill, participate in
the Yellow Ribbon Program and be members of the Servicemembers Opportunity
Colleges (SOC) Consortium, a group that works to simplify credit transfers for
veterans.

          In additional rankings, Canisius was named a 2015 "College of
Distinction" in the Colleges of Distinction guidebook for the third consecutive
year. The annual publication recognizes higher education institutions,
nationwide, that excel at four distinctions: An engaged student body, great
teaching, a vibrant campus community, and successful outcomes

          The Colleges of Distinction guidebook recognized Canisius for its
small class sizes, exciting academic programs, strong faculty interaction,
innovative learning experiences, and for providing opportunities to students for
personal development.

          Forbes named Canisius to its list of 2015 Top Colleges.  This ranking
measures student satisfaction, post graduate success, graduation rates and
academic success.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.coma

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              643 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    September 24, 1993, Friday, City Edition

3 Florida colleges named among the South's best

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 317 words



U. S. News & World Report magazine has chosen three Florida colleges as among
the best regional institutions of higher education in the South. Those schools
are Florida International University in Miami, Rollins College in Winter Park,
and Stetson University with campuses in Gulfport and in DeLand.

The schools are part of a ranking of 15 higher education institutions in  the
South, according to U.S. News & World Report officials. Wake Forest  University
in North Carolina was ranked No. 1 in the region.

Rankings also have been completed for the North, Midwest and West.

Officials with the magazine said they chose the regional winners out of 559
accredited four-year schools. In the national competition, magazine officials
looked at 1,371 schools and placed them in 14 different categories including
best liberal arts colleges and best specialty schools.

No Florida universities made it into the ranking of the top 25 best  national
universities.

Rankings were based on a number of criteria including how selective a
university is in choosing students, financial resources and graduation rates.
Guidelines are based on those put out by the Carnegie Foundation for the
Advancement of Teaching.

Magazine officials also surveyed more than 2,600 educators around the  country.

The 15 colleges chosen as the best schools in the south region are, in  order,
Wake Forest University, Winston-Salem, N. C.; University of Richmond,  Va.;
Berea College, Ky.; Stetson University; Rollins College; Mercer  University,
Macon, Ga.; Samford University, Ala.; Florida International  University;
University of Alabama at Huntsville; Loyola University, New  Orleans;
Appalachian State University, Boone, N.C.; The Citadel, Charleston,  S.C.; James
Madison University, Harrisonburg, Va.; Hampton University, Va.;  and the
University of North Carolina at Asheville.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

                            Times Publishing Company


                              644 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           September 15, 2017 Friday

UMFK named to top North Region Colleges U.S. News and World Report's 2018
rankings

LENGTH: 340 words


FORT KENT, Maine -- The University of Maine at Fort Kent has been named among
the top tier of all north region colleges for the seventh consecutive year,
according to the U.S. News and World Report 2018 rankings.


The latest U.S. News & World Report rankings put UMFK in the top tier, ranked
31st. That ranks UMFK 15th among public colleges in the North and follows
seventh consecutive year as a top-15 public institution. UMFK first achieved
top-tier college status in U.S. News and World Report's 2011 rankings. UMFK is
also ranked as #5 among the Regional Colleges in the North with the most
international students.


"These rankings are represent the dedication of UMFK staff and faculty to the
overall educational experience," according to UMFK President John Short. "We are
more committed than ever to affordability and student success in an environment
that promotes diversity, inclusion and lifelong learners," he added. "This US
news ranking demonstrates that we are being successful in moving toward that
goal."


U.S. News and World Report bases the U.S. ranking on key measures that education
experts have proposed as reliable indicators of academic quality. The indices
include peer assessment; graduation and retention rates; faculty resources;
student selectivity; financial resources; and alumni giving.


The U.S. News rating system rests on two pillars. The formula relies on
quantitative measures that education experts have proposed as reliable
indicators of academic quality, and, are based on U.S. News' researched view of
what matters in education.


The North region includes the states of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont,
Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, and Maryland.


For prospective students and their families, the 2018 U.S. News rankings provide
an excellent starting point to help identify colleges and universities that are
right for them, because they offer the opportunity to judge the relative quality
of institutions based on widely-accepted indicators of excellence.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Bangor Daily News


                              645 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           September 15, 2017 Friday

UMFK named to top North Region Colleges U.S. News and World Report's 2018
rankings

LENGTH: 340 words


FORT KENT, Maine -- The University of Maine at Fort Kent has been named among
the top tier of all north region colleges for the seventh consecutive year,
according to the U.S. News and World Report 2018 rankings.


The latest U.S. News & World Report rankings put UMFK in the top tier, ranked
31st. That ranks UMFK 15th among public colleges in the North and follows
seventh consecutive year as a top-15 public institution. UMFK first achieved
top-tier college status in U.S. News and World Report's 2011 rankings. UMFK is
also ranked as #5 among the Regional Colleges in the North with the most
international students.


"These rankings are represent the dedication of UMFK staff and faculty to the
overall educational experience," according to UMFK President John Short. "We are
more committed than ever to affordability and student success in an environment
that promotes diversity, inclusion and lifelong learners," he added. "This US
news ranking demonstrates that we are being successful in moving toward that
goal."


U.S. News and World Report bases the U.S. ranking on key measures that education
experts have proposed as reliable indicators of academic quality. The indices
include peer assessment; graduation and retention rates; faculty resources;
student selectivity; financial resources; and alumni giving.


The U.S. News rating system rests on two pillars. The formula relies on
quantitative measures that education experts have proposed as reliable
indicators of academic quality, and, are based on U.S. News' researched view of
what matters in education.


The North region includes the states of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont,
Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, and Maryland.


For prospective students and their families, the 2018 U.S. News rankings provide
an excellent starting point to help identify colleges and universities that are
right for them, because they offer the opportunity to judge the relative quality
of institutions based on widely-accepted indicators of excellence.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Bangor Daily News


                              646 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                           September 13, 2011 Tuesday

BYU 71st overall, U. 124th in annual Best Colleges rankings

BYLINE: Geoffrey Fattah Deseret News

LENGTH: 302 words


SALT LAKE CITY ? Utah's colleges and universities pretty much held their place
among the U.S. News & World Report's Best Colleges annual rankings. Among the
notable numbers, Brigham Young University's accounting program ranked fourth
best in the nation.

BYU also ranked 13th in best value schools, moving up seven spots from last
year. "We're pleased anytime we receive a ranking," said BYU spokesman Todd
Hollingshead. "In particular, the great price ranking, that's something that we
certainly strive to do: offer a great education to our students at an affordable
cost. It's nice to have that recognition." BYU ranked 71st in overall national
universities, leading Utah's higher education institutions. The University of
Utah ranked 124th and Utah State University ranked 170th. The U.'s David Eccles
School of Business moved up 12 spots to rank 55th in the nation for business
schools. "We've been working to improve our programs and get the word out to the
better students we hope to attract," said Taylor Randall, dean of the Eccles
School of Business. "We realize the rankings aren't perfect, but this is an
indicator of the work we've been doing over the past few years." The U.'s S.J.
Quinney College of Law and BYU's J. Reuben Clark Law School tied for the second
year in ranking 42nd in the nation's best law schools. Utah's only school of
medicine, at the U., ranked 26th for primary care education and 54th for medical
research. This year Harvard and Princeton universities were tied for first place
on the list of top national universities, with Yale and Columbia following close
behind. Among Western regional universities, Westminster College led Utah's
colleges, ranking 26th in the nation. Weber State University was ranked 76 and
Utah Valley University was not ranked. E-mail: gfattah@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                              647 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             April 10, 2017 Monday
                                 Delhi Edition

6 DU colleges in NIRF's top 10

SECTION: EDUCATION TIMES

LENGTH: 243 words


Six colleges of the University of Delhi (DU) were among the top 10 in the
relevant category of the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF)
announced recently. These are Miranda House (first), Shri Ram College of
Commerce (third), Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma (fifth), Lady Shri Ram College for
Women (seventh), Dyal Singh College (eighth) and Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College
(ninth). The rankings are awarded only to participating institutions, which is
why some colleges are missing from the list.

Union minister of human resource development (HRD) Prakash Javadekar announced
the rankings in which 3,300 institutions took part across categories.Though the
NIRF was launched in 2016, the college category has been introduced this year.

In the 'university' category, Jawaharlal Nehru University is in second place and
University of Delhi in eighth.Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) was on the 12th rung.

JNU has not been awarded the rank for its anti-national slogans, but for the
research it has carried out, said Javadekar.

The ministry seeks to improve the quality of education by offering more grants
and funds to higher-ranked institutions, he said while announcing the list in
Delhi.

Mahendra Nath Pandey, minister of state for HRD (higher education), said,
\x93These rankings help to develop quality education and competition among
institutions. The rankings have also held these institutions accountable.\x93

> For the complete story, visit http:www.educationtimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              648 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   September 4, 1991, Wednesday, City Edition

New College rated good buy

BYLINE: JAMES HARPER

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 339 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



New College, an unconventional honors program at the University of South Florida
in Sarasota, once again has won national attention.

    The 500-student college placed second on Money magazine's second annual list
of "best college buys in America." Rice University, a 100-year-old private
school in Houston, ranked first.

    New College began as a private liberal arts college in 1960 but was taken
over by the state in 1974 because of financial difficulties.  Students pay low
state tuition, while private fund-raisers help maintain the school's low
student/faculty ratio.

    As part of USF's Sarasota campus, the magazine says, New College "makes its
home in a cluster of buildings on the old Ringling family estate on the shore of
balmy Sarasota Bay, but its academic program is no day at the beach."

    The magazine praises the college's unconventional curriculum of tutorials,
labs, fieldwork and apprenticeships, which students help design for themselves.
There are no core requirements or grades.

    "New Collegians won't survive unless they exhibit high intellectual purpose
and tremendous self-discipline, so applicants should expect to be able to jump
through more hoops than a Ringling Bros. lion," the magazine says.

    This isn't the first high national ranking for New College. The school
routinely appears in surveys such as "The Public Ivys: A Guide to America's Best
Public Undergraduate Colleges and Universities."

    Money, the special college guide of which goes on sale next week, said its
rankings are based on statistical measures on quality of students, faculty and
facilities, as well as annual tuition cost.

    Rounding out this year's top 10 are Trenton (N.J.) State College; University
of Virginia; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; California Institute of
Technology; State University of New York at Binghamton; University of
Washington; University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill; and University of Texas
at Austin.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

                            Times Publishing Company


                              649 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Redlands Daily Facts (California)

                          September 14, 2017 Thursday

University of Redlands ranked among best regional universities

BYLINE: Roxana Kopetman; rkopetman@scng.com @roxanakopetman on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 565 words

ABSTRACT

U.S. News & World Report has released its annual rankings of American colleges
and universities.

FULL TEXT

University of Redlands is among the best regional universities in the West,
according to U.S. News & World Report's latest rankings for public and private
universities in the nation.

U of R ranks 12th among regional universities in the West, a list topped by
Trinity University in San Antonio.

The online magazine, which released its rankings on Tuesday, evaluated 1,800
schools based on up to 15 criteria, including class size, standardized test
scores of incoming students and average graduation rates.

Although as any student or parent can vouch, the best campus for a particular
student includes factors well beyond what any list provides, these annual
rankings are taken seriously by many.

"College rankings are researched and valued by many prospective students and
families, and we appreciate that the University of Redlands continues to be
recognized in many rankings as a top university in the West," U of R chief
communications officer Wendy Shattuck said in a statement. "We look forward to
continuing our 107-year legacy of providing a personalized education in which
students can pursue their passions and potential and engage with a world of
opportunity."

In that overall list, which includes private and public American universities,
the usual schools are at the top: Princeton, Harvard, the University of Chicago,
Yale, Columbia, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Stanford. Those
schools must offer a range of undergraduate majors, master's and doctoral
programs to be considered.

Meanwhile, University of California campuses dominated the magazine's rankings
for best public universities in the nation, with UCLA tied for first with UC
Berkeley.

UC Santa Barbara was ranked eighth, while UC Irvine and UC San Diego tied for
ninth along with the University of Florida, and UC Davis came in at 12.

Overall, the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena was the highest-
ranking university in Southern California at 10th best, with USC, Cal and UCLA
all finishing in 21st place.

UC Riverside tied with four other schools, including the University of Arizona,
for No. 58 among top public schools; and is No. 124 among all national
universities.

Cal State Fullerton is among a few CSU schools that placed in the national
rankings: No. 109 among top public schools and No. 202 among national
universities.

Another U.S. News list, which analyzes liberal arts colleges, included three
schools that are part of the Claremont Colleges consortium: Pomona College took
sixth place, Claremont McKenna College came in eighth, and Harvey Mudd College
was tied for 12th.

Among the Southern California schools recognized with U of R in the regional
universities list are Loyola Marymount in Los Angeles as third best for the
sixth-year running. Chapman University in Orange came in fifth.

U.S. News states that its formula uses mostly objective measures of academic
quality, such as graduation rates and admission data. But the rankings are
criticized by some for, among other things, how data is collected: For example,
academic reputations are factored in.

U.S. News spokeswoman Enxhi Myslymi defended the rankings.

"Our ultimate mission is to provide students and families with credible,
comprehensive data that allows them to make better college choices," she said in
an e-mail.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              650 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           September 11, 2012 Tuesday

Irish universities still struggling in world rankings

BYLINE: SEÁN FLYNN, Education Editor

SECTION: IRELAND; Other stories; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 592 words


LEADING UNIVERSITIES here are continuing to struggle in the latest World
University Rankings, published this morning.

TCD is the only Irish university to be ranked in the top 100 and it is down two
places, to 67. UCD is up marginally to 131 but it has again failed to make it
into the elite top 100.

Five years ago, TCD was ranked inside the elite top 50 and UCD was comfortably
inside the top 100 in various international league tables. Among other colleges,
UCC is down marginally to 190 while NUI Galway and DCU are both slightly up, to
287 and 324 respectively.

University presidents had been bracing themselves for even worse news in the
latest rankings. In the past two years, the higher education sector has
accommodated record numbers of students with much depleted resources.

The disappointing results are certain to reopen the debate about higher
education funding. Minister for Education Ruairí Quinn has signalled that the
student contribution will increase to EUR 3,000 by 2015   but even this will do
little to close the funding gap between Irish universities and their key
international competitors.

While there is little overall movement in the rankings for Ireland, QS   which
compiles the rankings   is not optimistic these will move significantly upward
in the short to medium term.

It points out how all seven Irish universities and the Dublin Institute of
Technology (DIT) have lost ground in one key area   their reputation among
employers.

The compilers warn that the reputation of most Irish colleges is also being
undermined by the 6 per cent cut in staff numbers which has pushed up the
staff/students ratio. Employer reputation and staff/student ratio make up 30 per
cent of the ranking methodology.

Ben Sowter, head of research at QS, said last night that prolonged drops in
staff/student ratio were  likely to have long-term detrimental effects on the
reputation of Irish institutions as well as their position in the QS World
University Rankings .

The new rankings could also reopen the debate about closer links between Ireland
s two top-ranked colleges, TCD and UCD. While both colleges have established a
research merger, some senior education figures believe still closer co-operation
is needed to boost Ireland s international reputation in education.

TCD provost Prof Paddy Prendergast said cuts to higher education funding at a
time of increased global investment were having a direct impact on Irish
rankings.

UCD president Dr Hugh Brady said the university had solidified its status among
the top 200 worldwide. He gave credit to staff who, despite budgetary pressures,
are producing world-class research. UCD s citations (ie the level of reference
to a research paper by academics from other universities) rose by over 35 per
cent.

Rankings for the other Irish colleges are DIT: 451-500, down from 401-500; UL
451-500, unchanged and NUI Maynooth, 501-550 also unchanged.

At the top, MIT has overtaken Cambridge University as the world s best
university, pushing the five-times top-ranked Harvard University into third
place.

While the accuracy of these rankings is often questioned, they are a key
resource used to attract international students. Irish colleges have been
seeking to recruit international students, in part to close the current funding
shortfall, but the latest rankings will do little to bolster these efforts.

The QS World University Rankings is an annual league table of the world s top
700 universities. The rankings are based on four key pillars   research,
teaching, employability and internationalisation.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              651 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Albany Herald (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           September 18, 2017 Monday

Albany State named top public HBCU in the state of Georgia

BYLINE: The Albany Herald, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 238 words


Sept. 18--ALBANY -- Albany State University was recently ranked among the
nation's top Historically Black Colleges and Universities and named the No. 1
public HBCU in the state of Georgia, according to U.S. News and World Report's
2018 list of top-ranked colleges and universities.

ASU made the cut at No. 14 among all public HBCUs in the nation. Albany State
ranks No.27 among all private and public HBCUs nationwide, moving up the ranking
from No. 32 on last year's list. ASU shares the current spot with Bennet
College, Norfolk State University and Winston-Salem State University.

According to the rankings, ASU pulled ahead of Georgia's public HBCUs -- Fort
Valley State University and Savannah State University. The rankings are based on
graduation and retention rates, peer assessments, student-to-faculty ratio,
admission test scores and the strength of the faculty. Alumni giving was also
considered.

The U.S. News & World Report ranking adds to the university's current state and
national designations. ASU also ranks No. 4 among Georgia colleges, according to
Affordable Colleges Online's annual ranking of the Best Online Colleges of
2016-2017.

The university has also been named a military friendly institution for service
members seeking education and training to pursue a civilian career.

___ (c)2017 The Albany Herald, Ga. Visit The Albany Herald, Ga. at
www.albanyherald.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20170918-1AH-Albany-State-named-top-public-HBCU-in-the-state-of-Georgia-0918-201
70918

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AH


                        Copyright 2017 The Albany Herald


                              652 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Richmond Register (Kentucky)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           August 30, 2017 Wednesday

Berea College ranked top liberal arts college in nation

BYLINE: Ricki Barker, Richmond Register, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 975 words


Aug. 30--As local college students settle into a routine this fall semester,
they can check one worry off their lists and focus more on grades and project
deadlines and less on whether they chose the right place for their education.

For the second year in a row, Berea College has been ranked by Washington
Monthly as the nation's top liberal arts college. Berea also earned the top spot
in the magazine's "Best Bang for the Buck" rankings of colleges in the South.

Nearby, Eastern Kentucky University ranks second among all public universities
in Kentucky in the annual "Best Bang for the Buck" rankings, scoring highest in
the category of earnings performance. Only Murray State University ranked higher
overall in the survey.

Since 2005, Washington Monthly has released an annual College Guide and rankings
which are not based on ACT scores, the number of applications rejected or class
sizes.

Instead, Washington Monthly rates institutions of higher learning on metrics
that focus on what colleges are doing for the good of the country at large and
how they choose to educate theirs students.

"Unlike the prestige and wealth driven metrics put out by the likes of U.S. News
and World Report, our ranking measures what colleges do for their country"
writes Washington Monthly reporter Kevin Carey. "Instead of rewarding colleges
for the number of applications they reject, we give them credit for enrolling
unusually large numbers of low-income and first-generation students. Instead of
assuming that the most expensive schools are also the best, we recognize
universities that produce research, train the next generation of scientists and
PhDs and instill their graduates with an ethos of public service."

The publication measures schools' success in three key areas -- social mobility
(admitting and graduating low-income students), research and Ph.D. production,
and community service -- to determine the rankings.

For two years in a row, Berea College has been recognized by the magazine as the
best liberal arts college that excels in all those metrics.

"Recognition for Berea College and our success in serving low-income students is
especially gratifying," said Berea College President Lyle Roelofs. "The criteria
for Washington Monthly rankings focuses on aspects consistent with Berea's
mission."

The president also noted that while other publications rank schools using purely
economic data and peer surveys that favor wealthy, elite colleges, by contrast,
the Washington Monthly criteria recognizes the value of social mobility,
transformative education and service.

"These values are consistent with Berea's 'Great Commitments' that inform all of
Berea's work and inspire donors to support it," Roelofs continued.

Berea College received top marks by Washington Monthly for the college's unique
four-year tuition promise scholarships and the number of students who graduate
with marketable degrees.

According to information from the college, between 80 and 90 percent of Berea
students receive federal Pell grants and the national graduation rates for that
demographic averages only in the mid-teens. By contrast, about two-thirds of
Berea's students graduate on time and a healthy number go on to earn Ph.Ds. as
well as other advanced degrees.

Roelofs said both rankings are a reflection on the college's promise that Berea
students can truly worry more about getting an education and less about taking
on debt.

"Berea serves a diverse population of talented, low-income students from
Appalachia and around the world," Roelofs said. "Berea College provides all of
our students a four-year Tuition Promise Scholarship, which guarantees they will
not pay tuition. Doing so ensures our students can focus on getting an education
instead of worrying about how they will pay for it or taking on high levels of
debt. With nearly 50 percent of our graduates pursuing an advanced degree and 50
percent working in service-related occupations, Berea College alumni are leaders
in their professions and engaged citizens in their communities."

While private college Berea College earned the top spot on the list, EKU
outpaced its competitors by several spots as one of the top public universities
in Kentucky on the magazine's "Best Bang for the Buck" ranking.

The rankings compare graduation rate, Pell performance, first-generation
performance, earnings performance, net price of attendance for families with an
income of below $75,000 and predicted repayment rate.

Murray State University was the only public university in Kentucky to be ranked
higher than EKU, which was followed closely by Western Kentucky University.

Northern Kentucky University was ranked at 108, University of Kentucky was
ranked at 141 and University of Louisville was ranked at 221.

"EKU is committed to helping every student reach his or her full potential,"
said Dr. Eugene Palka, vice president for student success at EKU. "Our student
services, programs and activities are, therefore, designed to promote personal
growth, as well as academic success."

The university, while not only being one of the most affordable in the state,
also earned marks from Washington Monthly for its impressive percentage of
employed graduates.

According to a information from the university, 76 percent of EKU degree holders
are employed in Kentucky a year after graduation, the highest percentage among
all public four-year universities in the Commonwealth. Eighty-four percent of
EKU graduates with bachelor's degrees are employed five years post-graduation.

The full Washington Monthly College Rankings and guide can be found online at
washingtonmonthly.com/2017college-guide.

Reach Ricki Barker at 624-6611; follow her on Twitter @RickiBReports.

___ (c)2017 the Richmond Register (Richmond, Ky.) Visit the Richmond Register
(Richmond, Ky.) at richmondregister.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170830-RP-Berea-College-ranked-top-liberal-arts-college
-in-nation-0830-20170830

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RP


                      Copyright 2017 The Richmond Register


                              653 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 13, 2014 Monday

New York: Geneseo Earns Top Undergraduate Teaching Distinction for North in
'U.S. News' Rankings

LENGTH: 497  words

DATELINE: Albany


SUNY Geneseo Collage, The State of New York has issued the following News
release:

SUNY Geneseo tops the "U.S. News & World Report" Best Undergraduate Teaching"
rankings among north region universities in its just-published "Best Colleges
2015" guidebook. Geneseo has ranked first in that category for four of the five
years "U.S. News" has included it in its rankings. The college also is second in
the "Top Public Schools" category and 14th in the general rankings for north
region universities.

"U.S. News" defines a regional university as one that offers a full range of
majors and master's programs but few, if any, doctoral programs.

"We are always pleased to see our strong ranking in undergraduate teaching
because that underpins all that we do at Geneseo," said Carol S. Long, interim
president. "Superb teaching attracts superb students and our faculty's strong
commitment to teaching assures our students of a liberal arts education second
to none in the country, providing them a strong foundation for the job market or
graduate school. The 'U.S. News' rankings, combined with our recent high
'Washington Monthly' ranking for contribution to the public good, are an
excellent reflection of how we are consistently fulfilling our mission."

The "U.S. News" Best Undergraduate Teaching colleges were selected through data
collected from administrators at peer institutions within their region who
identified schools where the faculty demonstrated an unusually strong commitment
to undergraduate teaching.

In the general rankings for north region universities, Geneseo was one of three
public colleges ranked in the top 20. Geneseo also was ranked second in the
Up-and-Comer category for north region universities. Those rankings are
generated from nominations by college administrators who identify institutions
they think have made the most promising and innovative changes recently in the
areas of academics, faculty, student life, campus or facilities.

Geneseo's "U.S. News" rankings follow a strong showing in the August "Washington
Monthly" rankings, in which the college ranked fifth nationally among the
nation's master's universities for its contribution to the public good. In
addition, the highly respected "Fiske Guide to Colleges" placed Geneseo among
its 44 Best Buy Schools in the U.S., Canada and the United Kingdom in its most
recent guide published in July.

"Again this year, we are proud to see so many of our SUNY campuses recognized as
being among the best nationally by 'U.S. News and World Report,'" said SUNY
Chancellor Nancy L. Zimpher. "In every community across New York State, SUNY
colleges and universities like Geneseo offer students top quality degree
programs and applied learning opportunities that prepare them for success in
today's 21st-century global economy. Congratulations to each of the SUNY
campuses making the list for 2015."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              654 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 8, 2013 Thursday

Virginia: Statement of Governor Bob McDonnell on Virginia College Rankings in
Princeton Review's Best Value Colleges for 2013

LENGTH: 359  words

DATELINE: Richmond


Office of the Governor, The State of Virginia has issued the following news
release:

Governor Bob McDonnell issued the following statement today regarding the
Princeton Review's release of the "Best Value Colleges for 2013." Among the 75
best public colleges, the University of Virginia is ranked No. 1 and the College
of William and Mary No. 4. Christopher Newport University, George Mason
University, James Madison University, Longwood University, Radford University,
and Virginia Tech are also on the list. The University of Richmond is on the
list of private colleges. The Princeton Review rankings are based on 30 data
points covering academics, costs and financial aid, as well as the percentage of
graduating seniors who borrowed from any loan program and the average debt those
students had at graduation.

"We continue to see Virginia's public and private colleges lead the rankings of
top colleges and universities nationwide. That is because we truly have one of
the best higher education systems in the world. I want to congratulate the
University of Virginia and the College of William and Mary for their number one
and number four rankings respectively, as well as the nine total Virginia
schools who were ranked among the best value colleges in the nation. Over the
last three years, we have strived to increase access to a top-quality education
in Virginia while making sure our students are adequately prepared for the
top-jobs of tomorrow by placing a greater a greater emphasis on the high demand
subjects of science, technology, engineering and math. At the same time, through
reform-based investments we have worked to get tuition increases in check and
reduce the cost of higher education for Virginia's students. In all, we have
invested close to $400 million into higher education and undergraduate
enrollment at our public and private institutions have increased by 17,000
students. We continue to work to ensure that Virginia's colleges are more
affordable and accessible for our students, and we are seeing the results of
this work in rankings such as these."

For further information please visit: http://www.governor.virginia.gov/

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              655 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday

Pakistan: 58 'failed' students get into Aitchison College

LENGTH: 2735 words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, April 19 -- Fifty-eight "failed" students made it to the prestigious
Aitchison College in 2011, managing admission through the support of influential
figures, mostly PPP bigwigs.

Confidential documents in possession of The News reveal gross violation of merit
in overall admissions last year as the then principal Principal Fakir Syed
Aijazuddin not only accommodated candidates who failed in written examinations
for admission, but also let four students in despite no vacant seats. This
implies that the former principal robbed at least 58 eligible candidates of
their right to ensure a better future in an institution, which had remained a
symbol of excellence for over a century now.

According to the documents, 24 admissions were made in K-2, eight in K-3, three
in K-4, five in K-5 (out of which two were on merit but there were no seats),
nine in E-1 (out of which, one was on merit but there were no seats), four in
E-2 , three in M-1, five in M-2 (out of which, one was on merit, but there were
no seats) and one in C-1.

The procedure for admission to Classes K-1 to K-5 consists of written
examination, interview (boys who reach the qualifying standard and a medical
examination to verify age and health condition). The candidates are examined in
English, Mathematics, Urdu and Reasoning for which 50 percent are the qualifying
marks.

Similarly, procedure of admission to Prep School for Classes E1, E2 and M1
consists of examinations in English, Mathematics, Urdu, Science, a confidential
report from the boy's pervious school, and an interview with the applicant
accompanied by his parents while qualifying marks for written exams are also 50
percent.

Likewise procedure for admission to Senior School for Classes M2 (Grade-9) and
Class C1 (Grade-10) consists of a written examination, a confidential report
from the applicant's previous school and interview with the applicant
accompanied by his parents.

According to sources, the Punjab government's indifferent attitude towards
affairs of the Aitchison College also added a lot to this mess. It is important
to mention here that Chief Secretary Punjab, Finance Secretary and Secretary
Higher Education are ex-officio members of the Aitchison College's Board of
Governors (BoG). The sources said these officials seldom attended the BoG
meetings thus providing a good opportunity to other stakeholders to take
advantage of their absence.

Meanwhile, sources in the Punjab government confirmed this negligence on the
part of the ex-officio members, which, according to them, had harmed the
reputation of this historic institution.

Contrary to its admissions policy, Aitchison College admitted even those
students who performed extremely poorly in the written examination. There were
those who got just 2.8 marks, 3.9 marks and 4.7 marks out of a total 50 marks
and were ranked much below others who appeared in the written exam and were
admitted.

The students who were admitted to Class K-2 in sheer violation of merit are
(full names not being given): Abdullah s/o Jamil (Registration No 07910). He had
secured just 3.9 marks in written exam and was ranked 457 (out of 478). Roshan
s/o Shahjahan (Registration No. 06975) had secured 19.3 marks and was ranked 394
(out of 478). Ali s/o Ahmed (Registration No. 07420) had secured 36.7 marks and
was ranked 321 (out of 478). Hassan s/o Saleem (Registration No. 07849) had 30.7
marks and ranking 348 (out of 478). Ahmed s/o Afzal (Registration No. 07475) had
40.3 marks and ranking 296 (out of 478). Faris s/o Kamran (Registration No.
06968) had 46.6 marks and ranking 243 (out of 478). Mustafa s/o Saif
(Registration No. 06940) secured 40.6 marks and ranked 294 (out of 478). Rahmat
s/o Suhail (Registration No. 07145) had 42.9 marks and ranking 274 (out of 478).
Zohaib s/o Salman (Registration No. 07361) had 38.8 marks and ranking 305 (out
of 478). Raayan s/o Waqas (Registration No. 07033) had 24 marks and ranking 376
(out of 478). The student was also assessed as a very slow child. Moeed s/o Asim
(Registration No. 07288) had just 12.7 marks ranking 425 (out of 478). Ali s/o
Jamal (Registration No. 6990) had 45 marks and ranking 259 (out of 478). Haider
s/o Reza (Registration No. 07136) had 34.6 marks and ranking 330 (out of 478).
Mustafa s/o Shafiq (Registration No. 06890) had 49.7 marks and ranking 231 (out
of 478). Bilal s/o Ali (Registration No. 06832) had 32.9 marks and ranking 341
(out of 478). Kabir s/o Sadiq (Registration No. 07200) had 42.6 marks and
ranking 278 (out of 478). Hassan s/o Shakil (Registration No. 07544) had 30.3
marks and ranking 350 (out of 478). Khizar s/o Mohsin (Registration No. 07322)
had 30.2 marks and ranking 351 (out of 478). Saif s/o Zulfiqar (Registration
No.07720) had just 8.6 marks and ranking 441 (out of 478). Aftab s/o Asif
(Registration No. 06661) had 44.3 marks and ranking 263 (out of 478). Abdullah
(Registration No. 07052) had 27.7 marks and ranking 360 (out of 478). Ayaan s/o
Tariq (Registration No. 07147) had 49.5 marks and ranking 232 (out of 478). Omer
(Registration No. 07460) had 11.3 marks and ranking 429 (out of 478) and Afraz
s/o Arif had just 4.7 marks and ranked 452 (out of 478)

The students who were admitted to Class K-3 are: Moazzam s/o Tariq (Registration
No. 06669) had 20.2 marks and ranking 95 (out of 130). Amaan s/o Ali
(Registration No. 07443) had 32.1 marks and ranking 60 (out of 130). Mustafa s/o
Zulqarnain (Registration No. 06960) had 36 marks and ranking 48 (out of 130).
Anas s/o Azhar (Registration No. 07074) had 23 marks ranking 87 (out of 130).
Ali s/o Babar (Registration No. 07458) had 26.5 marks and ranking 75 (out of
130). Hamza s/o Nauman (Registration No. 07737) had 23.7 marks and ranking 85
(out of 130). Raheemullah s/o Ashfaq (Registration No. 07038) had 39.4 marks
ranking 36 (out of 130). Abdullah s/o Ahmad (Registration No. 07251) had 42.3
marks and ranking 28 (out of 130).

The students who were admitted to Class K-4 are: Ibrahim s/o Kamran
(Registration No. 07411) had only 2.8 marking and ranking 84 (out of 86).
Shahzeb s/o Salman (Registration No. 06682) had 48.5 marks and ranking 13 (out
of 86). Daniyal s/o Farooq (Registration No. 06822) had 42.2 marks and ranking
21 (out of 86).

The students who were admitted to Class K-5 include Hassan s/o Farooq
(Registration No. 07510) had 22.4 marks and ranking 83 (out of 100). Haris s/o
Yasin (Registration No. 07205) had 41 marks and ranking 36 (out of 100). Ahmed
s/o Altaf (Registration No. 068237) had just 12.3 marks ranking 96 (out of 100).

The students who were admitted to Class E-1 are: Asadullah s/o Ijaz
(Registration No. 6907) had 33.8 marks and ranking 56 (out of 103). Irzam s/o
Asif (Registration No. 6835) had 48.9 marks and ranking 19 (out of 103). Husnain
s/o Khurram (Registration No. 6708) had 41 marks and ranking 36 (out of 103) and
Araib s/o Kashif (Registration No. 6921) had 24.3 marks and ranking 80 (out of
103). Ammar s/o Alam (Registration No. 7439) had 30.4 marks and ranking 68 (out
of 103). Murtaza s/o Asif (Registration No. 6941) had 49.6 marks and ranking 18
(out of 103) and Izn s/o Tariq (Registration No. 7697) had 27.5 marks and
ranking 74 (out of 103). Hamza s/o Tahir (Registration No. 7558) had 35 marks
and ranking 21 (out of 103).

The students who were admitted to Class E-2 include Mubeen s/o Zamrak had just
18.5 marks and ranking 64 (out of 76). Hunain s/o Ibrahim (Registration No.
7093) had 28 marks and ranking 41 (out of 76). Raffay s/o Akhtar (Registration
No. 7429) had 41 marks and ranking 18 (out of 76). Hamza s/o Bakhtiar
(Registration No. 7853) had only 19.6 marks and ranking 58 (out of 76).

The students who were admitted to Class M-1 include Fateh s/o Asim (Registration
No. 7672) had 21.9 marks and ranking 57 (out of 75). The candidate had also weak
result in previous school. Zohaib s/o Tahir (Registration No. 7339) had 34.4
marks and ranking 31 (out of 75). Aziz s/o Mahboob (Registration No. 06755) had
49.1 marks and ranking 13 (out of 75).

The students who were admitted to Class M-2 include Hayat s/o Asim (Registration
No. 07670) had just 17 marks. Huzaim s/o Ibrahim (Registration No. 07094) had 45
marks. Saifullah s/o Shujah (Registration No.07589) had 38 marks. Daud s/o Tahir
(Registration No. 07459) had 33 marks.

The student who were admitted to Class C-1 include Umer s/o Asad (Registration
No. 07487) had 45 marks.

The students who met the merit didn't stand a chance as there were no vacancies,
included Muhammad Ali Bhoon s/o Muhammad Ahsan Bhoon (Registration No. 06686)
had 56.2 marks and ranking 10 (out of 100) and Arij Javaid s/o Rana Javaid Umar
(Registration No. 07659) had also 58.8 marks and ranking 8 (out of 100) in K-5.

In E-1 Syed Nadir Hussain (Registration No. 07822) had 53 marks and ranking 14
(out of 103) while in M-2 Abdullah Qaiser Warriach s/o Qaiser Shabbir Warriach
(Registration No. 07816) had 52 marks.

Most interesting is the manner in which these admissions were carried out. That
is, the people involved in this social crime didn't bother a bit about the bad
exposure in the event these cases leaked out. The supporters of these students
made requests through letters, phone-calls and even SMS. The Governor House also
got involved in these admissions openly, with a good number "added by the
governor."

The influentials whose names have been attributed to the admissions in the
record are: President of Pakistan, Prime Minister, sister and brother-in-law of
the President, Nawab Muhammad Aslam Khan Raisani Chief Minister Balochistan, Ch
Ahmad Mukhtar Federal Minister for Defence, Raja Pervez Ashraf, MNA, NA-51,
Rawalpindi (PPP)/ Federal Minister for Water & Power, Mir Changez Khan Jamali
Federal Minister for S&T, Ch Imtiaz Safdar Warraich President PPP Punjab/ MNA
NA-98, Gujranwala, Malik Nawab Sher Waseer, MNA, NA-76, Faisalabad (PPP),
political secretary to President Zardari Ms Rukhsana Bangash, Muhammad Ijaz Virk
(PPPP) MNA NA-83, Faisalabad, Khalid Ahmed Khan Kharal (PPP), MNA Ghulam Farid
Kathia NA-161 Sahiwal, Rana Muhammad Farooq Saeed Khan MNA, NA-79, Faisalabad
(PPP), Tanvir Ashraf Kaira MPA PP-112, Gujrat (PPP)/ Ex-Minister Finance Punjab,
Rai Muhammad Shahjahan Khan (PPPP), MPA PP-54, Faisalabad, Syed Abrar Hussain
Shah, MPA PP-173, Nankana Sahib, PP-172, Mohammad Jamil Shah MPA PP-218,
Khanewal (PPP), Ms Ruqia Khanam Soomro, MPA, PSW-136, Sindh/ President, PPP
Sindh (Women Wing), Mehr Irshad Ahmad Khan Sial, MPA, PPP Muzaffargarh PP-254/
Chairman Standing Committee on Culture & Youth Affairs, Muhammad Shujah Khan,
Minister for Food, KP, Malik Mohammad Ahmed Khan ex-MPA/ Old Aitchisonian,
Hashaam Riaz Sheikh, member BoG of Aitchison College, Fazal Palejo, Principal
Secretary to Prime Minister, Irfan Alvi Media Consultant to Governor, Naurez
Shakoor ex-MNA, Mr Justice Ijaz Ahmad Chaudhry, former Chief Justice of LHC,
Tanvir Butt, Political Advisor to Governor, Corps Headquarters, Mian Misbah ur
Rehman, Sheikh Khadim, Arslan Sheikh, Syed Ahmad Saeed Kirmani, Shaikh Allauddin
MPA, Mr Waqar, friend of ex-Governor, Tariq Bashir Cheema, Qazi Humayun Fareed,
Dean, Consular Corps Punjab Lahore, Ahsan Bhoon, advocate, former Judge Lahore
High Court, Ms Zill-e-Huma, D.G Rangers, Mian Muhammad Ahmad Sethi, Director,
Naimatullah Steel Works, Lahore, Mian Ghulam Muhammad Ahmed Khan Maneka
ex-Federal Minister, Justice (r) Faqir Muhammad Khokhar former Judge Supreme
Court of Pakistan, Chairman WAPDA, Riaz Malik, Advocate Ahwar Tufail Warriach,
President PLF Gujranwala, Engineer Malik Bilal Ahmad, MPA, D.G Forest, Begum
Governor Punjab, Khurram Latif Khosa, Shahbaz Khosa, Ms Zareen Khosa, Balakh
Sher Khosa, Barrister Sehr Khosa, Balakh Sher Khosa, and Mrs Javeria with
reference of Ms Governor and others.

It is pertinent to mention here that during the tenure of Fakir Syed Aijazuddin
who joined Aitchison College as principal on December 29, 2008, a substantial
increase in overall strength of students was witnessed in the college and the
hockey ground of the college was used for construction of new classrooms to
"accommodate" the ever-growing number of admissions.

An alarming trend was witnessed in student intake in K-2 and K-3 over the past
two years. As many as 144 admissions were made in K-2 in 2009 while 225 in 2010.
Similarly 07 admissions were made in 2009 in K-3 and 93 in 2010. K-2 now has
around 16 sections.

The process of promotion of these extra students in K-2 and K-3 would lead to
another problem of generating more rooms for each class every next year. This
would require huge funds for the construction apart from the acquisition of land
for the purpose. This extra land could only be acquired from the available
grounds on the premises. In such an eventuality the college management will have
to make serious compromises vis-a-vis activities of sports for which the college
is know all over the country.

When contacted, Fakir Syed Aijazuddin said he had nothing to do with the
admissions. When reminded that he was the principal at the time the admissions
were made he said "You should contact the incumbent principal as he has all the
record now." Without saying anything further he disconnected the call.

However, when contacted over his cell phone, Prof Dr Muhammad Hafeez, who joined
Aitchison College as principal in March 2012, did not comment on the 2011
admissions, saying one should have a futuristic approach instead of indulging in
the past. He, however, confirmed it was mandatory to qualify in the written
exam.

Answering a question as to how many admissions in total would be made this year,
Dr Hafeez expressed his ignorance saying he had recently joined the college and
was still in the learning process.

Since the principal is custodian of the college's record this correspondent
tried to meet Prof Dr Muhammad Hafeez in his office to show him the documents
available with The News to seek his point of view in detail but to no avail.

A detailed letter as well an email mentioning gross violation in admissions,
with an example, was also sent to him to respond which too went unanswered.
Afterwards the principal neither received phone calls nor replied to the SMS's
of this reporter.

The News provided a fair opportunity to the administration of the college to
share its point of view but to no avail.

Talking to The News Senator Muhammad Mohsin Khan Leghari, a distinguished
Aitchisonian, also a member of the Aitchison College's Board of Governors, said
the former principal never discussed admission matters with the board members.
He said the former principal had focused on revenue generation for the college
owing to which he was all for maximum admissions.

Leghari further said that he personally believed that the character of the
Aitchison College had changed. "Its boarding school used to provide a good
opportunity to students from across the country to interact and develop a close
relationship", he said adding, "But, unfortunately, the once premier institution
has become an ordinary school now."

He also expressed displeasure over using the college's hockey ground for
construction of new block saying sports and games were as important in
development of a student's character and personality as grades.

Secretary Higher Education Punjab, ex-officio member of the BoG, said he did not
know about his predecessors but ever since he joined the department some months
ago he attended almost four or five board meetings. He also expressed his
ignorance over out-of-merit admissions.

Spokesperson of the Governor House told The News that the governor has got no
role in the admission process. He said that as President of the BoG, the
governor does have an advisory role and shares input wherever required but,
primarily, it is the principal's job to oversee the admission process and ensure
transparency.

He said that despite being head of the BoG the governor is in no position to
influence the process of admission in such a prestigious institution in the
presence of other noted and respected members of the BoG. He added the decisions
of the college were made by the BoG and not just the BoG's president alone.

Another source said noted personalities including public office holders often
face pressure from relations or constituents for admissions, and they refer the
same to the authority concerned as a routine. Adherence to merit and policy was
the responsibility of the authority Published by HT Syndication with permission
from Right Vision News.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              656 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                             August 21, 2009 Friday

UNL ties for 43rd in rankings;
Officials: Solid marks are welcome news but can't fully measure the success of a
campus.

BYLINE: MELISSA LEE Lincoln Journal Star

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 527 words


For the sixth straight year, the University of Nebraska-Lincoln finds itself
among the nation's top 50 public universities in the latest set of rankings from
U.S. News & World Report.

The magazine's annual rankings, released Thursday, show UNL tied at No. 43 among
the top 50 public universities. UNL also landed in the top third of all public
and private universities, sharing No. 96 with five other schools.

Those rankings are a slight drop from last year, when UNL ranked 40th among
public universities and 89th among all universities. But the drop isn't
significant, because ties are so common in the U.S. News rankings.

Chancellor Harvey Perlman and others at UNL have offered consistent reactions
over the years: Solid marks are welcome news, but a set of rankings can't
measure the full success of a campus.

"Even though we're always going to look at the rankings, they're numbers," UNL
spokeswoman Kelly Bartling said. "They don't really reflect any sort of
opinions, beliefs, feelings that students, alumni and faculty are having about
the university."

UNL leaders aren't alone.

In recent years, a growing number of education leaders have criticized the
rankings, especially the most controversial part of the magazine's formula: a
"peer assessment" question that asks college leaders to rate other institutions.

Some argue that question may benefit universities with longstanding reputations.
Critics note U.S. News' top schools vary little from year to year, and Harvard
and Princeton universities have traded the top rank or tied for No. 1 every year
in the past decade, according to The Chronicle of Higher Education.

Among college leaders who were sent the peer-assessment survey for this year's
rankings, 48 percent responded, down from 68 percent in 1999, The Chronicle
reported.

UNL was among those that did respond, Bartling said. Nevertheless, campus
leaders are dubious about the idea of colleges assessing each other.

"Do the people who fill those out really know anything of substance about those
institutions, or do they just have a gut feeling?" Bartling said.

Numerous sets of competing ratings have cropped up in the backlash.

This week, for instance, the American Council of Trustees and Alumni debuted a
site called WhatWillTheyLearn.com that bills itself as a report card based on
"education, not reputation."

The site, which aims to measure student learning, gave just seven institutions
an A. UNL earned a B.

The U.S. News & World Report rankings, however, arguably remain king, and they
are a valuable resource for some students and parents seeking to narrow their
college choices.

In addition to "quality indicators" like a school's graduation and retention
rate, admissions selectivity and alumni giving, U.S. News provides information
on colleges' enrollment, tuition and fees and more.

U.S. News has issued the rankings for 26 years. Each new set of rankings
generates significant national media coverage.

Reach Melissa Lee at 473-2682 or mlee@journalstar.com

RANKINGS ONLINE

· U.S. News rankings: www.usnews.com

Other sites that rank institutions:

· whatwilltheylearn.com

· Forbes.com (search "best colleges" on main page)

· www.princetonreview.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Lincoln Journal Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              657 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             July 1, 2009 Wednesday
                         State Edition; Coastal Edition

UMFK among 'Best Baccalaureate Colleges'

BYLINE: JEN LYNDS OF THE NEWS STAFF

SECTION: Pg. B3

LENGTH: 384 words

DATELINE: FORT KENT


The University of Maine at Fort Kent is no stranger to national recognition.

For four consecutive years, the university has been named "Best Northeastern
College" by the Princeton Review, and the UMFK men's soccer team put the school
on the map last year with its prowess during the NAIA National Tournament. Bill
Ashby, the team's head coach, was also named the National Soccer Coaches
Association of America-Adidas NAIA Northeast Regional Coach of the Year.

This year UMFK has been listed as one of America's Best Colleges by U.S. News &
World Report in its recently released 2009 rankings. The Fort Kent college was
listed among the "Best Baccalaureate Colleges" in the North region.

Of the top 32 schools in their category of colleges, Maine Maritime Academy in
Castine was listed at No. 10 and the University of Maine at Farmington at No.
18. Other comparable Maine colleges mentioned in the list that, like UMFK, did
not receive a numerical ranking were: Unity College in Unity, Thomas College in
Waterville, and the University of Maine at Augusta.

Prospective students and their parents use the rankings to help determine what
colleges are the best fit.

UMFK President Dr. Richard W. Cost was excited about the college's achievement.

"We are delighted," Cost said in a recent phone interview. "This ranking was
based on a number of factors, and those factors help define our campus."

Indicators used by U.S. News & World Report to determine academic quality fall
into seven categories: assessment by administrators at peer institutions;
retention of students; faculty resources; student selectivity; financial
resources; alumni giving and graduation rate performance.

"This honor was achieved because of teamwork," Cost said. "You cannot do this
alone. Those who compiled the list looked at the faculty, student retention, how
the alumni is contributing to the university. It was work on the part of
everyone."

This is the seventh year that U.S. News & World Report has presented the
rankings and Cost said it was a wonderful accolade that will speak well for UMFK
in the future.

"The recognition shines a bright light on our excellent faculty, our committed
staff, this wonderful community and our outstanding students," he said.


BDN news intern Dan MacLeod contributed to this report.

jlbdn@ainop.com

538-6567

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Bangor Daily News


                              658 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Kentucky)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          September 10, 2015 Thursday

Brescia, KWC high in U.S. News rankings

BYLINE: Keith Lawrence, Messenger-Inquirer, Owensboro, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 562 words


Sept. 10--Winning accolades is almost commonplace at Brescia University and
Kentucky Wesleyan College these days.

But they never get old, school officials said Wednesday.

U.S. News & World Report released its annual list of Best Regional Colleges on
Wednesday. KWC came in at No. 27 among 98 regional colleges in the South, and
Brescia at No. 50.

KWC moved up from No. 31 a year ago, and Brescia slipped back a little from No.
43.

Barton Darrell, KWC president, said he was happy "not only as president, but
also as an alum, to see us ranked highly by U.S. News & World Report."

Darrell said, "Even though we ranked highly last year, I am even more excited
that we made such a statistically significant jump to our current ranking. We
take great pride in what we do at Kentucky Wesleyan and how we do it. Our
faculty, staff, alumni, other supporters of the college and our terrific student
body deserve credit for this recognition and ranking."

But he said the college will "refuse to be satisfied and will work even harder
to raise our rankings to even higher levels."

"We are grateful to be included in this list of worthy higher education
providers because it not only solidifies the difference we are making, but it
showcases how talented our students, faculty, staff and alumni are," the Rev.
Larry Hostetter, Brescia's president, said of the ranking.

He said, "When I look back on the list of accolades that Brescia University has
received over the past year, I am grateful that the hard work and dedication of
our faculty and staff is begin recognized," he said.

The magazine said that Brescia "has a total undergraduate enrollment of 1,034,
its setting is urban and the campus size is nine acres. Its tuition and fees are
$19,990 (2014-15)."

The school's enrollment is 74 percent female, the report said.

Of KWC, the magazine wrote, "It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 709, its
setting is urban and the campus size is 55 acres. Its tuition and fees are
$23,120 (2015-16)."

The student body is 54 percent male, it said.

Two other western Kentucky universities did well in the rankings.

Murray State University came in at No. 28 among Southern regional universities
and Western Kentucky University at No. 31.

The rankings are based on such factors as freshman retention and graduation
rates, student/faculty ratio, alumni giving percentage, percentage of classes at
fewer than 20 students, undergraduate academic reputation, faculty resources,
student selectivity and financial resources.

"Taking into account how well a school supports its students from freshman year
through graduation is important," Brian Kelly, editor and chief content officer
at U.S. News, said in a news release. "To find the best fit, students should
consider a range of factors, from financial aid offerings and location to campus
size and majors. The process can be overwhelming, but our rankings and advice
content are a great place to start."

Other Kentucky schools appearing in the rankings are Asbury (third), Alice Lloyd
College (30th), Midway College (54th) and Kentucky Christian University (58th).

A complete list of rankings can be found at www.usnews.com/bestcolleges.

Keith Lawrence, 691-7301, klawrence@messenger-inquirer.com

___ (c)2015 Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Ky.) Visit the Messenger-Inquirer
(Owensboro, Ky.) at www.messenger-inquirer.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150910-OW-Brescia-KWC-high-in-U-S-News-rankings-20150910

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OW


                       Copyright 2015 Messenger-Inquirer


                              659 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                            April 22, 2015 Wednesday
                               Australian Edition

Experts question value of rankings

BYLINE: JOHN ROSS

SECTION: HIGHEREDUCATION; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 486  words


Rankings are the emperor's new clothes of the higher education world, exerting
inordinate influence on policy and funding on the basis of untested assumptions,
say US education experts.

A group met in Chicago over the weekend to thrash out a research agenda aimed at
filling what they say is a crucial information gap: how rankings are used by key
stakeholders such as students, parents, employers, universities and politicians.

"Everybody loves rankings, but what do they actually do with the information?"
Henry Braun, a Boston College education professor, said.

"How do they interpret it or misinterpret it? What other information do they
bring to bear? What are the implications, both for students looking for the
right fit and colleges scrambling for a leg-up on their competition?" Professor
Braun, a Stanford University-educated statistician, now heads the Centre for the
Study of Testing, Evaluation and Education Policy at Boston College's Lynch
School - also home to renowned international education expert Philip Altbach.

Late last year Professor Braun and Michael Feuer, dean of the Graduate School of
Education and Human Development at George Washington University, organised a
workshop of professors, administrators and ranking providers. "Nobody
contradicted our assertion that we have very little systematic information about
who is using rankings and how they are using them," Professor Braun said.

"For all the attention and publicity around rankings, and all the bashing they
get, we really don't know what's going on." He said the dearth of information
hadn't prevented some negative consequences. "In the UK, the pressure of the
government's policies on university funding is driving schools to emulate the
rankings leaders. Universities are forsaking their history and missions in what
is typically a vain effort to become one of the leading red-brick schools.

"People feel the coercive aspects of these rankings, and the way they appear to
be interpreted and used by the government, are destroying higher education
diversity that in many ways is quite healthy and productive.

"That's not to say they need 28 anthropology departments, but they probably need
more than two or three." Similar trends are at play in the US. "Some branch
campuses of the state systems are not seen as being highly ranked. That might be
used as a lever or a hammer - depending on your perspective - for the governor
to put pressure on the leadership to change their missions or even close them
down," Professor Braun said.

"We haven't reached that point, but one can see that as a possibility.
"Similarly with the flagship institutions, they're going to perhaps use their
position in the rankings as a way of driving reform and freeing themselves from
state limitations."He said researchers tended to focus on the technical details
of rankings but not the impact on homes, businesses suites and the offices of
college presidents.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              660 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                           September 16, 2014 Tuesday

Most Irish universities see decline in global rankings

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 548 words


The latest table from QS, one of the most-cited world ranking systems, show
Trinity College Dublin as the only one of our seven universities in the top 100.
At 71st, it dropped from 61st last year, but said the fall is against a backdrop
of upward moves by universities in Asia-Pacific countries.

This may be supported by the fact that Trinity's score actually increased, from
75.1 to 75.3. So too did the score of University College Dublin (UCD), from 61.2
to 62.6, keeping it in 139th.

Trinity dean of research Professor Vinny Cahill said improved scores no longer
guarantee a higher ranking due to global competition, our challenging economic
environment, and reduced government investment.

"A world class university requires resourcing at internationally competitive
levels and for Trinity to sustain its position and increase further worldwide
requires adequate investment in the university sector," he said.

The top 10 in the 2014 QS World University Rankings are all US and UK colleges,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology keeping first place, Cambridge and
Imperial College London in joint-second, and Harvard dropping two to fourth.

University College Cork fell from 210th to 230th, with its overall score falling
from 50.6 to 49.5.

A spokesperson said Irish falls of recent years reflect the funding cuts and
other challenges facing the sector, but pointed out that UCC has gained places
under the research reputation and international student rankings.

The only one of eight ranked Irish colleges to improve was NUI Galway, up four
to 280th with a score of 43.6, up from 41.5 in 2013. Dublin City University is
ranked 366th, down from 349th in 2013, despite improving its score from 36.8 to
37.

University of Limerick, with a score of 28.7, remains in the 501-550 banding at
523rd. But Dublin Institute of Technology fell out of that band to 551-600,
ranked 558th with a 26.9 score.

Maynooth University drops into the 601-650 banding, and scored 24.1 this year,
placing it in 628th.

According to QS, all eight Irish institutions' scores dropped for proportions of
international academics on staff, but there were some positive indicators.

"The highest indicators across the board for Irish institutions are those of
student faculty ratio and international students, indicating potential
improvement in the future at the student level," it said.

Trinity beat other Irish universities in half of the six key categories, but UCD
had the best ranking for international students (56th) and employer reputation
(129th). NUI Galway's 234th ranking in faculty-student ratios is Ireland's
highest, and University of Limerick is in the top 100 with Trinity for
international faculty members, at 86th.

The downward ranking trends may fuel more debate on how to properly fund higher
education, a question previous education minister Ruairi Quinn asked to be
examined by an expert group. It will report to his successor Jan O'Sullivan at
the end of next year. While universities say the Government must drastically
improve public funding or introduce greater levels of student contribution, in
order to allow the system cope with huge growth in student numbers, reforms
across the higher education sector are being pushed by the Department of
Education to improve efficiencies with existing resources.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              661 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 17, 2016 Saturday

Hawks Standout in ITA Tennis Rankings

LENGTH: 360  words

DATELINE: New York



 Raleigh: Chowan College has issued the following news release:
 The Intercollegiate Tennis Association (ITA) has announced the Division II
men's and women's fall rankings.  The Chowan University women's tennis team
currently ranks No. 6 in the Atlantic Region; their highest ranking to-date.
The Chowan men's tennis team sits No. 3 regionally; maintaining their ITA
ranking from the end of the 2015-16 season.  Individually, Polina Novachuk ranks
No. 20 in singles play with Farid Hajizada and Mateusz Izycki ranking No. 5 and
No. 12 in men's singles, respectively.





 The women's tennis team posted a 25-6 overall record in 2015-16 while earning
the CIAA Northern Division and CIAA Tournament crowns.  The Hawks also secured
an appearance in last year's NCAA Atlantic Regional Tournament.



 On the men's side, the Hawks ended the 2015-16 campaign with a 21-7 overall
record and captured the CIAA Champsionship for the first time in program
history.  The Hawks went on to the NCAA Atlantic Region Tournament and secured
the first NCAA Division II post-season victory for Chowan in any sport with a
5-3 victory over West Virginia Wesleyan.



 Both teams stand 1-0 on the year after earning victories over Shepherd
University earlier this fall.  Click HERE to view the complete men's tennis
rankings and HERE for  the women's rankings.



 The ITA is the governing body of college tennis, overseeing men's and women's
varsity tennis at all levels- NCAA Divisions I, II and III, NAIA and
Junior/Community College.



 Comprised of nearly 1,700 men's and women's coaches representing over 2,200
teams across the country from all three NCAA Divisions, as well as the NAIA and
Junior and Community Colleges, the ITA oversees activities involving over 20,000
varsity college student-athletes. In addition to ITA collegiate coach members,
the ITA welcomes collegiate varsity players, junior players, corporate, and
affiliated membership of alumni, associate, college parents, conferences &
associations, international federations, junior family and professional.


 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              662 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             January 5, 2018 Friday

Geneva College Ranks Top Three Best Value Regional University

LENGTH: 394  words



Harrisburg: Geneva College has issued the following news release:
Geneva College maintains its high #3 ranking of Best Value Regional Universities
(North) in the U.S. News & World Report 2018 Best College Rankings. The number
of comparative institutions in the region in this category increased from 15
last year to 84 this year. To determine which colleges are the best value for
students, U.S. News takes into account both academic quality and cost.


In the Overall Regional Universities category, Geneva's rank improved five
places from the previous year even as the number of schools in this category
increased by over 40%. U.S. News weighs 15 indicators of academic excellence in
developing these rankings.
The Geneva engineering program also improved five places in the U.S. News 2018
rankings and remains as one of the Top 100 Best Undergraduate Engineering
programs in the nation for the fifth straight year. The evaluation compares
engineering programs offering bachelor's and master's degrees and are determined
by peer assessment and accreditation by the Engineering Accreditation Commission
of ABET, www.abet.org.
Since its inaugural edition in 1983, U.S. News & World Report&prime;s Best
Colleges has been helping students and their parents make informed higher
education decisions by providing news and advice about in-demand degree
programs, finding more financial aid, how to be successful in college and other
relevant topics. It is considered to be the gold standard in college rankings.
 Geneva College is a Christ-centered academic community that provides a
comprehensive education to equip students for faithful and fruitful service to
God and neighbor. Offering over 80 traditional undergraduate majors and
programs, Adult Degree Programs with fully online and classroom options, and
high-demand graduate degrees, Geneva's programs are recognized for their high
quality. U.S. News & World Report ranks Geneva as a Top Three Best Value
Regional University with one of the Top 100 engineering programs in the nation.
Adhering to the truth of Scripture, a Geneva education is grounded in God's Word
as well as in a core curriculum designed to prepare students vocationally to
think, write and communicate well in today's world.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2018 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              663 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 3, 2016 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Initial CFP rankings not worth the angst

BYLINE: Matt Bonesteel

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 383 words


The first College Football Playoff rankings of the year came out Tuesday night,
and fans of unbeaten Washington were a tad upset their team came in at No. 5,
one spot behind one-loss Texas A&M.

But there's really little reason for Washington - or any other good-enough team
not ranked in the top four - to be sweating all that much because the initial
College Football Playoff rankings have ended up bearing little resemblance to
the final rankings over the first two years of the playoff's existence.

2014 initial rankings

1. Mississippi State (7-0): Stayed at No. 1 for two more weeks then lost to
Alabama. Ended up losing three of its last four games.

2. Florida State (7-0): Made playoff, lost to Oregon in semifinals.

3. Auburn (6-1): Spent one more week at No. 3, lost four of its last five games.

4. Mississippi (7-1): Ranked even though they were coming off a loss, the Rebels
lost four of their last six games.

2014 final rankings (initial CFP ranking in parentheses)

1. Alabama (6)

2. Oregon (5)

3. Florida State (2)

4. Ohio State (16)

2015 initial rankings

1. Clemson (8-0): Made playoff, lost to Alabama in title game.

2. LSU (7-0): Lost three straight after first rankings came out, ended up in
Texas Bowl.

3. Ohio State (8-0): Spent two more weeks at No. 3, then lost to Michigan State.
Missed playoff.

4. Alabama (7-1): Made playoff and won national title.

2015 final rankings (initial CFP ranking in parentheses)

1. Clemson (1)

2. Alabama (4)

3. Michigan State (7)

4. Oklahoma (15)

So of the eight teams that were in the top four of the first two initial CFP
rankings, just three ended up making the playoff. To put it another way: Of the
eight teams that have made the playoffs, five were not in the top four when the
first rankings came out. Two of them were 15th or lower in the initial rankings.
One of those teams - Ohio State in 2014 - won the national title.

The College Football Playoff has proved to be great - when the final rankings
come out and the games actually are played. But the first four versions of the
rankings do little more than feed the sport's controversy-industrial complex,
which isn't all that different from what the Bowl Championship Series did. So
enjoy the hype. Just don't take it as gospel.

matt.bonesteel@washpost.com

ï...OE Excerpted from washingtonpost.com/ earlylead

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              664 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                             April 5, 2016 Tuesday

Seven institutions from State in NIRF rankings

LENGTH: 379  words

DATELINE: THIRUVANANTHAPURAM


THIRUVANANTHAPURAM, April 5 -- As many as seven institutions in Kerala find a
place in the India Rankings 2016 brought out by the Ministry of Human Resource
Development (MHRD) under the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF).


 Among management institutes, the IIM-Kozhikode has been ranked sixth in the
country. Among universities, the Indian Institute of Space Science and
Technology has been ranked eighth and the Cochin University of Science and
Technology (Cusat), thirtieth.
 The rankings were released by the MHRD on Monday. They can be accessed
onwww.mhrd.gov.in, and onwww.nirfindia.org. Among engineering colleges the
Amrita School of Engineering, Karunagappally, has been ranked 31 followed by the
NIT, Kozhikode, at rank 35. The Cusat School of Engineering has been ranked 55.
Among pharmacy colleges, the Amrita School of Pharmacy has been ranked eighth in
the country.
 All these institutions were ranked across five parameters - teaching learning
and resources, research, consultancy and collaborative performance, graduation
outcome, outreach and inclusivity and perception. While 1,438 engineering
colleges participated in the ranking process, 609 management institutes, 454
pharmacy colleges, 28 architecture colleges, 803 arts and science colleges and
233 universities took part in the NIRF ranking process.
 While IIM-Bengaluru was ranked the best management institute in the country,
the Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences was ranked the best pharmacy
institute. Among universities, the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, was
ranked the top varsity while the Jawaharlal Nehru University comes at third
position. IIT-Madras has been ranked the best engineering institute in the
country.
 Cusat Vice Chancellor J. Letha told The Hindu that the ranking would help the
varsity as it awaits the second round of NAAC accreditation in 2016. The
varsity's B + accreditation had timed out in 2005. "Noting that we were a bit
weak in patents, we have set up a Patent Facilitation Centre at our
Inter-University Centre for IPR Studies. We will encourage anyone who wishes to
file a patent and walk them through the steps. We have set up a Cusat Knowledge
Forum to provide scholars a platform for presenting patentable ideas and
inventions," she added.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              665 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

Some Colleges Want to Curb Flow of Data to Magazine;
Annual Rankings by U.S. News Called Misleading; 'Peer Reputation' Survey
Particularly Criticized

BYLINE: Valerie Strauss; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 894 words


There is growing dissension in the ranks of the ranked.

A group of college presidents, fed up with the annual U.S. News & World Report
list of top colleges, has begun pressuring colleagues to limit the information
they provide to the magazine and eliminate any mention of the list when
promoting their schools.

Administrators say they know they cannot stop the rankings. "But why should we
help U.S. News sell magazines?" asked Robert J. Massa, vice president for
enrollment and college relations at Dickinson College in Pennsylvania. "That is,
after all, their primary goal."

Letters began circulating among college administrators several months ago,
urging them to stop cooperating with the magazine. Some presidents have
ratcheted up the pressure, writing magazine articles, posting on blogs and
gaining supporters along the way.

"We believe these rankings are misleading and do not serve well the interests of
prospective students in finding a college or university that is well suited to
their education beyond high school," read a letter sent from 12 school
presidents, including Dickinson President William G. Durden, St. John's College
President Christopher B. Nelson and Drew University President Robert Weisbuch to
hundreds of other university leaders.

The letter asks colleges to give the magazine only data collected in accord with
shared professional standards, including enrollment and transfer rates, degrees
conferred and financial aid, among other information, and "not the idiosyncratic
standards of any single publication."

And it asks them to stop filling out U.S. News's "peer reputation" survey, which
asks administrators to rank other schools in their region -- sometimes 150 -- by
completing a form that has them judge a school's undergraduate program, using a
scale from 1 to 5, with a "don't know" option.

Since the magazine began publishing the rankings in 1983, they have emerged as
the most-read and powerful such listings in the country. Students devour them,
colleges jockey to raise their position, alumni scream when they don't like what
they see.

"People listen to the rankings," said Robert J. Birgeneau, chancellor of the
University of California at Berkeley. But he added that the undergraduate
rankings often "don't make much sense to me."

Even paychecks are affected: In March, the Arizona Board of Regents approved
$150,000 in performance bonuses for Arizona State University President Michael
Crow, with one goal -- that the school rise from its designation by U.S. News as
a "third-tier" institution.

Through it all, the magazine revels in its most-widely-read edition each year.

"We take any criticism seriously," Editor Brian Kelly said. "But in this case,
this is the usual suspects. These are the folks making these complaints for
years. It's a small group."

The peer assessment, particularly, rankles some college presidents, who say that
they and their colleagues can't possibly know in detail what other institutions
are doing.

"I think it is preposterous to think that you can issue one score for an
academic reputation for an entire institution when our academics are about a
whole lot of different kinds of programs and different kinds of teachings," said
Patricia McGuire, president of Trinity College in the District and a vocal
critic of the rankings.

She throws the forms away.

Still, many colleges don't.

Some presidents -- like John A. Fry, president of Franklin & Marshall College in
Pennsylvania -- said they respond on only the few schools they really know. "It
really doesn't at all allow you to formulate any sort of intelligent analysis of
what is going on," he said. "You are just checking a box."

Kelly said the magazine thinks the peer survey has great value and is similar to
those taken in other industries.

"You ask the experts in a profession to rank their competitors," he said.

"The ones complaining [about the survey] say they don't know about their
competitors. We say, 'If you don't know enough about their schools, don't rate
it.' "

Some college presidents periodically send colleagues updates on their own
school's progress, complete with personal letter and glossy promotional
materials.

In March, J. Michael Adams, president of Fairleigh Dickinson University in New
Jersey, sent out letters that said, in part, "I know how busy you are but I
would ask that you take just a moment to browse through . . . and enjoy a glance
at a rapidly emerging leader in higher education. In turn, I welcome the
opportunity to learn more about your institution's recent accomplishments."

Through e-mail, Adams wrote that the university participates "because we
understand that peer rankings are part of the equation and we want our peers to
be able to make informed decisions."

Still, most of the rankings are based on statistical data colleges present to
the university, and Kelly said this part of the survey has become "the gold
standard" in the business.

Some college presidents see it differently.

George Mason University President Alan G. Merten said he believes that some
colleges engage in "dishonest behavior" when they submit data. For example, he
said, some schools won't submit SAT scores for provisional students. And some
schools don't start tracking students until the beginning of the second
semester.

"You know something is wrong when they say they have 98 percent retention
rates," he said. "It just can't be."

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: May 24, 2007



CORRECTION: A May 20 A-section article incorrectly said that the Arizona Board
of Regents approved performance bonuses for Arizona State University President
Michael Crow with the single goal of rising above "third-tier" designation in
U.S. News & World Report's college rankings. Changing the designation was merely
one benchmark set by the board.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Shannon Ayres -- Potomac News Via Associated Press; George
Mason University's Alan G. Merten says he thinks some schools bend the rules on
data they submit.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              666 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    Times-News (Burlington, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 14, 2012 Friday

Elon holds position in U.S. News rankings

BYLINE: Mike Wilder, Times-News, Burlington, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 562 words


Sept. 14--Elon University held steady in the 2013 "America's Best Colleges"
rankings by U.S. News & World Report.

The university ranked second on the publication's list of the best Southern
master's-level universities, behind Rollins College in Florida. Elon has held
the second position on that list for six years.

Elon ranked first among Southern master's-level universities with "an unusually
strong commitment to undergraduate teaching." That ranking was based on a survey
on college presidents, provosts and deans of admission.

In the "up-and-comers" category, Elon is ranked first among Southern
universities and among the top 46 in the United States "that have recently made
the most promising and innovative changes in the areas of academics, faculty,
student life, campus or facilities."

Overall rankings are based on factors such as admissions standards, class size,
graduation rate and assessments from leaders at peer schools.

Other North Carolina colleges and universities included in the rankings are
listed below by category.

Southern master's-level universities:

Appalachian State University, no. 10 (ranked No. 3 in the South among public
master's-level universities)

University of North Carolina at Wilmington, No. 14

Queens University of Charlotte,  No. 20

Campbell University,  No. 28

Wingate University, No. 33

Western Carolina University, No. 37 (ranked No. 14 in the South among public
master's-level universities)

Gardner-Webb University,  No. 46

Pfeiffer University, No. 65

University of North Carolina at Pembroke, No. 80

Winston-Salem University, No. 80 (tie)

N.C. Central University, No. 88

"Second-tier" schools in the same category, listed alphabetically:

Fayetteville State University

Montreat College

Southern regional colleges (schools with mostly undergraduate offerings)

High Point University, No. 1

Meredith College, No. 3

Lenoir-Rhyne University, No. 14

Catawba College, No. 17

Methodist University, No. 23

Elizabeth City State University, No. 30 (ranked No. 3 in the South among public
regional colleges)

Mars Hill College, No. 31

Barton College, No. 35

Belmont Abbey College, No. 39

St. Andrews Presbyterian College, No. 42

North Carolina Wesleyan College, No. 55

Mount Olive College, No. 61

Lees-McRae College, No. 64

Greensboro College, No. 66

Chowan University, No. 77

St. Augustine's University, No. 79

"Second-tier" schools in the same category, listed alphabetically:

Livingstone College

Shaw University

National universities

Duke University, No. 8

Wake Forest University, No. 27

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, No. 30 (Ranked No. 5 in the top 30
public national  universities)

N.C. State University, No. 106

University of North Carolina at Greensboro, No. 189

East Carolina University, No. 199

University of North Carolina at Charlotte, No. 199 (tie)

"Second-tier" schools in the same category, listed alphabetically:

N.C. A&T State University

National Liberal Arts Colleges

Davidson College, No. 12

University of North Carolina at Asheville, No. 156 (Ranked No. 7 in the top 10
public national liberal arts colleges)

Guilford College, No. 167

Warren Wilson College, No. 175

"Second-tier schools in the same category, listed alphabetically

Bennett College

Brevard College

Johnson C. Smith University

Salem College

William Peace University

___ (c)2012 Times-News (Burlington, N.C.) Visit Times-News (Burlington, N.C.) at
www.thetimesnews.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120914-BT-Elon-holds-position-in-U-S-News-rankings-0914-20120914

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                           Copyright 2012 Times-News


                              667 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 14, 2015 Wednesday

Texas: 2016 Niche Ranking for TAMIU Based on Academics, Student Feedback

LENGTH: 565 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Austin: Texas A&M International University, The State of Texas has issued the
following news release:



 A new 2016 ranking by Niche for Texas A&M International University values the
insight of TAMIU's most important constituents: its students.





             TAMIU was ranked 21 in Texas. The ranking is the highest among The
Texas A&M University System's regional campuses. Texas A&M University in College
Station was ranked third and 40th nationally.



             Compiled by Niche, the 2016 Best Colleges ranking calculates
millions of statistics and student reviews into one overall college ranking.
Top-ranked colleges are elite academic institutions providing good value,
attracting a diverse student body, and offering exceptional college experiences.




             West Texas A&M University was ranked 33, Tarleton State University
37 and Texas A&M University-Commerce 40.  Prairie View A&M University follows at
51, with Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi and Texas A&M University-Kingsville
at 51 and 52 respectively.



              TAMIU was also ranked a solid &ldquo;B&rdquo; for academics, and
its Value grade was also a B. TAMIU professors were graded &ldquo;B+.&rdquo;



              Other surrounding institutions like the University of Texas at San
Antonio and University of the Incarnate Word were ranked &ldquo;B-.&rdquo;
TAMU-CC and TAMU-K both received &ldquo;C+&rdquo;grades.



              According to Niche, &ldquo;this grade takes into account key
factors such as the strength of the academic program, the aptitude of
professors, the quality of campus amenities, the general character of student
life, as well as student reviews in an attempt to measure the overall excellence
of the college experience.&rdquo;



               TAMIU president Dr. Ray Keck said knowing that students have cast
the deciding vote in this ranking is especially important.



               &ldquo;The student experience here is paramount to their success
here, and in the life they lead after graduation.  To know that they highly
value that experience, our classrooms and our faculty, reaffirms our mission and
our passion for what we do.  We are enormously grateful and committed to our
mission,&rdquo; Dr. Keck said.



             Niche, initially founded in 2002 by Carnegie Mellon University
students as CollegeProwler.com, is one of the country's largest content
startups. It is dedicated to providing students, families, and professionals
with transparent access to best-in-class content and deep insight into big life
decisions.



             Some insights offered by TAMIU contributors include:



             &ldquo;My experience thus far at TAMIU has made me a much more
well-rounded individual -- having earned profound and insightful knowledge not
only concerning my academic experiences, but also in sharing cultural heritage
with my fellow peers. It has been an enlightening experience overall.&rdquo;



             Another observed, &ldquo;My overall experience is wonderful and if
I could choose schools again, I would definitely choose it again.&rdquo;



             One wrote, &ldquo;I love being at TAMIU. I strongly encourage
everyone to take advantage of all the opportunities TAMIU has to offer: go study
abroad, join organizations and be involved!&rdquo;



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              668 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                   AUGUST 1, 1999 Sunday CNEW JERSEY EDITION

COUNTY COLLEGE EARNS A NATIONAL RECOGNITION / THE INSTITUTION WAS 72D IN DEGREES
GIVEN - / OUT OF MORE THAN 3,600 COMMUNITY COLLEGES IN THE NATION.

BYLINE: Mike Madden, INQUIRER SUBURBAN STAFF

SECTION: NEIGHBORS CHERRY HILL; Pg. CH01

LENGTH: 364 words

DATELINE: BLACKWOOD


Camden County College placed 72d out of more than 3,600 community colleges
nationwide in the number of associate degrees awarded in the 1996-97 school
year, winning the school recognition in a "Top 100" list in Community College
Week.

The college awarded 1,020 degrees.

For six years, the publication has used U.S. Department of Education data to
produce the list. This year's list is based on the '96-'97 figures because those
are the most recent ones available.

Camden County College officials said they were honored and excited by the news,
although the rankings are based only on the number of degrees and do not claim
to be comprehensive measures of quality, such as the U.S. News & World Report
annual rankings of four-year colleges and universities.

"We are quite proud of the scope and breadth of our academic program," college
president Phyllis Della Vecchia said in a statement issued just before she left
for vacation. "This ranking indicates that our faculty, staff and students
understand the value of the associate degree."

Neither Burlington County College nor Gloucester County College was ranked in
the top 100.

Because many students enroll in community colleges and never receive degrees,
the rankings help show the extent to which an institution pushes students toward
completing a degree program and is not simply a measure of a college's size,
said Victor M.H. Borden, director of information management and institutional
research at Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis, who prepared the
report for Community College Week.

Camden County College also ranked 10th in degrees awarded in criminal justice,
31st in health services, and 32d in degrees awarded in nursing.

This is the fourth consecutive year the college has placed in the overall top
100 list, spokeswoman Karen Stout said.

"You think about the quality of life in the community - the fact that we're
producing so many associate degrees - and the data tells us that five years from
now 80 percent of the jobs that are out there are going to require an associate
degree in a very technical area," Stout said. "That just shows that we are
fulfilling our mission."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              669 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                             August 21, 2006 Monday
                                 NORTH EDITION

REGIONAL DIGEST

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; REGIONAL DIGEST; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 403 words

DATELINE: LEOMINSTER


DEP fines Carbon Composites

A furnace insulation manufacturer on Jytek Park has been fined almost $10,800 by
the state Department of Environmental Protection for violating air pollution
control and hazardous waste requirements.

Carbon Composites Inc. did not comply with its air quality plan, failed to store
organic compounds in a manner that would minimize evaporation, failed to notify
the DEP of its hazardous waste generation activity, and failed to comply with
other hazardous waste and waste oil accumulation standards, according to a DEP
press release issued Friday. The issues were discovered during a routine
inspection in November, according to the DEP.

The company will pay $5,000 of the penalty, according to terms of a recently
finalized consent order. The remaining $5,798 was suspended, provided the
company does not violate conditions of the order within a year.

"The demand for the company's product grew significantly, which is a good thing.
However, the company failed to put adequate resources into complying with its
plan approval and applicable regulations," said Martin Suuberg, director of the
DEP's Central Regional Office in Worcester. "The company has since worked hard
to get back into compliance."

FSC officials pleased with ranking

FITCHBURG - Fitchburg State College officials are celebrating the school's
ranking in U.S. News and World Report's annual Best Colleges edition.

"Fitchburg State is among the third tier of regional colleges and universities
in the northern United States ranked in the Best Universities - Master's
category," according to a press release issued by the college Friday. "The
college is the only Massachusetts state college in the third tier ranking."

The magazine also listed Fitchburg State College as among those schools with the
lowest debt among graduates, ranking third in master's degree-granting
universities in the northern United States, according to the school's press
release. The magazine said 55 percent of graduates have an average student loan
debt of $10,660.

"I'm very proud of the entire campus community, who as a group are responsible
for the success we've show in U.S. News rankings," Fitchburg State College
President Robert V. Antonucci said in the press release. "Our hard work in
setting goals and working jointly toward achieving them has paid off. It is
indeed an honor to be recognized again by the most prestigious ranking in the
country."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              670 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                     The Times Higher Education Supplement

                               February 21, 1997

Official dissent in the ranks

BYLINE: JON MARCUS, Boston

SECTION: Issue 1268, Pg.8

LENGTH: 684 words


UNITEDSTATES higher education officials are fighting a losing battle with
popular but controversial independent college and university ratings guides in
an effort to ensure that they contain accurate and consistent information.

The College Board, a national association of universities and colleges, has
devised a standard questionnaire by which each school can report such measures
as its acceptance standards, faculty-to-student ratios, enrolment and financial
information to consumer magazines and guidebooks.

Several publications annually compile enormously successful guides to college,
ranking them in the same way other magazines rank cars, appliances or sports
teams. The most popular is the America's Best Colleges guide compiled annually
by the weekly US News & World Report.

Robert Morse, director of research for America's Best Colleges, which gives a
numerical ranking to each of 1,422 universities and colleges, said: 'The college
choice in the United States is immeasurable, and the number of institutions any
person has to choose from is enormous. If you want to compare schools easily
without the marketing influence of a school's own publications, then you need
someone to evaluate them for you independently.'

But among their many criticisms of the guides, colleges and universities
complain that their competitors include foreign students when they furnish the
average standardised test scores of applicants, or inflate the size of their
faculty by adding part-time instructors and non-teaching researchers. 'I think
the whole rankings game has been a problem, but the colleges have helped to
create the problem,' said Maureen Matheson, executive director of guidance
publications at the College Board.

In collaboration with US News, Money magazine and other publications, the board
has now designed a standardised form to collect consistent information in 41
areas from comparable colleges and universities.

The move has reduced, but by no means eliminated, criticism. 'What these guides
do is lay on top of these objective statistics a subjective ranking process,' Ms
Matheson said. 'They decide if it's more important to have more books in your
library or have more people apply and get accepted. Who are they done by?
They're done by the media. And people tend to feel that they're very objective,
and that's just not true.'

Less than 8 per cent of 158 administrators at small, four-year liberal arts
colleges said they thought the US News guide accurately described their
institution, according to a survey by the Northern Illinois University's public
opinion laboratory.

The president of Alma College in Michigan in January asked his counterparts at
480 other liberal arts schools to boycott requests by US News for their opinions
of each other's schools. These so-called 'academic reputation' evaluations are
used to calculate the rankings.

A magazine spokesman said the move was 'sour grapes' because Alma was ranked in
the second-to-last tier of national liberal arts colleges.

Students at 75 universities and colleges have formed the 'Forget US News
Coalition', or FUNC, and asked the magazine to list schools alphabetically and
not by numerical rank.

Nick Thompson, vice president of the student association at Stanford University
and a founder of the anti-ranking movement, said: 'The rankings are too
powerful. Millions of people take them very seriously, but they're fundamentally
a very silly thing. A college education is not a dishwasher. You can take the
qualities of a dishwasher and you can say this is what makes a good dishwasher.
But what makes a good university for me and what makes a good university for
somebody else may be two very different things.'

Mr Morse responded that the students and administrators who object to college
guides like his are uneasy about their influence.

But Mr Thompson said the guides are simply much too influential. He said some
universities and colleges are making policy decisions 'not because of what is
best for education, but for what will look good in the rankings'.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                      Copyright 1997 TSL Education Limited


                              671 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    September 16, 1991, Monday, City Edition

State schools are at home in the top 5

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: SPORTS; COLLEGE FOOTBALL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 463 words



The University of Florida moved up to fifth in the latest Associated Press Top
25 college football poll, meaning all three of the state's major-college
football powers are in the top five.

    Florida State which crushed Western Michigan 58-0 Saturday night remained
No. , and Miami which cruised past Houston 40-10 Thursday stayed at No. . The
Gators whipped Alabama 35-0 Saturday and moved up one spot in the poll.

    Tennessee, Nebraska and Iowa moved into the Top 10, and Notre Dame dropped
out of the group for the first time in three years.  Tennessee jumped five spots
to sixth after a 30-16 victory over UCLA, and Nebraska rose four places to ninth
after routing Colorado State 71-14. Iowa, which beat Iowa State 29-10, went from
14th to 10th. No. 1 Notre Dame fell from seventh after losing to Michigan 24-14.
It's the Irish's lowest ranking since the second regular-season poll in 1988,
when they were 13th.

    USC's 21-10 upset of Penn State had a major impact on the Top 25, dropping
the Nittany Lions from fifth to 12th and moving the Trojans into the rankings at
No. 2.

    California gained a ranking for the first time since 1977 after beating
Purdue 42-18. No. 5 Georgia last was ranked in 1989.
 Late Saturday
 Miami quarterback Gino Torretta, who completed 16 of 35 passes for 365 yards
and four touchdowns in a 40-10 rout of Houston on Thursday, was named Big East
Conference offensive player of the week.

 AP Top 25
 Record Pts Pvs
 1. FSU (47)      3-0-0 1,436 1
 2. Miami (8)             2-0-0 1,345 2
 3. Michigan (1)          2-0-0 1,329 3
 4. Wash. (1)        1-0-0 1,270 4
 5. Florida (1)           2-0-0 1,250 6
 6. Tennessee             2-0-0 1,10711
 7. Oklahoma              1-0-0 1,047 9
 8. Clemson               1-0-0 1,028 8
 9. Nebraska              2-0-0    89913
 10. Iowa                  2-0-0    86414
 11. Notre Dame            1-1-0    856 7
 12. Penn St.              2-1-0    715 5
 13. Auburn                2-0-0    71115
 14. Baylor                2-0-0    63823
 15. Texas A&M             1-0-0    61120
 16. Ohio St.              2-0-0    52619
 17. Ga. Tech          1-1-0    49117
 18. Syracuse              2-0-0    40422
 19. Colorado              1-1-0    36512
 20. Pitt            3-0-0    35024
 21. Houston               1-1-0    33610
 22. USC                   1-1-0    309 23. Miss. St.       3-0-0    30225
 24. California            2-0-0    119 25. Georgia               2-0-0    116
First-place votes in parentheses.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              672 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             August 4, 2009 Tuesday

Survey: Gustavus Adolphus ranks in top 10 for 'best campus food'

BYLINE: By Robb Murray Mankato Free Press

SECTION: BREAKING; Education; Food

LENGTH: 428 words


There's still good eatin' at Gustavus Adolphus College.

For the second straight year, the St. Peter college ranked highly in the Best
Campus Food list in Princeton Review's annual ranking of colleges.

Princeton Review, which is not affiliated with Princeton University, surveys
students across the country for its annual rankings. They ask hundreds of
questions and come with rankings in categories such as Best Dorms and Happiest
Students. There is also Most Liberal Students, Most Conservative Students and
Most Beautiful Campus.

The rankings come out every year, and the latest edition came out last week in
"The Best 371 Colleges" ( Random House/Princeton Review, $22.99).

"We are very proud whenever our students feel they are receiving excellent
services," Gustavus Adolphus College President Jack Ohle said in a written
statement. "They come to Gustavus Adolphus College because of our outstanding
faculty and high-quality programs. We continually strive to provide our students
with the best overall experience that they expect and deserve -- from academics
to student life."

Gustavus' food service has for several years tried to enhance the nutritional
value of its food service offerings. A trip through the cafeteria reveals many
choices, from rotisserie chicken and pizza to stir-fry and salad bar.

They've also worked with the the Campus Greens to decrease the amount of waste
produced. The college instituted a program called "Gustieware" where reusable
containers replaced the bulky disposable ones.

The full list in the Best Campus Food category includes 20 colleges and
universities. This is GAC's second year in the top 10.

"It is particularly gratifying that the rankings arise from student supplied
data -- the very best and most honest source of critical feedback," said Steve
Kjellgren, Gustavus's dining service director.

Added junior Erin Watt, "It's nice to have such a variety of food to choose from
after a long day of classes."

The survey asked 122,000 students at 371 top colleges to rate their schools on
dozens of topics and report on their campus experiences.

The best professors are at Davidson College in North Carolina. Students
apparently are happiest with their financial aid at Swarthmore College in
Pennsylvania. The prettiest campus is Colgate University in New York. And while
Gustavus ranked highly in the food category, the winner on that list was
Virginia Tech. Other ranking lists in the book are: Best Career Services --
University of Florida; Best Classroom Experience -- Pomona College; Most
Accessible Profs -- U. S. Military Academy.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              673 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             January 5, 2015 Monday

Students lose out in university numbers game

LENGTH: 760  words

DATELINE: Long Beach


California State University, Long Beach has issued the following news release:

If you thought the deluge of holiday catalogs and charitable solicitations this
season was overwhelming, consider what high school seniors confronted this fall:
hundreds of mailers from colleges and universities suggesting that they apply
and implying they might have a shot, even if they haven't met the schools' high
standards.

Why so much marketing? It is largely the result of the college rankings compiled
by publications, most notably U.S. News and World Report, that offer extra
weight in their listings to schools with low "admit rates" -- those that offer
admission to relatively few of the students who apply. There was a time when
this sort of selectivity may have been an indicator of actual educational
excellence, at least in part. But thanks to the rankings-driven race among
colleges to appear increasingly choosy, it's no longer so clear what the admit
rate means.

Schools are now lowering their admit rate by inveigling more students into
applying -- thus the shower of mailers, as well as hundreds of emails and the
occasional telemarketing call. And it works, to the detriment of parents'
wallets. Today, partly because of all the marketing and recruitment, students
are applying to about twice as many colleges as they did 15 years ago. As
admission rates have dropped to as low as 5% among the most elite colleges,
students have applied to even more of them. It's no longer very unusual for a
student to file applications to 15 schools, at $80 or so a pop. (Though a few
colleges are upping the number of applicants further by making the process free
and pushing their deadlines later.)

Turning this around will take a near-revolution among college leaders and
families.

Colleges wanted this -- but also are paying for it. By cajoling more students
into applying in order to lower their admit rate, they're inadvertently
threatening their "yield rate" -- the proportion of students who are accepted
who ultimately decide to attend the school. That number is used in some of the
rankings because, like the admit rate, it is also a supposed sign of
desirability. (U.S. News dropped the yield rate from its calculations a decade
ago in response to complaints.)

To address the yield rate problem, admissions offices these days are hiring
expensive specialists to gauge whether applicants will say yes -- and they
factor that into the decision to accept or reject. They look for signs of
"demonstrated interest" in the school, including whether the applicants have
visited, how many times they've contacted the admissions office, whether they've
reached out to faculty. This works against students who apply to many schools;
it's time-consuming to demonstrate interest in all of them. What's more, it
means that some students are turned down by schools even though they're
qualified and may want to attend.

The rankings have become far too powerful, and schools have allowed it to
happen. No doubt schools believe many students decide which college to attend
based on the rankings, but it is a shame that they have been willing to tailor
their admissions criteria and processes in response.

Selectivity and yield, which had always been indicators of popularity, now
indicate which colleges spend lavishly on yield experts and marketing. Of all
the factors that college rankings take into account, these are the least useful
for picking a good school, and the most damaging to students and the admissions
process.

Turning this around will take a near-revolution among college leaders and
families. High school counselors have been telling students for years that their
happiness in college and their future success will depend more on finding the
right fit than in responding to the glossy brochures or the magazine rankings.
Students and parents need to start listening, because it's true.

As for the schools, they need to be brave. It would be easiest for the
top-ranked colleges, including the richest, most famous Ivy League schools, to
start the ball rolling. They have the least to lose because their reputations
are solid and they'll always draw plenty of students. They could demand that
rankings publications at the very least eliminate these two counterproductive
measurements, vowing not to provide any information at all for the rankings if
that doesn't happen. If those colleges and universities led the way, others
might muster the courage to follow.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              674 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          December 31, 2014 Wednesday

Students lose out in university numbers game

LENGTH: 760  words

DATELINE: Long Beach


California State University, Long Beach has issued the following news release:

If you thought the deluge of holiday catalogs and charitable solicitations this
season was overwhelming, consider what high school seniors confronted this fall:
hundreds of mailers from colleges and universities suggesting that they apply
and implying they might have a shot, even if they haven't met the schools' high
standards.

Why so much marketing? It is largely the result of the college rankings compiled
by publications, most notably U.S. News and World Report, that offer extra
weight in their listings to schools with low "admit rates" -- those that offer
admission to relatively few of the students who apply. There was a time when
this sort of selectivity may have been an indicator of actual educational
excellence, at least in part. But thanks to the rankings-driven race among
colleges to appear increasingly choosy, it's no longer so clear what the admit
rate means.

Schools are now lowering their admit rate by inveigling more students into
applying -- thus the shower of mailers, as well as hundreds of emails and the
occasional telemarketing call. And it works, to the detriment of parents'
wallets. Today, partly because of all the marketing and recruitment, students
are applying to about twice as many colleges as they did 15 years ago. As
admission rates have dropped to as low as 5% among the most elite colleges,
students have applied to even more of them. It's no longer very unusual for a
student to file applications to 15 schools, at $80 or so a pop. (Though a few
colleges are upping the number of applicants further by making the process free
and pushing their deadlines later.)

Turning this around will take a near-revolution among college leaders and
families.

Colleges wanted this -- but also are paying for it. By cajoling more students
into applying in order to lower their admit rate, they're inadvertently
threatening their "yield rate" -- the proportion of students who are accepted
who ultimately decide to attend the school. That number is used in some of the
rankings because, like the admit rate, it is also a supposed sign of
desirability. (U.S. News dropped the yield rate from its calculations a decade
ago in response to complaints.)

To address the yield rate problem, admissions offices these days are hiring
expensive specialists to gauge whether applicants will say yes -- and they
factor that into the decision to accept or reject. They look for signs of
"demonstrated interest" in the school, including whether the applicants have
visited, how many times they've contacted the admissions office, whether they've
reached out to faculty. This works against students who apply to many schools;
it's time-consuming to demonstrate interest in all of them. What's more, it
means that some students are turned down by schools even though they're
qualified and may want to attend.

The rankings have become far too powerful, and schools have allowed it to
happen. No doubt schools believe many students decide which college to attend
based on the rankings, but it is a shame that they have been willing to tailor
their admissions criteria and processes in response.

Selectivity and yield, which had always been indicators of popularity, now
indicate which colleges spend lavishly on yield experts and marketing. Of all
the factors that college rankings take into account, these are the least useful
for picking a good school, and the most damaging to students and the admissions
process.

Turning this around will take a near-revolution among college leaders and
families. High school counselors have been telling students for years that their
happiness in college and their future success will depend more on finding the
right fit than in responding to the glossy brochures or the magazine rankings.
Students and parents need to start listening, because it's true.

As for the schools, they need to be brave. It would be easiest for the
top-ranked colleges, including the richest, most famous Ivy League schools, to
start the ball rolling. They have the least to lose because their reputations
are solid and they'll always draw plenty of students. They could demand that
rankings publications at the very least eliminate these two counterproductive
measurements, vowing not to provide any information at all for the rankings if
that doesn't happen. If those colleges and universities led the way, others
might muster the courage to follow.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              675 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          December 24, 2014 Wednesday

Students lose out in university numbers game

LENGTH: 760  words

DATELINE: Long Beach


California State University, Long Beach has issued the following news release:

If you thought the deluge of holiday catalogs and charitable solicitations this
season was overwhelming, consider what high school seniors confronted this fall:
hundreds of mailers from colleges and universities suggesting that they apply
and implying they might have a shot, even if they haven't met the schools' high
standards.

Why so much marketing? It is largely the result of the college rankings compiled
by publications, most notably U.S. News and World Report, that offer extra
weight in their listings to schools with low "admit rates" -- those that offer
admission to relatively few of the students who apply. There was a time when
this sort of selectivity may have been an indicator of actual educational
excellence, at least in part. But thanks to the rankings-driven race among
colleges to appear increasingly choosy, it's no longer so clear what the admit
rate means.

Schools are now lowering their admit rate by inveigling more students into
applying -- thus the shower of mailers, as well as hundreds of emails and the
occasional telemarketing call. And it works, to the detriment of parents'
wallets. Today, partly because of all the marketing and recruitment, students
are applying to about twice as many colleges as they did 15 years ago. As
admission rates have dropped to as low as 5% among the most elite colleges,
students have applied to even more of them. It's no longer very unusual for a
student to file applications to 15 schools, at $80 or so a pop. (Though a few
colleges are upping the number of applicants further by making the process free
and pushing their deadlines later.)

Turning this around will take a near-revolution among college leaders and
families.

Colleges wanted this -- but also are paying for it. By cajoling more students
into applying in order to lower their admit rate, they're inadvertently
threatening their "yield rate" -- the proportion of students who are accepted
who ultimately decide to attend the school. That number is used in some of the
rankings because, like the admit rate, it is also a supposed sign of
desirability. (U.S. News dropped the yield rate from its calculations a decade
ago in response to complaints.)

To address the yield rate problem, admissions offices these days are hiring
expensive specialists to gauge whether applicants will say yes -- and they
factor that into the decision to accept or reject. They look for signs of
"demonstrated interest" in the school, including whether the applicants have
visited, how many times they've contacted the admissions office, whether they've
reached out to faculty. This works against students who apply to many schools;
it's time-consuming to demonstrate interest in all of them. What's more, it
means that some students are turned down by schools even though they're
qualified and may want to attend.

The rankings have become far too powerful, and schools have allowed it to
happen. No doubt schools believe many students decide which college to attend
based on the rankings, but it is a shame that they have been willing to tailor
their admissions criteria and processes in response.

Selectivity and yield, which had always been indicators of popularity, now
indicate which colleges spend lavishly on yield experts and marketing. Of all
the factors that college rankings take into account, these are the least useful
for picking a good school, and the most damaging to students and the admissions
process.

Turning this around will take a near-revolution among college leaders and
families. High school counselors have been telling students for years that their
happiness in college and their future success will depend more on finding the
right fit than in responding to the glossy brochures or the magazine rankings.
Students and parents need to start listening, because it's true.

As for the schools, they need to be brave. It would be easiest for the
top-ranked colleges, including the richest, most famous Ivy League schools, to
start the ball rolling. They have the least to lose because their reputations
are solid and they'll always draw plenty of students. They could demand that
rankings publications at the very least eliminate these two counterproductive
measurements, vowing not to provide any information at all for the rankings if
that doesn't happen. If those colleges and universities led the way, others
might muster the courage to follow.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              676 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 14, 2013 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Metric For Colleges: Graduates' Salaries

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1730 words


U.S. News & World Report released its eagerly anticipated annual rankings of
universities and colleges this week, and two of the usual suspects -- Princeton
University and Williams College -- came out on top. Prospective students and
their parents can evaluate these institutions on a variety of measures deemed
important by U.S. News.

What they won't find is any way to assess what some consider the most important
issue in this still-tough economy: How much can graduates of these schools
expect to earn?

For those answers, long a taboo within the hallowed walls of academia, they can
turn to PayScale.com. Like U.S. News, PayScale this week released its latest
rankings of colleges and universities. But its rankings are all about incomes
and jobs. It ranks over a thousand institutions by the average earnings of their
graduates. It also calculates and ranks the average return on investment for a
college and the percentage of graduates holding jobs with ''high meaning.'' Some
of those results may come as a shock, especially to graduates of some
prestigious colleges.

There's a fairly high correlation between the reputation and
selectivity-weighted rankings of U.S. News and the future earnings measures of
PayScale. Ivy League graduates do quite well by both measures, with Princeton
ranked sixth and Harvard eighth in PayScale's rankings based on ''midcareer
median salary.''

But many liberal arts colleges suffer in the comparison, including some
prestigious ones. Oberlin, 25th on the U.S. News list of national liberal arts
colleges, is 218th on the PayScale ranking; Colorado College, 31 on the U.S.
News list, is 291; and Grinnell, at 17 on U.S. News, is 366.

Elon University, ranked by U.S. News as the No. 1 regional university in the
South, is a distant 587 on PayScale's list.

And there's a notable gender gap. Women's colleges rank especially low:
Wellesley (U.S. News, 7) is 304; Barnard (U.S. News, 32) is 221; Smith (U.S.
News, 20) is 455; and Bryn Mawr (U.S. News, 30) is 562. (A PayScale spokeswoman
said that's because the women's colleges still don't produce enough graduates in
engineering, science and technology, the fields that draw the highest salaries.)

The top of the list is dominated by engineering schools, including Harvey Mudd
College (16 on the U.S. News ranking of liberal arts colleges, first on
PayScale's); the California Institute of Technology (U.S. News, 10; PayScale,
3); Stevens Institute of Technology (U.S. News, 82; tied for third place on
PayScale); and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (U.S. News, 7;
PayScale, 11). The Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology in Terre Haute, Ind.,
isn't even ranked by U.S. News but ties for 20 on PayScale -- ahead of the
University of Notre Dame (24). The national military academies, as well as the
Virginia Military Institute, also rank high on PayScale's list.

PayScale's rankings are just one manifestation of a growing nationwide movement
toward quantifying the outcomes of college education based on economic factors
like income and employment. The Obama administration wants to rank colleges by
tuition, graduation rates, debt and earnings of graduates, and use the rankings
to influence federal financial aid to students.

But this can lead to some absurd and potentially alarming conclusions.

In Virginia, the top-ranked college based on graduates' first-year income isn't
the nationally known Washington and Lee University, the University of Richmond,
the College of William and Mary or even Thomas Jefferson's University of
Virginia. It's the Jefferson College of Health Sciences.

''People are desperate to measure something, so they seize on the wrong
things,'' Mark Edmundson, a professor of English at the University of Virginia
(PayScale, 76), told me this week. ''I'm not against people making a living or
prospering. But if the objective of an education is to 'know yourself,' it's
going to be hard to measure that.''

Professor Edmundson is author of the recent book ''Why Teach? In Defense of a
Real Education,'' which argues that education should transform students by
challenging and expanding their conceptions of themselves. ''Self-realization
doesn't just mean sitting around discussing Plato and Socrates,'' he said. ''It
means figuring out what job or profession would I be best at and what I would
enjoy. Too many people are just aiming for a high salary. They struggle through
college, they don't like their classes, they don't like their job and they end
up failing. If they had taken the time to discover themselves, they might have
ended up happy and prosperous.''

Andrew Delbanco, director of American studies at Columbia University (PayScale,
54) and author of ''College, What Was, Is, and Should Be,'' said: ''It's
understandable and entirely legitimate that students and families are worrying
about the 'return' on their investment in college -- especially as tuition
continues to rise too high and too fast. But there are lots of troubling
questions that follow. Should returns in dollars be the only measure of
educational value? What does that say about the traditional mission of college
to educate young people for engaged citizenship, and to provide opportunities
for self-fulfillment in ways that do not necessarily line up with income and
status?''

Professor Delbanco added that a focus on prospective income to the exclusion of
other values ''runs a high risk of distorting the college itself and pushing it
to become a referral or employment agency even more than it already is.''

Even the president of top-ranked Harvey Mudd, Maria Klawe, sounded a cautionary
note. ''We're proud we're getting the recognition, but it has very little to do
with what we do.'' She noted that Mudd students were required to take 30 percent
of their course in the humanities, social sciences or arts, which she said was
the highest for any engineering and technology school in the country. Mudd's
demanding curriculum and tough grading standards mean ''our students aren't
picking us for the salaries. They could study at a much less rigorous place and
earn the same salaries.''

Still, she acknowledged that ''parents are relieved their offspring will earn
something.'' She said the median starting salary for last year's graduates who
took jobs was $77,500, and 23 graduates, or more than 10 percent of the
graduating class, had six-figure starting salaries. Dr. Klawe said that a few
years ago, a student landed a $280,000 starting salary after designing a
high-speed trading algorithm during his summer internship.

Robert Morse, the director of data research for U.S. News, who is in charge of
compiling the college rankings, said it currently did not include income data
because it did not consider the data adequately comprehensive or reliable.
(PayScale says its rankings are based on data from 1.4 million college
graduates.) Should that change -- if, for example, the Obama administration
requires comprehensive nationwide reporting -- U.S. News would use it in the
rankings, Mr. Morse said.

''People are investing a lot of money in a four-year degree, in some cases
$240,000, and they're entitled to know what they can expect when they finish,''
he said. ''But you have to be very careful how you analyze the data. Just
because Harvey Mudd produces science, engineering and technology graduates who
get high salaries, does that make it the best school in America? How do you
value teaching and other fields valuable to society that aren't paid nearly as
much?''

Even proponents of income-based rankings concede that that is just one of many
dimensions to consider when choosing a college. Katie Bardaro, lead economist
for PayScale's survey, said that the company always made that point. ''But
prospective students need to consider their potential career success with a
degree from that school,'' she said. ''Jobs are harder and harder to come by,
student debt is huge, and the costs of schools are rising faster than inflation.
We don't see this changing anytime soon.''

Mark Schneider, president of College Measures, a venture that is compiling
salary data based on both college and field of study and making it available on
its Web site, said that ''students should choose a college and a career for many
reasons, but we believe income data should be in the mix.'' He added: ''If you
go to Harvard or Yale, more power to you. But most students go to schools no one
has ever heard of. They don't graduate with a great Rolodex. They don't have
family wealth behind them. They need to know the likely outcome about the degree
and the school they're choosing. This is their one shot and it had better be
something that gets them a well-paying job.''

Richard Ekman, president of the Council of Independent Colleges, which
represents 600 private colleges and universities, said he had concerns ''about
the simplistic use of any of these indicators.'' Income data ''may be helpful,
but no indicator alone should be determinative,'' he said. ''How do you measure
the value of graduate school, the Peace Corps or Teach for America, all of which
are low-paying? It's scary to see some public official seize on these metrics as
the be-all and end-all.''

And he vigorously disputed the notion that a liberal arts education should be
reserved for the 1 percent. ''Private education isn't just for wealthy people or
an elite,'' he said. In part, thanks to aggressive scholarship programs, ''the
track record for private colleges that admit lots of first-generation and
low-income kids is much better than most state universities.''

Professor Edmundson agreed that class distinctions were a red herring, and said
that even vocational programs would benefit from courses in the humanities.
''Everyone by virtue of being a human being should have a right to think about
who they are and what might make them successful,'' he said.

And he challenged the idea that choosing a college or major based on a projected
high salary was a sure path to security. ''There's a parental myth that at a
certain point you can relax and enjoy your golden years if your child is settled
and has a stable job in a profession that will bring them a high income. But the
truth is, no one is ever settled, disasters can happen, institutions can
collapse and even high-paying jobs go away.''

His own son, he noted, a recent graduate of the University of Virginia, is
working in a bicycle shop and writing a novel.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/09/14/business/economy/nice-college
-but-whatll-i-make-when-i-graduate.html

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Celebrating graduation at Harvey Mudd College. Its graduates are
No. 1 in midcareer salaries among colleges and universities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
HARVEY MUDD COLLEGE) (B4) CHARTS: Mismatched Rankings: A comparison of the
widely read U.S. News & World Report annual ranking of the best colleges and
universities with a ranking by PayScale of the midcareer salaries of graduates.
(Sources: U.S. News & World Report
 PayScale) (B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              677 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                     September 7, 2001 Friday, Home Edition

Georgia colleges ranked near top

BYLINE: KELLY SIMMONS

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Metro News; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 302 words


When it comes to national college rankings, Georgia schools are right among the
best.

Emory University (18th) and Georgia Tech (41st) remain among the top 50 best
U.S. universities, according to U.S. News & World Report magazine, which
released its rankings of undergraduate colleges and universities Thursday.

Emory was ranked 18th last year, while Tech was 35th.

Among public universities, Tech ranked 10th, a slight decline from 8th place
last year.

The University of Georgia ranked 18th, up from 20th last year.

Tech's engineering program is ranked 6th in the nation this year, compared with
8th last year.

Georgia Tech President Wayne Clough said he is not worried about the school's
dip in the overall rankings and is pleased to see a technology school ranked
among more comprehensive universities.

"They fairly consistently show Tech in the top 10," Clough said. "We're the only
one like us in the top 10."

The magazine uses student retention and graduation rates, faculty resources and
academic reputation in compiling the rankings. Princeton University is the
top-ranked school in the country.

For Emory, it is the 10th year the school has been ranked in the top 20.

"Although we stayed the same as last year and we quibble about the value of
these rankings, they recognize the overall quality of Emory as being in the top
20 in the nation and that's good no matter how you look at it," interim Provost
Woody Hunter said.

Other notable rankings include Clark Atlanta University, which is ranked among
the top 200 universities overall; Agnes Scott College, which ranks as 18th best
liberal arts college for the money; and Georgia State University, which --- with
a 35 percent African-American student population --- ranked as the 17th most
diverse school in the country.

LOAD-DATE: September 07, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 The Atlanta Constitution


                              678 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                             August 22, 2010 Sunday

The business of rankings

BYLINE: Dzulkifli Abdul Razak

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 811 words


THE rankings game is here again. This time it involves two types of rankings
that allow us to understand what the game is all about from different
perspectives.

Firstly, it is hardly surprising that United States' Harvard University once
again - for the eighth consecutive year - topped a recent world universities
rankings published by Shanghai Jaiotong University.

The results of the rankings are sharply criticised in Europe as the list is
dominated by American institutions with the University of California, Berkeley
being second, followed by Stanford University.

It is focused almost entirely on a university's scientific research achievements
and does not cover the humanities. It is allegedly not an accurate reflection of
an institution's overall "performance" - a term that also created controversy
over the assessment of a university! More about that later.

The criteria include the numbers of the following: Nobel prizes and Fields
medals won by faculty members and alumni, highly cited researchers on staff and
articles by faculty published in Nature and Science journals.

Schools in the United States reportedly accounted for 54 per cent of the top 100
universities listed.

And not surprisingly, "in Europe ... officials say the criteria are biased
against European schools". But then who says rankings are free from prejudices?

The rankings by Shanghai Jaiotong University was first initiated in 2002 with
the aim "to benchmark the performance of Chinese universities, amid efforts by
Beijing to create a set of world-class research institutions", which is almost
always based on the American norms and systems.

This is reflected in the result where the highest ranked non-US institutions are
relegated to lower positions in the ranking.

Britain's Cambridge and Oxford Universities are in fifth and 10th places
respectively this year.

The European continent's top-rated institute was Swiss Federal Institute of
Technology in Zurich, at 23rd, while Pierre and Marie Curie University in Paris
was the highest ranked French school in 39th position. University of Tokyo, in
the 20th place, was the best rated in the Asia-Pacific. The top Chinese schools
were not among the 100 best globally.

Secondly, a report released almost at the same time by Forbes magazine and the
Center for College Affordability and Productivity (CCAP) in Washington DC in the
US clearly demonstrated how rankings can be a variant of one another.

In this case, Williams College was named the No. 1 tertiary institution in the
US for 2010.

The Massachusetts liberal arts private college with about 2,000 students
"surpassed top Ivy League schools such as Princeton University, Harvard and Yale
University, which came in second, eighth and 10th respectively on the Forbes
list.

Amherst College, another small liberal arts school, ranked third, while
Massachusetts Institute of Technology placed fifth.

The United States Military Academy, which ranked No. 1 last year, dropped to
fourth place this year.

The rankings was compiled from both qualitative and quantitative information
acquired from college students based on criteria that "Forbes and the CCAP
considered such as student satisfaction, postgraduate success, student debt,
four-year graduation rate and how many students and faculty win prestigious
awards such as Rhodes Scholarships or Nobel Prizes".

Sites such as RateMyProfessors.com and MyPlan.com to understand the level of
contentment students felt about their colleges also contributed to the ranking.

Salary information from Payscale.com was used to gauge the success of alumni.

Rankings are not a linear measure of the "quality" of education as they are made
out.

This is further supported by the 2009 report of the Swedish National Agency for
Higher Education as an assignment by the government to survey and analyse the
issues related to ranking.

It noted that "weighted rankings of entire higher education institutions are
particularly problematic".

Quite simply, they provide too little information. They also assume that all the
potential target groups have a common and very precise definition of quality --
a description which may be seriously questioned in terms of indicators, methods,
reliability and, particularly, relevance.

"An awareness that simplification of information also involves a loss of
information is required, and that information simplified to such an extent -
called for in weighted ranking lists - is hardly information worth the name, in
the context of the quality of higher education."

The once highly regarded The Times Higher Education Supplement - Quacquarelli
Symonds World University Rankings, which is now defunct, is a perfect
illustration of an unwholesome dimension to rankings.

And as they say in business, caveat emptor (let the buyer beware). The business
of ranking is no different!

The writer is vice chancellor of Universiti Sains Malaysia

( END )

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2010 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


                              679 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 19, 2013 Thursday

Williams Climbs in US News Rankings

LENGTH: 157  words

DATELINE: Little Rock


Williams Baptist College has issued the following news release:

Williams Baptist College has moved higher in the rankings of US News & World
Report. The magazine issued its annual college rankings Tuesday, and Williams is
again listed in the top tier of liberal arts colleges in the South.

Williams is now ranked 51st among colleges in this region of the country, which
is an improvement of four spots over last year. WBC has been in the magazine's
top tier for four straight years and has climbed incrementally each year.

"It is very gratifying to see Williams moving up again in the US News rankings,
and we firmly believe it indicates the growing reputation of the college," said
WBC President Dr. Tom Jones. "This is a great example of Williams fulfilling its
mission to provide an excellent, Christian, liberal arts education."

WBC is a four-year, liberal arts college at Walnut Ridge.

For more information please visit: http://www.wbcoll.edu.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              680 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                            August 17, 2010 Tuesday

US News college rankings: Here are the Top 5 value schools;
US News college rankings were released Tuesday and, not surprisingly, Harvard,
Princeton, and Yale grabbed the three top spots. But US News also rated the
colleges and universities by value. Here are the Top 5 high-quality national
universities whose typical financial aid package covers the most college costs,
including books and transportation:

BYLINE: Laurent Belsie Staff writer

LENGTH: 432 words


US News college rankings were released Tuesday and, not surprisingly, Harvard,
Princeton, and Yale grabbed the three top spots. But US News also rated the
colleges and universities by value. Here are the Top 5 high-quality national
universities whose typical financial aid package covers the most college costs,
including books and transportation:

#5 Stanford University

Stanford gives 49 percent of its students need-based grants, the lowest share of
the Top 5 value universities, according to the US News college rankings. And it
has the second-highest tuition and fees: $39,201. Nevertheless, its aid package
on average covers a generous 69 percent of total costs, making it the No. 5 best
value national university on US News college rankings. That's not even counting
the great weather.

#4 Massachusetts Institute of Technology

MIT's tuition and fees total $39,212, which are the highest among the Top 5
value universities. But the engineering powerhouse offers need-based grants to
62 percent of their students, which is also the highest percentage of any of the
Top 5 universities. The grants on average cover 68 percent of the school's total
costs, which allows students of modest means to get a first-rate education.

#3 Princeton University

The school offers need-based grants to 59 percent of its 5,100 undergraduates.
The average grant covers a generous 69 percent of total schools costs. Tuition
and fees run $36,640 a year, which over the years has fueled an institution that
has hosted some pretty famous people over the years, from Albert Einstein to
former economics professor Ben Bernanke.

#2 Harvard University

In overall quality, Harvard ranked No. 1 in the US News ranking of universities.
And with a huge $26 billion endowment, it extends need-based financial grants to
60 percent of its undergraduates, which covers on average 72 percent of total
annual costs. But as hard as Harvard tries to remain accessible to students who
need financial help, it couldn't quite top the No. 1 value leader...

#1 Yale University

Yale often plays Miss Congeniality to Harvard and Princeton in the overall
rankings of US News & World Report. (It rated No. 3 this year among national
universities.) But in terms of value, it grabbed top billing - and no wonder.
Although the New Haven, Conn., university extends need-based grants to just 54
percent of its undergraduates, it has the most generous need-based grants,
covering an average 73 percent of total costs. That's the highest percentage of
any of the 50 top universities that US News rated this year. Tuition and fees
run $38,300 annually.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2010 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              681 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             August 6, 2007 Monday
                            0 South Pinellas Edition

DO YOUR HOMEWORK ON COLLEGE RANKINGS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 501 words


Prospective college students should not give too much weight to magazine
rankings in choosing a university. They need to do their homework, and
fortunately schools of higher education are starting to better educate potential
applicants. Several university associations, members of Congress and a
commission created by Education Secretary Margaret Spellings are calling for
better comparable databases for students and parents.

Many have complained that the U.S. News & World Report rankings aren't
particularly meaningful. The magazine attempts to assign positions to each
institution, listing the top half in sequential order and lumping the rest into
tiers three or four.

The problem, as Eckerd College president Donald R. Eastman III pointed out in
announcing his school no longer will submit data, is that the magazine lacks a
scientific formula and every school is unique. How would you reasonably compare
Dartmouth College, a private Ivy League institution with modest enrollment, to
the University of California at Berkeley, a public academic and athletic giant?
It's not possible in a simplistic ranking system.

U.S. News tries to rank schools by using statistics and peer review. There are
problems with both. The statistical aspects of the magazine's grade can be
easily manipulated. For instance, a school can increase its "selectivity rank"
by soliciting applications from students it has no intention of admitting.

The magazine asks university presidents for their assessments of dozens of
schools, but it's not realistic to think that most have intimate knowledge of
more than a handful of colleges.

"It becomes, 'Oh, well, I've heard Harvard is pretty good,' " said Eastman, a
member of the Annapolis Group, an association of presidents of liberal arts
schools that recently decided to form its own system for students to compare
schools.

The New York Times reports that the group is working with the National
Association of Independent Colleges and Universities and the Council of
Independent Colleges and hopes to produce a Web site comparing enrollment,
graduation rates and net tuition costs by September.

Two public school associations are working on another site that would show
statistics on student satisfaction and participation, and how much they actually
learned based on standardized tests. A group of research universities is working
to come up with data on student costs and performance.

All of these new measures are a welcome addition for students facing a decision
about college.

U.S. News' primary goal is to sell magazines, not help high school students make
a wise decision about where to further their education. The quality of an
institution usually doesn't vary greatly from year to year, but the rankings do
because no one is going to buy the 2007 edition if it's the same as the 2006
issue.

This isn't to say that U.S. News rankings are useless. They can be a starting
point, but ending research with a single ranking or a database sells both a
student and an institution short.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CHERIE DIEZ - Times (2006): Eckerd College president Donald
Eastman announced the school will no longer submit data to U.S. News.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              682 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 12, 2015 Thursday

A-State Receives 'Best for Vets' Ranking for Seventh Straight Time

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Jonesboro: Arkansas State University has issued the following news release:



  For the seventh straight time, Arkansas State University is named to the
coveted Military Times &ldquo;Best for Vets: Colleges 2016&rdquo; rankings. The
rankings in the Military Times' annual survey indicate the most comprehensive
school-by-school assessment of veteran and military student services and rates
of academic achievement. A-State has appeared on the rankings since the survey's
inaugural year.





 &ldquo;It is very exciting and rewarding to receive this recognition seven
years in a row,&rdquo; said Kathy Hogue, Veterans Administration university
certifying official.  &ldquo;There are 400 students currently using the
Montgomery GI Bill education benefits, along with the Beck PRIDE Center for
America's Wounded Veterans.  Arkansas State University makes every effort to
ensure that all military personnel and dependents receive the best educational
opportunities possible.&rdquo;



 &ldquo;Best for Vets: Colleges 2016&rdquo; is an editorially independent news
project that evaluates the many factors which help make colleges and
universities a good fit for service members, military veterans and their
families. More than 600 colleges took part in this year's detailed survey.
Arkansas State is ranked 100 of the 175 represented colleges and universities.



 &ldquo;We award the Best for Vets designation to the very best colleges that
really are setting the example,&rdquo; said Amanda Miller, editor of Military
Times' Best for Vets rankings and special editions.



 According to a Board of Trustees policy, A-State offers in-state tuition rates
for active duty U.S. military personnel and their dependents, as well as
veterans who are honorably discharged, regardless of the individual's duty
station or residence.



 Military Times' annual Best for Vets: Colleges survey asks colleges and
universities to meticulously document a tremendous array of services, special
rules, accommodations and financial incentives offered to students with military
ties, and to describe many aspects of veteran culture on a campus. Military
Times also factors in data from the Veterans Affairs and Defense departments, as
well as three Education Department sources: the IPEDS Data Center, College
Scorecard data and the Cohort Default Rate Database.



 The rankings are published in full in the issues of Army Times, Navy Times, Air
Force Times and Marine Corps Times on newsstands the week of Nov. 9; and online
at MilitaryTimes.com, as well as ArmyTimes.com, NavyTimes.com, AirForceTimes.com
and MarineCorpsTimes.com.



 Military Times' series of Best for Vets rankings includes: colleges, career and
technical colleges, business schools, franchises, employers, law enforcement and
places to live.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              683 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 12, 2015 Thursday

A-State Receives 'Best for Vets' Ranking for Seventh Straight Time

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Jonesboro: Arkansas State University has issued the following news release:



  For the seventh straight time, Arkansas State University is named to the
coveted Military Times &ldquo;Best for Vets: Colleges 2016&rdquo; rankings. The
rankings in the Military Times' annual survey indicate the most comprehensive
school-by-school assessment of veteran and military student services and rates
of academic achievement. A-State has appeared on the rankings since the survey's
inaugural year.





 &ldquo;It is very exciting and rewarding to receive this recognition seven
years in a row,&rdquo; said Kathy Hogue, Veterans Administration university
certifying official.  &ldquo;There are 400 students currently using the
Montgomery GI Bill education benefits, along with the Beck PRIDE Center for
America's Wounded Veterans.  Arkansas State University makes every effort to
ensure that all military personnel and dependents receive the best educational
opportunities possible.&rdquo;



 &ldquo;Best for Vets: Colleges 2016&rdquo; is an editorially independent news
project that evaluates the many factors which help make colleges and
universities a good fit for service members, military veterans and their
families. More than 600 colleges took part in this year's detailed survey.
Arkansas State is ranked 100 of the 175 represented colleges and universities.



 &ldquo;We award the Best for Vets designation to the very best colleges that
really are setting the example,&rdquo; said Amanda Miller, editor of Military
Times' Best for Vets rankings and special editions.



 According to a Board of Trustees policy, A-State offers in-state tuition rates
for active duty U.S. military personnel and their dependents, as well as
veterans who are honorably discharged, regardless of the individual's duty
station or residence.



 Military Times' annual Best for Vets: Colleges survey asks colleges and
universities to meticulously document a tremendous array of services, special
rules, accommodations and financial incentives offered to students with military
ties, and to describe many aspects of veteran culture on a campus. Military
Times also factors in data from the Veterans Affairs and Defense departments, as
well as three Education Department sources: the IPEDS Data Center, College
Scorecard data and the Cohort Default Rate Database.



 The rankings are published in full in the issues of Army Times, Navy Times, Air
Force Times and Marine Corps Times on newsstands the week of Nov. 9; and online
at MilitaryTimes.com, as well as ArmyTimes.com, NavyTimes.com, AirForceTimes.com
and MarineCorpsTimes.com.



 Military Times' series of Best for Vets rankings includes: colleges, career and
technical colleges, business schools, franchises, employers, law enforcement and
places to live.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              684 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                           September 13, 2011 Tuesday

College rankings: Same US schools rise to the top again;
College rankings: US News and World Reports has released its annual report on
the best institutions of higher education in the US. These college rankings
feature a handful of Ivy League schools.

BYLINE: Pat Murphy Staff

LENGTH: 140 words


As students head back to class this month, US News and World Report has issued
its annual college rankings.

There's a tie at the top as Harvard and Princeton have been named 'best national
university.'

A pair of Ivy League schools, Yale and Columbia, are third and fourth,
respectively, in the 2011 rankings.

Four universities are tied for fifth on the list: California Institute of
Technology, Stanford, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, The University of
Chicago, and The University of Pennsylvania.

Duke University rounds out the top 10.

The periodical also rates the best liberal arts colleges and universities in the
US. Williams College of Massachusetts has been selected as the top US school in
that category.

Another Massachusetts school, Amherst College, placed second, followed by
Swarthmore College of Pennsylvania in third.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2011 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              685 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      The Free Press (Mankato, Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 5, 2009 Wednesday

GAC campus food service judged highly again: ' Best' professors at Davidson
College

BYLINE: Robb Murray, The Free Press, Mankato, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 509 words


Aug. 5--ST. PETER -- There's still good eatin' at Gustavus Adolphus College.

For the second straight year, the St. Peter college ranked highly in the Best
Campus Food list in Princeton Review's annual ranking of colleges.

Princeton Review, which is not affiliated with Princeton University, surveys
students across the country for its annual rankings. They ask hundreds of
questions and come with rankings in categories such as Best Dorms and Happiest
Students. There is also Most Liberal Students, Most Conservative Students and
Most Beautiful Campus.

The rankings come out every year, and the latest edition came out last week in
"The Best 371 Colleges" ( Random House/ Princeton Review, $22.99).

"We are very proud whenever our students feel they are receiving excellent
services," Gustavus Adolphus College President Jack Ohle said in a written
statement. "They come to Gustavus Adolphus College because of our outstanding
faculty and high- quality programs. We continually strive to provide our
students with the best overall experience that they expect and deserve -- from
academics to student life."

Gustavus' food service has for several years tried to enhance the nutritional
value of its food service offerings. A trip through the cafeteria reveals many
choices, from rotisserie chicken and pizza to stir fry and salad bar.

They've also worked with the the Campus Greens to decrease the amount of waste
produced. The college instituted a program called "Gustieware" where reusable
containers replaced the bulky disposable ones.

The full list in the Best Campus Food category includes 20 colleges and
universities. This is GAC's second year in the top 10.

"It is particularly gratifying that the rankings arise from student supplied
data -- the very best and most honest source of critical feedback," said Steve
Kjellgren, Gustavus's dining service director.

Added junior Erin Watt, "It's nice to have such a variety of food to choose from
after a long day of classes."

The survey asked 122,000 students at 371 top colleges to rate their schools on
dozens of topics and report on their campus experiences.

The best professors are at Davidson College in North Carolina. Students
apparently are happiest with their financial aid at Swarthmore College in
Pennsylvania. The prettiest campus is Colgate University in New York. And while
Gustavus ranked highly in the food category, the winner on that list was
Virginia Tech. Other ranking lists in the book are: Best Career Services --
University of Florida; Best Classroom Experience -- Pomona College; Most
Accessible Profs -- U. S. Military Academy; Most Conservative Students -- Texas
A

To see more of The Free Press or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.mankato-freepress.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, The Free Press, Mankato,
Minn. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090805-FP-GAC-campus-food-service-judged-highly-again-0805

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FP


                                 Copyright 2009


                              686 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 19, 2013 Thursday

UMFK RISES TO A TOP 10 PUBLIC COLLEGE IN THE NORTH

LENGTH: 495  words

DATELINE: Augusta


University of Maine at Fort Kent has issued the following news release:

The University of Maine at Fort Kent has achieved a significant milestone in its
meteoric rise up the ladder of top public colleges with its ranking today as a
Top 10 public college in the North region by U.S. News & World Report, according
to the 2014 edition, released by the publisher.

The latest U.S. News & World Report rankings put UMFK among the top 10 public
colleges and universities in the North region, following three consecutive years
as a top-15 public institution. UMFK first achieved top-tier college status in
U.S. News & World Report's 2011 rankings.

"I am excited that our campus has earned this distinctive recognition by U.S.
News & World Report," said University President, Wilson G. Hess. "Here at UMFK,
our focus on access to an affordable, quality college experience is one of the
great value-added opportunities in Maine higher education.

"Our small campus has excellent teaching, actively-engaged students, excels at
student success, and is part of a dynamic community. It is deeply rewarding to
have that affirmed by an organization as distinguished as U.S. News & World
Report. UMFK is justly recognized as a top-10 small public university of
regional excellence," President Hess added.

The U.S. News & World Report ranking marks the third national accolade for UMFK
in the last three weeks. Last month, UMFK was cited for the ninth-consecutive
year as a Best Northeastern College by The Princeton Review; an accolade derived
primarily from student input. UMFK also was selected for a third-consecutive
year as a College of Distinction, one of only 200 colleges and universities,
nationwide, to receive that praise.

The U.S. News ranking is based on key measures of quality that education experts
have proposed as reliable indicators of academic quality. The indices include:
peer assessment; graduation and retention rates; faculty resources; student
selectivity; financial resources; and, alumni giving.

The U.S. News rating system rests on two pillars: the formula relies on
quantitative measures that education experts have proposed as reliable
indicators of academic quality, and, are based on U.S. News' researched view of
what matters in education.

Three Maine public colleges - UMFK, the University of Maine at Presque Isle, and
Maine Maritime Academy -- are recognized in the 2014 U.S. News & World Report
top 50 North region rankings.

The North region includes the states of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont,
Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, and Maryland.

For prospective students and their families, the 2013 U.S. News rankings provide
an excellent starting point to help identify colleges and universities that are
right for them, because they offer the opportunity to judge the relative quality
of institutions based on widely-accepted indicators of excellence.

For more information please visit: http://www.umfk.edu.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              687 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                           September 20, 2005 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

UW RATED NO. 1 FOR RESEARCH;
NEW GUIDE MEASURES CONTRIBUTIONS TO SOCIETY

BYLINE: KAREN RIVEDAL krivedal@madison.com 608-252-6106

SECTION: LOCAL/WISCONSIN; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 560 words


UW-Madison is named the nation's top research university in a new college guide
that tries to measure higher education's contributions to society.

UW-Madison was ranked 12th overall by the guide among 500 public and private
colleges and universities. The top three finishers, the survey said, were MIT,
UCLA and the University of California at Berkeley.

The guide debuted in September by Washington Monthly magazine, which took a
Kennedy-esque approach to ranking colleges. Rather than look at the services and
experiences on campus that students will find, Washington Monthly focused on
broader measures of a college's contribution to the greater good, including its
efforts at public service, promoting social mobility and advancing the economy.

"While other guides ask what colleges can do for students, we ask what colleges
are doing for the country," the editors wrote in a summary.

The magazine's approach was a welcome one to UW-Madison officials, who annually
must respond to more dubious honors -- like the one from Princeton Review that
always recognizes the pervasive student drinking culture on campus. Even the
annual Best Colleges ranking from U.S. News and World Report, on which
UW-Madison consistently rates high, generates caveats from university officials,
who note that students still need to find the college that fits their particular
needs best.

In that sense, Washington Monthly's rankings are no different, UW-Madison
Chancellor John Wiley said.

"I don't believe there is a best university' any more than I believe there is a
best truck,' " he said in a statement. "There are different makes and models and
styles, and what's best for me isn't necessarily best for everyone else. The
same is true of universities."

But it's hard to complain too much about any list that says your institution
surpasses all others for university research, the powerhouse of intellectual
life on campus. The magazine arrived at its rating in part based on the total
number of science and engineering doctorates produced -- 445 in 2004 -- and on
research expenditures, listed at $662 million for that time period.

Wiley described the No. 1 research ranking from Washington Monthly as "more
evidence that we continue to place highly on a variety of different
methodologies."

He also said UW-Madison puts more weight in the rankings issued by the National
Research Council, which are considered more in-depth and rigorous by academics.
The latest NRC rankings put 16 of UW-Madison's doctoral programs in the nation's
top 10.

Martin Cadwallader, dean of the Graduate School, said the ranking confirms that
the school is doing well in terms of research and graduate education.

"In particular, it confirms our long held philosophy that there is a strong
symbiotic relationship between research and graduate education," Cadwallader
said. "Our research preeminence means that we bring much needed federal dollars
into the state that then create jobs."

Washington Monthly, meanwhile, emphasized research factors that the magazine
believes have an immediate impact on the economy. Therefore, its rankings
weighted the production of graduates and actual research spending above other
possible measures of academic productivity, such as journal citations.

By ranking first for research, UW-Madison finished ahead of institutional peers
including the University of Michigan and UCLA.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Madison Newspapers, Inc.


                              688 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 14, 2017 Thursday

College Factual considers Marietta one of the best in the nation

LENGTH: 234  words



Columbus: Marietta College has issued the following news release:
Marietta College, who has been consistently ranked among the best in the nation
by multiple organizations over the summer, is ranked 211th in College Factual's
Best Nationwide Colleges For Your Money out of 1,325 institutions that earned a
ranking.


Marietta also ranks 11th in Ohio for Best Value.
"Marietta College is committed to providing our students with robust financial
assistance, which makes our contemporary liberal arts degree attainable for
students at all income levels," said Steve Lazowski, Vice President for
Enrollment Management. "It is rewarding to see a valued source like College
Factual recognize that many students can earn a degree at Marietta at costs that
are comparable to large, state research institutions."
Marietta was selected 507th out of 1,383 in an overall ranking of the Best
Nationwide Colleges, and 21st out of 80 in the state for the Best Ohio Colleges.

Marietta also earned high rankings in highest paid graduates in engineering,
accounting, marketing, management and education.
College Factual's ranking system is based on a series of algorithms that include
information from the Department of Education, nationally mandated data reporting
for institutions and Payscale.com .
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              689 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                           Ledger (Lakeland, Florida)

                          September 14, 2002, Saturday

FSU FALLS FROM TOP 50 LIST OF PUBLIC COLLEGES; UF CAME IN NO. 17 AMONG THE
COUNTRY'S PUBLIC UNIVERSITIES.

BYLINE: JEFF SCULLIN The Ledger

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 856 words


Rankings for Florida schools remained largely unchanged in an annual index of
top colleges released Friday -- with one exception: Florida State University,
which dropped out of the list of top public universities.

Compiled as part of U.S. News & World Report's closely watched "America's Best
Colleges" special issue, due to hit newsstands Monday, the ratings cover more
than 1,400 public and private four-year colleges and universities.

This year, the University of Florida ranked No. 17 among the country's public
universities -- up two notches from last year.

Florida State University, which came in at No. 48 last year, fell out of the Top
50 public universities this year.

FSU officials down-played the significance of the rankings.

"There is no evidence that the actual rankings mean anything," said Lawrence
Abele, the university's provost and executive vice president for academic
affairs. "Our focus is providing our students with the best education possible,
and we hope that parents and students pay attention to performance rather than
arbitrary rankings."

UF officials could not be reached for comment Friday.

For the third consecutive year, Princeton University topped the list of the
nation's top universities.

Harvard University, Yale University, the California Institute of Technology and
Duke University rounded out the top five schools in the "national universities
-- doctoral category," which compares 249 universities that offer bachelor's,
master's and doctoral degrees.

No Florida schools have made the magazine's Top 50 list since 1999, when the
University of Florida was listed as 49th.

U.S. News & World Report listed both UF and FSU in the second tier of national
universities, which means they ranked somewhere between No. 51 and No. 100. The
magazine lists schools in the second, third and fourth tiers alphabetically
rather than by number.

The University of Miami also ranked in the second tier.

The magazine listed the University of South Florida -- with campuses in Tampa,
St. Petersburg, Sarasota and Lakeland -- in the third tier.

The University of Central Florida in Orlando ranked in the fourth tier.

Florida Southern College ranked 11th in the category of southern comprehensive
colleges offering bachelor's degrees -- a drop from last year's No. 9 ranking.

FSC also dropped two places in the best value category among Southern
comprehensive colleges, falling from No. 5 to No. 7.

While acknowledging that the school has benefited from being listed as a good
value in recent years, FSC President Thomas L. Reuschling said he was not sure
that a minor fluctuation in the rankings would have much of an effect.

"It's nice to be mentioned, and it's nice to be mentioned positively," he said.
"But if you try and put too much importance on moving a few places in the
rankings, I don't think you're being realistic.

"Data is great, but, ultimately, (the important thing is) how is the student
progressing?"

Other Florida schools listed as best values include Rollins College in Winter
Park, Stetson University in Deland, the University of Tampa and Florida A&M.

Critics have questioned the measures the magazine uses in compiling its annual
rankings.

Sara Sklaroff, an assistant managing editor with the magazine, said an advisory
board of college presidents and admissions directors and high school counselors
compiles the rankings based on 17 factors. These include peer evaluations, SAT
scores, graduation and retention rates and alumni giving, she said.

Some college officials would prefer to see rankings that better reflect the
overall experience their school provides students. 'Basically, there's no way to
do that at this time,' Sklaroff said.

"What we want to do here is give the consumer more information," she said. "If
they're going to spend $ 30,000 a year on a college education for their kids,
they need as much information as possible."

THE TOP 20 PUBLIC NATIONAL UNIVERSITIES

In its Sept. 16 "America's Best Colleges" issue, U.S. and World Report ranked
the nation's colleges in a variety of ways.

Following are the magazine's top-ranked public national universities.  RANK/
COLLEGE

1. University of California - Berkeley

2. University of Virginia

3. University of California - Los Angeles

3. University of Michigan - Ann Arbor

5. University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill

6. College of William and Mary (Va.)

7. University of California - San Diego

7. University of Wisconsin - Madison

9. Georgia Institute of Technology

9. University of Illinois - Urbana-Champaign

11. University of California - Davis

12. Penn State University - University Park

12. University of California - Irvine

14. University of California - Santa Barbara

14. University of Texas - Austin

14. University of Washington

17. University of Florida

18. University of Georgia

18. University of Maryland - College Park

20. Purdue University - West Lafayette (Ind.)

20. Rutgers - New Brunswick (N.J.)

20. University of Iowa

20. University of Minnesota - Twin Cities

SOURCE: U.S. News and World Report


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PIERRE DUCHARM/The Ledger: Eric Silverman, left, a freshman from Mason,
Ohio, and Mark O'Sullivan, a freshman from Braintree, Mass., are students at
Florida Southern College in Lakeland. The college ranked 11th in the category of
southern comprehensive colleges offering bachelor's degrees in the annual index
of top colleges; The Ledger: Chart.

             Copyright 2002 Lakeland Ledger Publishing Corporation


                              690 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 23, 1999, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY ESPN TOP 25 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL COACHES' POLL

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 28C

LENGTH: 968 words


Poll taken before Monday's games

1. Connecticut (1-0)Points: 980 (30 first-place votes).
Preseason ranking: 1. Result: Beat Iowa 73-45.Next game: Wednesday vs. Kentucky
in Coaches vs. Cancer Challenge
at Hartford.

2. Louisiana Tech (1-1)Points: 945 (2). Preseason ranking:
6. Results: Lost to Mississippi State 74-72 Monday;
beat then-No. 2 Tennessee 69-64 in Tip-Off Classic at Knoxville,
Tenn. Next game: Saturday vs. Southeast Missouri State
at Las Vegas.


3. Georgia (4-0)Points: 891 (2). Preseason ranking:
5. Results: Beat No. 10 UC-Santa Barbara 85-64 Monday
in Preseason NIT final; beat then-No. 21 Boston College 78-70;
beat then-No. 17 Virginia Tech 65-60; beat Alabama-Birmingham
76-75. Next game: Friday vs. Stephen F. Austin at Orono,
Maine.

4. UCLA (1-0)Points: 875 (2). Preseason ranking: 4.
Result: Beat then-No. 8 North Carolina 69-65 in Four in
the Fall Classic at Lubbock, Texas. Next game: Today vs.
Texas.

5. Tennessee (1-1)Points: 856 (1). Preseason ranking:
2. Results: Beat Tennessee-Martin 133-60; lost to then-No.
6 Louisiana Tech 69-64 in Tip-Off Classic. Next game: Friday
at No. 22 Stanford.

6. Notre Dame (1-0)Points: 649. Preseason ranking: 9.
Result: Beat Toledo 68-52. Next game: Saturday at
No. 15 Illinois.

7. Rutgers (0-1)Points: 646. Preseason ranking: 3.
Results: Lost to then-No. 18 North Carolina State 68-55
in Tip-Off Classic at Knoxville, Tenn. Next game: Friday
vs. Northeastern.

8. Penn State (1-0)Points: 639. Preseason ranking: 10.
Result: Beat Villanova 76-54. Next game: Today at
Maryland.

9. North Carolina State (3-0)Points: 589. Preseason
ranking: 18. Results: Beat N.C.-Greensboro 75-58 in
N.C. State tournament final; beat Southern Mississippi 78-43;
beat then-No. 3 Rutgers 68-55 in Tip-Off Classic at Knoxville,
Tenn. Next game: Friday vs. Drake at Cancun, Mexico.

10. UC-Santa Barbara (3-1)Points: 570. Preseason ranking:
13. Results: Lost to No. 3 Georgia 85-64 Monday in
Preseason NIT final; beat then-No. 12 Illinois 71-61; beat Texas
Christian 86-61; beat UNLV 77-56. Next game: Nov. 30 at
No. 23 Arizona.

11. North Carolina (0-1)Points: 562. Preseason ranking:
8. Result: Lost to No. 4 UCLA 69-65 in Four in the
Fall Classic at Lubbock, Texas. Next game: Today vs. East
Carolina.

12. Auburn (1-0)

Points: 546. Preseason ranking: 11. Result: Beat
Jacksonville State 93-54. Next game: Today vs. Middle Tennessee
State.

13. Iowa State (1-1)Points: 508. Preseason ranking:
7. Results: Lost to Stanford 95-82; beat Creighton
77-61. Next game: Today at San Francisco.

14. Oregon (1-0)Points: 381. Preseason ranking: 16.
Result: Beat Western Kentucky 66-59. Next game: Friday
vs. Howard in Oregon tournament.

15. Illinois (3-1)Points: 377. Preseason ranking: 12.
Results: Beat No. 18 Boston College 73-42 Monday for third
place in Preseason NIT; lost to then-No. 13 UC-Santa Barbara 71-61
in Preseason NIT semifinal; beat Oklahoma State 77-62; beat Western
Michigan 112-73. Next game: Wednesday at Duquesne.

16. Old Dominion (1-0)Points: 370. Preseason ranking:
15. Result: Beat Hampton 91-64. Next game: Wednesday
vs. Clemson in Coaches vs. Cancer Challenge at Hartford.

17. Texas Tech (1-0)Points: 298. Preseason ranking:
23. Result: Beat then-No. 14 LSU 56-49 in Four in the
Fall Classic at Lubbock. Next game: Today vs. Rice.

18. Boston College (3-2)

Points: 297. Preseason ranking: 21. Results:
Lost to No. 15 Illinois 73-42 Monday in third-place game of
Preseason NIT; lost to then-No. 5 Georgia 78-70 in Preaseason
NIT semifinal; beat Davidson 86-54; beat then-No. 22 Duke 77-70
in Preseason NIT second round; beat Maine 83-57. Next game:
Saturday at Massachusetts.

19. Purdue (2-0)Points: 266. Preseason ranking: 19.Results: Beat Vanderbilt
63-51; beat Dayton 60-58. Next
game: Today vs. Valparaiso.

20. Virginia Tech (1-1)Points: 249. Preseason ranking:
17. Results: Lost to then-No. 5 Georgia 65-60 in Preseason
NIT; beat Liberty 60-45. Next game: Friday vs. Southern
Utah at Eugene, Ore.

21. Kansas (1-0)Points: 217. Preseason ranking: 20.
Result: Beat Houston 70-56. Next game: Today vs.
Northern Arizona in Great Alaska Shootout at Anchorage.

22. Stanford (2-0)Points: 212. Preseason ranking: Not
ranked. Results: Beat then-No. 7 Iowa State 95-82; beat
San Francisco 75-64. Next game: Friday vs. No. 5 Tennessee.

23. Arizona (3-0)Points: 202. Preseason ranking: 24.
Results: Beat Hawaii 86-73 in Hawaiian Regents Classic;
beat Tennessee Tech 87-71; beat Oklahoma 75-59. Next game:Saturday vs. New
Mexico.

24. LSU (0-1)Points: 189. Preseason ranking: 14.
Results: Lost to then-No. 23 Texas Tech 56-49 in Four in
the Fall Classic at Lubbock, Texas. Next game: Today vs.
North Carolina-Asheville.

25. Duke (1-1)Points: 103. Preseason ranking: 22.
Results: Lost to then-No. 21 Boston College 77-70 in Preseason
NIT second round; beat North Carolina-Greensboro 72-47. Next
game: Wednesday vs. Vanderbilt.

 * Dropped out: No. 25 Virginia (0-1).

 * Others receiving votes: Texas 56; Virginia 54; Wisconsin
50; Southwest Missouri State 47; Florida 45; Marquette 44; Tulane
28; St. Joseph's (Pa.) 27; Nebraska 23; Vanderbilt 22; Michigan
State 18; Xavier 18; Colorado State 16; Kentucky 15; Arkansas
14; Clemson 14; St. Mary's (Calif.) 13; Alabama 12; Louisville
11; Utah 11; Ohio State 9; Arkansas State 8; Florida State 7;
Southern Methodist 4; Iowa 3; Maine 3; Oklahoma 3; Mississippi
State 2; Rice 2; Santa Clara 2; Southern California 2; New Mexico
1; Oral Roberts 1; Portland 1; Stephen F. Austin 1.

The voting panel consists of 40 members of the Women's Basketball
Coaches Association.

For NCAA Div. I women's basketball information, go online at
www.usatoday.com/sports

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              691 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                             June 16, 2016 Thursday

Institutions and ratings

LENGTH: 320  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, June 16 -- The Anna University has released the academic performance
of affiliated colleges, ranking them on pass percentage. Sometime ago the
National Institute Ranking Framework came out with a ranking list for
engineering, arts and science, management and medical colleges and also
universities.


 On an annual basis, very many national and international organisations also
rate institutions.
 But, as far as engineering colleges are concerned, professors requesting that
they be not identified, say the rankings have very little impact on their
admissions.
 An academic says that for parents looking at "good" colleges to enrol their
sons or daughters, the ranking matter little.
 They are least interested in how many research papers college faculty presented
or seminars the colleges had conducted. They are only interested in the
placement opportunities available to their wards at the end of four years.
 In short, placement is the only parameter that matters the most.
 A dean of an engineering institute, on condition of anonymity, says that though
placements are important, for an institution there are other parameters that
matter the most - the size and quality of faculty, their research pursuits,
papers published, papers published by students, and research platform available.

 Though it hardly matters to the public now, in the long run, it will begin to
matter more.
 The academics welcome rating by government and private organisations.
 But, they say that with methodology varying from one organisation to another -
there is no standard available.
 A few rating agencies give more weightage to research than others, a few others
to placements, a few others to infrastructure and students' performance.
 But ratings are always welcome because it tells institutions where they stand
vis-a-vis their peers and where they need to improve.
 That will help the institutions grow the next level.
 Karthik Madhavan

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              692 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education

                             March 10, 2014  Monday

Why President Obama's Rankings Are a Good Place to Start

BYLINE: Kevin Carey

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Opinion & Ideas

LENGTH: 1345  words

ABSTRACT

Their mere existence would be enough to alter institutional reputations and
administrative actions.

FULL TEXT

Part of my job involves traveling around the country talking to people who work
at colleges. Lately, everyone has been asking, with a mix of puzzlement and
exasperation, the same question: "Why on earth is the Obama administration
trying to create a federal college-ranking system?"

The answer, I tell them, is not really about rankings, politics, Secretary of
Education Arne Duncan, or President Obama per se. Rather, the rankings idea is
the latest manifestation of a long-term change in the underlying relationship
between the academy and the state.

In retrospect, the period from the early 1980s until 2001 was a golden age for
American higher education. Because the economy was strong and recessions were
mild, state governments were able to increase real spending per college student,
even as health-care and prison costs exploded, and two million additional
students enrolled in public institutions. Endowments at wealthy institutions
rode the stock market to billions of dollars in gains. Compare a typical wealthy
campus to photographs from 30 years ago, and you'll see a profusion of new
buildings, progress, and beautification.

Students flocked to campus because the labor market was reorganizing itself in a
way that made college degrees essential to getting a good job. The college wage
premium-the difference between typical earnings of college graduates and workers
with only a high-school degree-rose sharply between the early 1980s and 2001.
Economically, college became a better and better deal.

But the last decade has been different. Recovery from the 2001 recession was
weak, and many colleges hadn't yet gotten back above water financially when they
were inundated by the 2008 economic tsunami. The wage premium hit a plateau in
the early 2000s and is no longer growing as it once did.

Meanwhile, a series of numbers and ideas came together to paint a new and
disturbing picture of American higher learning.

First, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development began releasing
an annual report showing that most other industrialized countries were
increasing the percentage of adults with a college degree much faster than was
the United States. At the same time, new federal statistics revealed that
graduation rates in some American colleges were abominably low-less than 30
percent in hundreds of cases.

This might have been explained away as a product of rigorous academic standards,
colleges refusing to grant degrees to people who didn't earn them. But then
other studies arrived that directly contradicted that premise. A 2003 U.S.
Department of Education survey found that many college graduates had only
moderate or low literacy and numeracy skills, and Richard Arum and Josipa
Roksa's much-discussed 2011 book, Academically Adrift, found that "American
higher education is characterized by limited or no learning for a large
proportion of students." A 2013 OECD study found the average literacy levels of
American college graduates below the average literacy level of that cohort in
other nations.

And in nearly every case, the numbers for low-income, minority, and
first-generation students looked even worse. For students at the margins of
opportunity, college looked less like a path to prosperity than a minefield.

One could argue with any of the individual studies on methodological grounds.
But the common themes among them were powerful, particularly given the lack of
competing research reaching substantially different conclusions. Combined with
evidence of grade inflation and declining student academic effort, the studies
and statistics created a powerful narrative of inattention, stagnation, and
decline, of a higher-education system that did not live up to its lofty global
reputation.

This story dovetailed with the other, much louder public narrative of college
unaffordability, driven by record sticker prices and mounting student debt. When
outstanding student loans crossed the $1-trillion threshold, it had a catalytic
effect on the national dialogue, calling the basic college-value proposition
into question and positioning higher education, for the first time, as a
potential enemy of American opportunity.

People get elected to high office by developing a fine sensitivity to such
shifts in the way society understands itself. Spurred by polling numbers and
their own political instincts, federal politicians across the ideological
spectrum felt driven to do something about higher education. But what, exactly,
to do?

Existing federal laws give the executive branch very little direct leverage over
how colleges set prices, award degrees, and educate students. The Washington
higher-education lobby wants to keep it that way and has formidable powers of
dissuasion. A member of Congress proposing new regulations can expect to be
inundated with angry phone calls from local college presidents and alumni, often
before the ink on the offending language has dried.

So U.S. presidents and education secretaries are left to work with the tools
they have. President George W. Bush's secretary of education, Margaret
Spellings, tried to conscript accreditors in carrying out her proposal to
require colleges to disclose-this is still considered an outrage by many-actual
evidence of student learning. The higher-education lobby went to Congress and
neutered the secretary's already-mild oversight over accreditation.

Obama is trying a different tack. Only Congress can make federal financial aid
contingent on a college's place on a federal ranking. But it can't prevent the
Department of Education from simply creating a new ranking and publishing it for
the world to see. As U.S. News & World Report has demonstrated, rankings don't
need formal regulatory authority to be powerful. Their mere existence is enough
to alter institutional reputations, administrative actions, and student choice.

So: President Obama has proposed a new federal college-ranking system because,
like many politicians, he wants to do something meaningful about higher
education, and a new ranking system is one of the small number of things he can
do.

The rankings idea is simply the next in what will be a series of future attempts
by federal lawmakers to herd, persuade, or force the nation's unruly collection
of diverse higher-education institutions toward something resembling a national
higher-education policy. Each new iteration will include two irreducible
elements: a theory of action, be it financial incentives, regulatory
imperatives, or market choice, and a process of gathering information that can
be used to judge the success of institutions or programs in contributing to
national higher-education goals.

Rankings are, in this context, a pretty good place to start. The key for the
Obama administration will be to acknowledge that the best and worst colleges
can't be found at opposite ends of the same rankings scale, and that the kinds
of sanctions that enforce compliance with minimum standards aren't the mirror
image of the rewards that motivate outstanding performance. The best policy will
combine tough-minded baseline expectations for loan repayment, graduation rates,
and employment outcomes with an egalitarian vision of success that rewards
institutions that help an academically and economically diverse student
population get a great education, and a diploma, at a reasonable price.

The broader lesson for the academy is that this is only the beginning. Unless
something happens to change the now-dominant narrative of escalating prices
married to stagnant and subpar educational results, the next administration,
regardless of party, will quickly come to the same conclusions, and act
accordingly.

This can't be fixed with a savvy PR campaign. Colleges can only escape the yoke
of federal control by achieving dramatic and verifiable improvements in the
value of the education they provide to students, in terms of both learning and
price. Otherwise, expect more disconcerting ideas to come, and soon.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Douglas Paulin for The Chronicle
Why President Obama's Rankings Are a Good Place to Start 1

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved


                              693 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                           January 8, 2014 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

HIGHER EDUCATION;
Georgia online grad programs rank high

BYLINE: Janel Davis; Staff

SECTION: METRO NEWS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 241 words



HIGHLIGHT: U.S. News list rates colleges, both graduate and undergraduate.


Online graduate programs at Georgia colleges and universities ranked high on
lists compiled by U.S. News & World Report and released today.

The magazine separated its undergraduate and graduate rankings. Graduate
rankings were further separated by program type, including business, computer
information technology, education, engineering and nursing. Hundreds of
institutions were included in each program listing.

Among the online graduate programs, the University of West Georgia's Richards
College of Business --- ranked fourth and tied with the University of Texas at
Dallas --- received the highest ranking among national public and private
colleges for its business program.

Marietta's Southern Polytechnic State University, ranked eighth, was the
highest-ranked Georgia institution for its computer information technology
program. The University of Georgia's education program got the highest state
ranking at 22nd. The University of West Georgia also got Georgia's highest
ranking, at 48th, for its nursing program.

For undergraduate online programs, Savannah College of Art and Design, ranked
25th, was the highest-ranked Georgia school. The University of West Georgia,
tied for 69th, was the next highest-ranked Georgia undergraduate program.

The magazine used reputation, student engagement, faculty credentials and
training, student services and technology and other factors to determine the
lists. The rankings can be found at www.usnews.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2014 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              694 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                            September 2, 2011 Friday
                                 METRO EDITION

CAMPUS CONNECT

BYLINE: JENNA ROSS; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 108 words



HIGHLIGHT: Who ranks among the 'least rigorous' colleges in nation?


Local colleges and universities have topped a handful of less-than-scientific
college rankings lately. Here's a roundup:

Macalester College led the list of "colleges with the most liberal students," or
so says a Princeton Review list published by the Huffington Post.

Macalester College is also No. 7 among the most friendly campuses for lesbian,
gay, bisexual and transgender students, according to another Princeton Review
ranking.

The University of Minnesota and Gustavus Adolphus College were among the top 20
"least rigorous" schools listed by the Daily Beast. (Its methodology? Don't
ask.)

St. Olaf College topped another Daily Beast list: best food.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              695 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 26, 2016 Wednesday

Stony Brook Recognized For Academic Excellence By 3 Top-Tier Publications

LENGTH: 400  words

DATELINE: New York



 New York: State University of New York at Stony Brook has issued the following
news release:



  Stony Brook University has been recognized in three recent college rankings
for its academic excellence: the new Washington Post composite ranking , ranks
the University #69 nationally and #35 among public institutions; the US News &
World Report Best Global Universities ranking, ranks Stony Brook as #131
worldwide; and the Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education College Ranking ,
places Stony Brook at #30 among public universities.





     Using a composite of six prominent higher education rankings, the
Washington Post found that Stony Brook ranks 69th among national universities
(#35 among publics). The six publications included are: US News & World Report ,
Washington Monthly, WSJ/Times Higher Education US rankings, Times Higher
Education Global Rankings , Money and Forbes . The new ranking seeks to include
several factors most important to incoming students, including selectivity,
research prowess, strong academics, social mobility, affordability and
post-graduation outcomes.



     The US News & World Report rankings, based on schools' academic research
and reputation,  encompasses the top 1,000 institutions spread across 65
countries and is intended to allow students to compare universities around the
world. The list reflects a focus specifically on schools' academic research and
reputation overall.



     The WSJ/Times Higher Education ranking is based on four broad "pillars"
that focus primarily on what the institutions offer students: resources,
outcomes, environment and quality of interactions between students and
faculty/staff.  Stony Brook ranked particularly strong in the area of
environment, which includes proportion of international students, as well as
staff and student diversity.



 Stony Brook also ranked  #32 out of 484 four-year public institutions by The
Business Journals ; and ranked #42 among top four-year public colleges and
universities in the U.S. News & World Report " Top Public Schools Rankings " for
2015. It has also been named as one of the best value universities by The
Princeton Review and named the 35th best value in public colleges for in-state
students (29th for out-of-state students) by Kiplinger's Personal Finance .



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              696 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                          September 14, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

College rankings show Volusia's strength

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 478  words


The latest U.S. News & World Report rankings of America's four- year colleges
should be a source of pride for Volusia County and the surrounding area.

The magazine's annual rankings, one of the more high-profile efforts at ranking
four-year colleges, placed Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University's main campus in
Daytona Beach as the No. 1 aerospace-aeronautical-astronautical school in the
nation, and the 11th best regional university in the South.

Stetson University was ranked as the third best regional university in the
South, and fourth in the category of "Great Schools, Great Prices."

Bethune-Cookman University came in at No. 34 in "Best Black Colleges." That's in
the top half. U.S. News noted that the average freshman retention rate and the
graduation rate at B-CU both improved by one point. The historically black
college tied for 52nd in "Best Regional Colleges" in the South too.

Daytona State College was not ranked because most of its programs offer two-year
degrees. But one day it is likely that fast-growing DSC -- which offers some
bachelor's and master's degrees -- will make its mark nationally along with
Stetson, B-CU and Embry-Riddle.

Volusia County truly is fortunate to have four fine colleges based in the
county.

The colleges bring more than just textbooks and rankings. Embry- Riddle plans a
90-acre Research and Technology Park and continues its work on NextGen, an
improved air-traffic control technology. The park and NextGen could create
important career opportunities for ERAU graduates and graduates of the other
local schools.

In DeLand, Stetson has proved to be an economic engine for the city's thriving
downtown. Daytona State, in addition to providing many jobs for local residents,
helps train workers in local high- tech businesses.

These institutions of higher education not only bring in revenue and new
residents, they produce a steady flow of educated workers. Educated workers
boost local economies -- many become entrepreneurs, engineers and innovators in
various fields.

A key challenge for Volusia and Flagler counties is keeping these talented
graduates in the region. The area needs more employers who create the kind of
jobs college and university graduates are looking for.

It's important to note that Daytona State and B-CU also readily take up the
challenge of offering a college education to many students who are the first in
their family to go to college to get a bachelor's degree or an associate's
degree. The importance of that first step is often overlooked. It can be tough
for students to take this first step; many of them have to work through college.
These first-generation college graduates also will help build the region's
economy.

The U.S. News rankings are a reminder of the importance of our local colleges.
We can count on those fine schools to continue playing a major role in shaping
the area's future.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


                              697 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                           December 29, 2012 Saturday

Best deals in college are down the road

BYLINE: GABRIELLE RUSSON

SECTION: B; ARCHIVES; Pg. BNV01

LENGTH: 261 words


RANKINGS: New College and University of Florida are listed among Top 10

New College of Florida and the University of Florida have been rated among the
Top 10 best deals in public colleges by Kiplinger's Personal Finance magazine.

UF was ranked No. 3 and Sarasota-based New College was No. 7 in the magazine's
annual rankings.

The rankings are determined by SAT or ACT scores, admission and retention rates,
student-faculty ratios, and four- and six-year graduation rates.

The magazine editors then narrow down the top schools based upon cost and
financial aid, according to a news release sent out by New College.

"The institutions in the top ten range from small colleges to immense flagship
universities and span the entire nation, but they have one thing in common: They
all deliver the most academic bang for your buck," Kiplinger's staff writer
Susannah Snider wrote.

Also making the Top 5 were the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
ranked No. 1, University of Virginia, College of William and Mary and University
of Maryland at College Park.

This is not the first time Sarasota's New College has appeared in the rankings.

BEST COLLEGE DEALS

Kiplinger's best values

in public colleges

1. University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

2. University of Virginia

3. University of Florida

4. College of William and Mary

5. University of Maryland,College Park

6. University of California,Los Angles

7. New College of Florida

8. University of California, Berkeley

9. SUNY Geneseo

10. University of California, San Diego

It was rated No. 5 in 2012 and No. 11 in 2011, the college said.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              698 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 10, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY Top 25 coaches' poll;
College football

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 721 words


Times p.m. Eastern

1. Alabama (10-0)

Points: 1,508 (44 first-place votes). Previous ranking:1. This week: Saturday
vs. Mississippi State (ESPN, 7:45). Last week: Beat then-No.15 LSU 27-21 OT.

2. Texas Tech (10-0)

Points: 1,469 (17). Previous ranking: 3. Next game: Nov.22 at No.4 Oklahoma.
Last week: Beat then-No.8 Oklahoma State 56-20.

3. Florida (8-1)

Points: 1,348. Previous ranking: 5. This week: Saturday vs. No.23 South Carolina
(CBS, 3:30). Last week: Beat Vanderbilt 42-14.

4. Oklahoma (9-1)

Points: 1,314. Previous ranking: 4. Next game: Nov.22 vs. No.2 Texas Tech. Last
week: Beat Texas A&M 66-28.

5. Texas (9-1)

Points: 1,300. Previous ranking: 7. This week: Saturday at Kansas (FSN, 12:30).
Last week: Beat Baylor45-21.

6. Southern California (8-1)

Points: 1,268. Previous ranking: 6. This week: Saturday at Stanford (Versus, 7).
Last week: Beat then-No.22 California 17-3.

7. Utah (10-0)

Points: 1,104. Previous ranking: 9. This week: Saturday at San Diego State. Last
week: Beat then-No.11 TCU 13-10.

8. Penn State (9-1)

Points: 1,074. Previous ranking: 2. This week: Saturday vs. Indiana. Last week:
Lost to Iowa 24-23.

9. Boise State (9-0)

Points: 1,028. Previous ranking: 10. This week: Saturday at Idaho. Last week:
Beat Utah State 49-14.

10. Ohio State (8-2)

Points: 936. Previous ranking: 12. This week: Saturday at Illinois (ESPN, noon).
Last week: Beat then-No.25 Northwestern 45-10.

11. Missouri (8-2)

Points: 883. Previous ranking: 13. This week: Saturday at Iowa State (FSN,
6:30). Last week: Beat Kansas State 41-24.

12. Georgia (8-2)

Points: 842. Previous ranking: 14. This week: Saturday at Auburn. Last week:
Beat Kentucky 42-38.

13. Oklahoma State (8-2)

Points: 808. Previous ranking: 8. This week: Saturday at Colorado (ABC, 8). Last
week: Lost to then-No.3 Texas Tech 56-20.

14. Brigham Young (9-1)

Points: 679. Previous ranking: 16. This week: Saturday at Air Force (CBS College
Sports, 3:30). Last week: Beat San Diego State 41-12.

15. Michigan State (9-2)

Points: 660. Previous ranking: 17. Next game: Nov.22 at No.8 Penn State. Last
week: Beat Purdue 21-7.

16. Ball State (9-0)

Points: 590. Previous ranking: 18. This week: Tuesday at Miami (Ohio) (ESPN2,
7). Last week: Beat NorthernIllinois 45-14.

17. North Carolina (7-2)

Points: 543. Previous ranking: 19. This week: Saturday at Maryland (ABC, 3:30).
Last week: Beat then-No.20 Georgia Tech 28-7.

18. TCU (9-2)

Points: 475. Previous ranking: 11. Next game: Nov.22 vs. Air Force (Versus,
3:30). Last week: Lost to then-No.9 Utah 13-10.

19. Florida State (7-2)

Points: 426. Previous ranking: 24. This week: Saturday vs. Boston College (ABC,
8). Last week: BeatClemson 41-27.

20. LSU (6-3)

Points: 409. Previous ranking: 15. This week: Saturday vs. Troy. Last week: Lost
to No.1 Alabama 27-21 OT.

21. Pittsburgh (7-2)

Points: 311. Previous ranking: Not ranked. Next game: Nov.22 at No.22
Cincinnati. Last week: BeatLouisville 41-7.

22. Cincinnati (7-2)

Points: 183. Previous ranking: Not ranked. This week: Friday at Louisville
(ESPN2, 8). Last week: Beat then-No.23 West Virginia 26-23 OT.

23. South Carolina (7-3)

Points: 155. Previous ranking: Not ranked. This week: Saturday at No.3 Florida
(CBS, 3:30). Last week: BeatArkansas 34-21.

24. Tulsa (8-1)

Points: 144. Previous ranking: Not ranked. This week: Saturday at Houston (CBS
College Sports, 8). Last week: Idle.

25. Oregon State

(6-3)

Points: 71. Previous ranking: Not ranked. This week: Saturday vs. California
(ABC, 3:30). Last week: Beat UCLA 34-6.

Dropped out: No.20 Georgia Tech (7-3, lost to then-No.19 North Carolina 28-7);
No.21 Maryland (6-3, lost to Virginia Tech 23-13); No.22 California (6-3, lost
to No.6 Southern California 17-3); No.23 West Virginia (6-3, lost to
then-unranked Cincinnati 26-23 OT); No.25 Northwestern (7-3, lost to then-No.12
Ohio State 45-10).

Others receiving votes: California (6-3) 50; Oregon (7-3) 49; Georgia Tech (7-3)
38; Virginia Tech (6-3) 34; Air Force (8-2) 25; Northwestern (7-3) 13; Wake
Forest (6-3) 13; Arizona (6-3) 11; Kansas (6-4) 11; Maryland (6-3) 9;
Connecticut (6-3) 8; Minnesota (7-3) 8; Boston College (6-3) 7; Iowa (6-4) 6;
Miami (Fla.) (6-3) 5; West Virginia (6-3) 5; Western Michigan (8-2) 5.

The USA TODAY Board of Coaches is made up of 61 head coaches at Football Bowl
Subdivision (Division I-A) institutions. All are members of the American
Football Coaches Association.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              699 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                               The Straits Times

RJC again tops junior college rankings in fierce contest

                                December 5, 1993

Ng Wei Joo


RAFFLES Junior College (RJC) has again emerged tops among the 14 JCs in
Singapore, in terms of the 1992 A-level examination results.

But competition for the first five places was fierce, with only thin margins
separating them.

A ranking of JCs by The Sunday Times shows that RJC was followed by Victoria
(VJC). In joint third place were National (NJC) and Temasek (TJC), while Hwa
Chong (HCJC) was fifth.

The rankings are revealed in Which JC?, a guide to JCs, which comes with The
Sunday Times today.

The 20-page guide ranks and profiles colleges to help O-level school leavers
decide which JC is best for them.

The colleges were ranked according to two criteria: percentage of students who
scored three A-level passes in last year's examinations, and the JC's A-level
score, which shows the quality of the grades they obtained. Both factors carry
equal weight.

Apart from the overall ranking, separate tables were produced for the Science,
Arts and Commerce streams. The data was provided by the Ministry of Education.

In terms of the percentage who scored three A-level passes, only two points
separate RJC from HCJC; and in terms of their A-level scores, only 0.4 point.

RJC also managed to improve on its 1991 A-level performance on nearly every
count -- percentage with three A-level passes, A-level score and the percentage
of students scoring A and B grades. But its General Paper pass rate dipped -from
100 to 99 per cent.

It tops not just the overall ranking but the ranking for the Science and
Arts/Commerce streams.

But what really distanced it from the other four top colleges was the percentage
of students who scored A and B grades.

About 82 per cent did so last year, compared with 72 per cent in VJC, 71 per
cent in NJC, 69 per cent in TJC and 68 per cent in HCJC.

Anderson JC in Ang Mo Kio retained its title of top "neighbourhood college",
with improvements in all areas except the percentage of General Paper passes,
which dipped from 94 to 93 per cent.

Nanyang JC made the most noteworthy improvement in ranking -from 11 last year to
seven this year. However, it generally did not improve on the past year's
performance.

Apart from ranking the colleges, Which JC? examined whether each JC had added
value. This was done by comparing the entry scores of students who entered the
JC in 1990, and their grades at the 1992 A-level examination.

Colleges which helped average students to produce better than expected results
were said to have added value.

For the 1992 A-levels, these included HCJC, Anglo-Chinese, Tampines and St
Andrew's.

This year, the colleges have also come together to produce a 12-page booklet
giving an overview of the JC system and information such as the subject
combinations in the various JCs.

Secondary school pupils can get it from their schools this week, before they
apply next week to enter JCs.

CJC's principal Sister Deirdre O'Loan, who chairs the conference of JC
principals, said the booklet aims to inform students and help them make the
right choices.


SECTION: News Focus; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 960 words

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Not for A's alone: At Temasek JC, joint third with National JC,
students give free tuition to disadvantaged children in Bedok South.

                 Copyright 1993 The Straits Times Press Limited


                              700 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                            February 5, 2007 Monday

BCS rankings not best for college football

BYLINE: JAMES KRIZ T.C. COLEMAN

SECTION: TEEN PULSE; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 527  words


It's the dream of every college football player to play for and win a national
championship one day. The problem with this, however, is the way the Bowl
Championship Series (BCS) rankings work, most teams will never be quite "good
enough" to achieve that goal. Even teams that deserve to compete in a national
championship will never be worthy with the current BCS system.

Consider this hypothetical situation. An incredibly hardworking college football
team made up of mostly seniors, which just so happens to come up a bit short in
the talent department, starts the season in complete anonymity. The players do
every little thing possible, short of cheating, to win. They put their blood,
sweat and tears into every game they play on their schedule, which includes a
number of highly ranked teams.

By the end of the season, they have fought their way into the #3 spot in the BCS
rankings. But they won't get to play for a national championship because the top
two teams, who just happened to start the season with a high ranking, were able
to defend their BCS rankings by having a number of weak opponents on their
schedule.

The question in people's minds is "Is that fair?" The answer is fairly obvious.
To fully understand the flaws of the BCS ranking system, one must look at the
rules it follows and how it works. Teams are ranked upon record and strength of
schedule. For the college footfootball seasons of 2007 through 2010, the final
top two teams in BCS standings play in the National Championship Game. The teams
who do not qualify for the National Championship Game but are in the top 10
rankings are placed in certain bowl games: Rose Bowl, Fiesta Bowl, Sugar Bowl
and Orange Bowl. All of the champions of the SEC, Big East, ACC, Big 12,
Pacific-Ten and Big Ten have automatic berths in bowls following the 2007
season.

This postseason arrangement of bowl games makes it so very few upsets are
possible and there are no true underdogs going into a game For exampls, an 8th
BCS-ranked team competing against the 1st BCS-ranked team. That is a scenario
that the college football postseason could never have.

Many people in favor of the BCS rankings argue that the playoff scenario at the
college level would be too confusing. The thing that most of those people tend
to forget is that there are playoffs at the Division-I AA level, and that works
out just fine. Jamie Cook, athletic director at Indian Creek Upper School and
former Division-I football player at Brigham Young University, shared his
thoughts on the matter.

"It's all about the money," he said.

Mr. Cook made a strong argument that while the playoff system would be better
for fans and players, the bowl system financially benefits the corporations and
schools involved.

A top 10 postseason playoff scenario at the Division-I level would weaken the
power of the BCS ranking system and put more power in the hands of the players
and coaches on the field to determine which college team is truly the best in
the country. Having college football playoffs would bring a whole new level of
excitement to the postseason, similar to that of NCAA basketball's March
Madness, and the NFL or NHL playoffs.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2007 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              701 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             October 5, 2015 Monday

College football rankings: Florida moves to No. 2

BYLINE: Berry Tramel

SECTION:

LENGTH: 343 words


[img width="" height="" style="" render="w620"]3861012[/img]Monday morning, so
it's time to again rank college football's top 10. And we're inching closer to
the end of October, when the College Football Playoff committee will begin its
own weekly rankings and give us some insight into which four teams will make the
2015 semifinals.Remember, these rankings are not about projections or the eye
test. These rankings are about resume', and hopefully the committee's rankings
will be the same. Rank teams based on what they've done, not what we think they
will do. Resume's can change from week to week, so teams don't naturally just
stay in the same order if both win. Or lose.Let's get to this week's list:

Utah: The Utes were idle last weekend, but those victories over Michigan and
Oregon, the latter on the road, still trump any other team's two best
results.Florida: Wow. From where did that come? The Gators barely won at
Kentucky, then barely won at home against Tennessee, then smoked Ole Miss. Hard
to rank Florida below Ole Miss, and hard to rank Ole Miss below Alabama, and
hard to rank Bama low at all. So UF goes high, for now.Ole Miss: Hard to imagine
the team that thumped Bama in Tuscaloosa would be a no-show in Gainesville. But
that win in Tuscaloosa did happen.Alabama: Ouch; 38-10 win at Georgia.. Somebody
made Alabama mad. I assume it was Mississippi.Clemson: Nice win over Notre Dame,
but it's going to be tough for the Tigers to stay high. The ACC schedule is
mostly void of tough tests, and South Carolina isn't much this
year.Northwestern: Two good wins already - Stanford and Duke - and now the
Wildcats get Michigan.Stanford: That win over Southern Cal is looking better and
better.Michigan State: That win over Oregon is looking worse and worse, but it's
enough to keep the Spartans in the top 10, for now.Southern Cal: Lots of
competitive teams in the Pac-12 South. A chance to build a resume'.TCU: Going to
be hard for a Big 12 team to get very high until late in the season, since most
of the marquee matchups come in November.


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2015 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              702 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             October 5, 2015 Monday

College football rankings: Florida moves to No. 2

BYLINE: Berry Tramel

SECTION:

LENGTH: 343 words


[img width="" height="" style="" render="w620"]3861012[/img]Monday morning, so
it's time to again rank college football's top 10. And we're inching closer to
the end of October, when the College Football Playoff committee will begin its
own weekly rankings and give us some insight into which four teams will make the
2015 semifinals.Remember, these rankings are not about projections or the eye
test. These rankings are about resume', and hopefully the committee's rankings
will be the same. Rank teams based on what they've done, not what we think they
will do. Resume's can change from week to week, so teams don't naturally just
stay in the same order if both win. Or lose.Let's get to this week's list:

Utah: The Utes were idle last weekend, but those victories over Michigan and
Oregon, the latter on the road, still trump any other team's two best
results.Florida: Wow. From where did that come? The Gators barely won at
Kentucky, then barely won at home against Tennessee, then smoked Ole Miss. Hard
to rank Florida below Ole Miss, and hard to rank Ole Miss below Alabama, and
hard to rank Bama low at all. So UF goes high, for now.Ole Miss: Hard to imagine
the team that thumped Bama in Tuscaloosa would be a no-show in Gainesville. But
that win in Tuscaloosa did happen.Alabama: Ouch; 38-10 win at Georgia.. Somebody
made Alabama mad. I assume it was Mississippi.Clemson: Nice win over Notre Dame,
but it's going to be tough for the Tigers to stay high. The ACC schedule is
mostly void of tough tests, and South Carolina isn't much this
year.Northwestern: Two good wins already - Stanford and Duke - and now the
Wildcats get Michigan.Stanford: That win over Southern Cal is looking better and
better.Michigan State: That win over Oregon is looking worse and worse, but it's
enough to keep the Spartans in the top 10, for now.Southern Cal: Lots of
competitive teams in the Pac-12 South. A chance to build a resume'.TCU: Going to
be hard for a Big 12 team to get very high until late in the season, since most
of the marquee matchups come in November.


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2015 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              703 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  Bar & Bench

                           July 11, 2011 8:31 AM EST

India Today Rankings Out - Statistics raise concerns: NALSAR -1, NLSIU - 2,
NLIU-Bhopal 3, DU Law Faculty -4, Symbiosis-5, WBNUJS - 6...

LENGTH: 643  words


India today has ranked NALSAR as the best law school in the country followed by
NLSIU, Bangalore and NLIU, Bhopal.  According to the India Today website, the
magazine partnered with The Nielsen Company and conducted the survey to
determine the best undergraduate colleges in India in six disciplines namely
Arts, Science, Commerce, Engineering, Medical and Law.

India today has ranked NALSAR as the best law school in the country followed by
NLSIU, Bangalore and NLIU, Bhopal.

According to the India Today website, the magazine partnered with The Nielsen
Company and conducted the survey to determine the best undergraduate colleges in
India in six disciplines namely Arts, Science, Commerce, Engineering, Medical
and Law.

Few months back they conducted an online poll to rank colleges. But this doesn't
find a mention in the explanation (http://indiatoday.intoday.in/site/story/best-
colleges-in-india-2011-methodology/1/143628.html) of ranking system.

Step two of the ranking system is explained as "The experts were asked to
distribute 100 points amongst five parameters- Reputation of Colleges, Quality
of Academic Input, Student Care, Infrastructure and Job Prospects. Hence,
weightage of each of these parameters was derived."

The experts were asked to rate according to their perception. The perception of
the experts might not be the actual scenario. For eg: Job Prospects of a college
can be evaluated only after studying the placement pattern of the students, how
can this be perceived by an expert without any statistical study?

Another concern with the methodology is; For the parameter wise rankings
National Law University, Jodpur was ranked 8 in placements and Symbiosis Law
School was ranked 6. Bar & Bench has earlier covered placements of both NLUJ
(http://www.barandbench.com/../brief/2/1543/recruitment-tracker-nlu-jodhpur-mass
ive-hiring-by-luthra-12-to-13-lakh-pay-package-for-freshers-only-9-opt-for-litig
ation) and Symbiosis
(http://www.barandbench.com/../brief/2/1517/recruitment-tracker-symbiosis-law-sc
hools-placements-conclude-30-join-lpos-icici-and-legasis-top-recruiters).  These
reports indicate NLUJ has 84.84% placements and Symbiosis has 41.1 % placements.
This is very much enough to indicate the ranking is flawed. The difference
between the placements is almost double.

Also NLSIU was ranked 1 in placements, NUJS ranked 4 and NALSAR was ranked 2.
Interestingly NLIU Bhopal was ranked 3. Bar & Bench has earlier reported that
NLSIU
(http://www.barandbench.com/../brief/2/1515/recruitment-tracker-nlsiu-raps-up-wi
th-a-100-), NALSAR
(http://www.barandbench.com/../brief/2/1409/recruitment-tracker-nalsar-witnesses
-100-per-cent-recruitment-this-year) and NUJS
(http://www.barandbench.com/../brief/2/1539/recruitment-tracker-nujs-places-cent
-percent-students-amarchand-top-recruiter-conversation-with-campus-recruitment-c
ommittee-member) have got cent percent placements after the analysis of
recruitment data received from the colleges. So differential ranking of these
colleges in placements factor also seems to be flawed.

Another concern with the methodology is for the parameter wise rankings; Christ
College of Law, GLC, Mumbai and Bharati Vidyapeeth's New Law College, Pune; for
these three colleges, India Today has not given parameter rankings and has
ranked them 15, 16 and 17 respectively. Also for Faculty of Law, the ICFAI
University (ICFAI Law School),Dehradun, Faculty of Law, University of Lucknow
and Faculty of Law, University of Allahabad, Allahabad  India Today has not
given parameter rankings and has been ranked 19,22 and 25 respectively.

Earlier Bar & Bench has reported that "The Week" magazine has come out with
rankings (http://www.barandbench.com/../brief/2/1544/another-ranking
-with-no-indication-of-methodology-week-magazine-says-nls-1-nuals-2-nalsar-3nujs
-13-nluj-25) with no indication as to methodology.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


             Copyright 2011 Bar & Bench, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              704 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            August 12, 2006 Saturday

Survey grades colleges on public service.;
Bryn Mawr, Penn State get high marks in civics

BYLINE: Patrick Kerkstra, Inquirer Staff Writer

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 874 words


Nobody would argue that Bryn Mawr College and Pennsylvania State University are
both highly regarded schools with strong academic traditions. But better than
Harvard, than Penn, than Swarthmore?

Apparently so, if the oft-asked question "What are the nation's best colleges?"
is tweaked into "What colleges are best for the nation?"

At least that's the conclusion of the editors of Washington Monthly, who this
week released their second annual guide to the nation's higher-education
institutions, ranking them not on academic excellence but on their contributions
to research, public service and social mobility.

By those standards, the editors found, Bryn Mawr College - which tied for 21st
in the most recent U.S. News and World Report ranking - is the nation's best
liberal-arts school. And Penn State, considered by U.S. News to be the 48th-best
major university, is the nation's No. 3 school.

Most traditional rankings rely heavily on factors such as student grades and SAT
scores, a school's resources, and alumni giving: all measures that strongly
favor elite private institutions such as Princeton and Harvard.

But Washington Monthly's conclusions are based on different standards, including
ROTC and Peace Corps participation, graduation rates among lower-income
students, and research spending.

"This guide asks not what colleges can do for you, but what colleges are doing
for the country," the magazine's editors wrote in their September issue.

They acknowledge that their rankings don't have the sway that the U.S. News
lists do, but for certain kinds of students they can be influential.

It's a system that puts public universities on a pedestal and makes the Ivy
League appear almost mediocre. Public institutions rarely crack the U.S. News
top 20.

That has long irritated leaders of such schools, particularly given the
undeniable influence of the U.S. News rankings on many students and parents.

"There is a heavy weighting on measures of wealth," Penn State president Graham
Spanier wrote yesterday in an e-mail response to questions. "This accounts in
part for why only one or two of the nation's most distinguished public
universities have ever made it into the top 25."

Like other college presidents, Spanier cautioned against using any single
ranking as "a basis for choosing a university," but he said the Washington
Monthly approach was a "worthy reflection of a different set of criteria that
will have meaning to many prospective students and their families."

Ashley Fleming, a college admissions consultant, agreed, saying students
interested in public service would find the Washington Monthly ranking valuable
because it would provide an assessment of schools that share their values.

Fleming, who works for AdmissionsConsultants Inc. of Vienna, Va., said that
students and parents were relying less on the U.S. News ranking than they had in
the past. "They are getting wise to the PR machine that is the U.S. News ranking
."

Another common complaint about U.S. News-style rankings among higher-education
officials is their perceived vulnerability to manipulation. For instance, a
school could enroll a small but selective freshman class to impress U.S. News,
then enroll many transfer students for the tuition dollars.

"What's gratifying for us about the Washington Monthly ranking is we got it
based on who we really are and not by trying to manipulate the data to get up
the list," said Jennifer Rickard, Bryn Mawr's dean of admissions and financial
aid.

Bryn Mawr performed well on all the Washington Monthly indicators: the high
numbers of lower-income students who enroll and succeed at the school, and the
number of its graduates who go on to earn a doctorate or join the Peace Corps.
The school ranked in the monthly's top five last year.

"Bryn Mawr is more about transforming than polishing," Rickard said. "When you
talk about social mobility, that's what we see here. Students who may never have
even thought about getting a Ph.D. come to Bryn Mawr and end up pursuing one."

Another local school that performed well by Washington Monthly's standards was
Widener University in Chester. The private university is well-regarded locally,
but it doesn't make U.S. News' list of the nation's top 120 schools. Washington
Monthly rated it 52d overall - 12 spots better than New York University - based
in part on its success in graduating larger-than-normal numbers of lower-income
students.

"If we as a university wanted to improve our rankings in some of these reports,
one of the easiest ways to do it is to eliminate the bottom 10 or 20 percent of
your incoming students," said Widener University president James T. Harris III.

The bottom cohort of most classes is composed of lower-income students, who
historically have lower graduation rates than wealthier students.

"If universities are being judged as successful based on the number of students
who graduate, there's no incentive to take risks on lower-income students,"
Harris said.

Widener has tried to resist those pressures, Harris said.

"The Washington Monthly rankings are a reaffirmation of our mission," he said.

View the complete list of school rankings via http://go.philly.com/schoolrank

Contact staff writer Patrick Kerkstra at 610-313-8111 or
pkerkstra@phillynews.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              705 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              accountingtoday.com

                                August 25, 2016

Public Accounting Report's 35th Annual Professors Survey reveals top undergrad,
grad program rankings for 2016

BYLINE: Sean McCabe

SECTION: POSTS; Pg. 1 Vol. 1 No. 1

LENGTH: 436  words


The Public Accounting Report, the monthly independent newsletter serving the
accounting profession since 1978, released the results of their 35th Annual
Professors Survey this August, in which accounting professors across U.S.
colleges and universities rank collegiate accounting programs.

This year, three constant heavyweights-the University of Texas, University of
Illinois and Brigham Young University-remained on top of undergrad and graduate
rankings, with BYU overtaking Illinois in the master's rankings at #2.

New programs to the undergrad rankings since 2015 include Boston College,
College of William & Mary, DePaul University, Lehigh University, Mississippi
State University, University of Arkansas, University of Kentucky, University of
Nebraska, University of Oklahoma and University of South Carolina.

For graduate rankings, Case Western Reserve University, Mississippi State
University, University of Kentucky, University of Minnesota, University of
Nebraska, University of Pittsburgh and Utah State University all made first
appearances on this year's ranking.

The top 10 rankings from the 35th Annual Professors Survey are as follows:

Undergraduate Rankings:

1. University of Texas 2. University of Illinois 3. Brigham Young University 4.
University of Notre Dame 5. Texas A&M University 6. Indiana University 7.
University of Mississippi 8. University of Alabama 9. University of Southern
California 10. University of Florida

Master's Rankings:

1. University of Texas 2. Brigham Young University 3. University of Illinois 4.
University of Notre Dame 5. University of Michigan 6. University of Southern
California 7. Indiana University 8. University of Mississippi 9. University of
Alabama 10. University of Georgia

Doctoral Programs:

1. University of Texas 2. Stanford University 3. University of Illinois 4.
University of Chicago 5. University of Michigan 6. University of Pennsylvania 7.
University of Mississippi 8. University of Alabama 9. Texas A&M University 10.
University of North Carolina

Interested accounting departments looking to participate in the Survey should
send a list of eligible accounting faculty members to
Julie.Lindy@wolterskluwer.com between Feb. 1 and Feb. 15 annually. Lists should
be in Excel format, with one column for name, one column for title and one
column for email address for each eligible faculty member.

For more on the Public Accounting Report and the full 35th Annual Professors
Survey, head to Wolters Kluwer's site here. The PAR is also available on CCH
IntelliConnect and the CCH Accounting Research Manager. Single issues can be
purchased on the iOS App Store here.



URL: http://www.accountingtoday.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBCPA_BLOG


                        Copyright 2016 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              706 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald-Tribune (Florida)

                            October 15, 2007 Monday
                                  ALL EDITION

Bullish ranking;
USF places second in the Bowl Championship Series standings after No. 1 Ohio
State

BYLINE: By ALAN DELL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 642 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


If the college football regular season ended on Sunday, USF would be playing for
the national championship.

READ IT AGAIN:

That is USF, as in the University of South Florida, and national championship,
as in Bowl Championship Series standings, which determine the two teams that
play for the title on Jan. 7 in New Orleans.

The first BCS standings of the season were released Sunday and USF was ranked
second behind Ohio State. If the scenario holds, it would pit the Bulls against
the Big Ten Conference Buckeyes.

While the 11-year-old USF football program has not been able to totally win over
the coaches who participate in the voting, the computers that make up a third of
the BCS rankings love the Bulls.

Five of the six computer rankings used in the BCS have USF the No. 1 team in the
country. Ohio State, which didn't make the top six in three of the computers,
gets the top BCS ranking because of the human vote.

The Buckeyes were No. 1 in the USA/Today coaches poll and in the Harris Poll,
which is comprised of former players, coaches, administrators and current and
former members of the media. Boston College was second in those two polls and
USF was third.

The Bulls (6-0) were ranked second in the Associated Press writers poll with
Ohio State first and Boston College third. The AP poll is not part of the BCS
rankings, which utilize the average of the computer rankings, coaches poll and
Harris rankings, each counting for one third.

USF coach Jim Leavitt, who has steadfastly refused to comment on the rankings,
made it clear after the Bulls' win over Central Florida on Saturday, that he
would not change.

"I am not going to talk much about it, and I won't return phone calls about it,"
Leavitt said after the game. "I don't think those things are bad. They are nice,
but I can't do anything about it. Nothing I say will change any of it."

Leavitt was more concerned about the Bulls' next game on Thursday night against
Big East Conference rival Rutgers, which will be televised nationally on ESPN.

USF also got a boost of credibility from CBSSports.Com in its
strength-of-schedule rankings that were released on Sunday. CBS rates the Bulls'
schedule as the ninth-toughest in the country. It has Ohio State with the
57th-toughest schedule and Boston College with the 72nd out of 120.

Apparently CBS and the computers took into account USF's victories at Auburn and
home against West Virginia, which is ninth in the BCS rankings. Auburn (5-2) is
the highest-ranked two-loss team in the BCS, listed at 17th.

ESPN analyst Mark May said he had USF No. 1 because of what he called "its body
of work." His television partners are Kirk Herbstreit and Lee Corso. Herbstreit
had USF fifth while Corso did not rank the Bulls in his top five.

Following their coach's lead, most of the USF players on Saturday didn't want to
talk much about the rankings, focusing more on Rutgers and its Heisman Trophy
candidate Ray Rice, who rushed for 202 yards in a 22-20 Scarlet Knights win over
the Bulls last season at Raymond James Stadium.

USF Athletic Director Doug Woolard said in a prepared statement, "There are a
lot of games still to be played, but this is a tremendous tribute to coach
Leavitt, our assistant coaches and especially our football student-athletes.
It's tremendously exciting to see how the whole Tampa Bay community is embracing
this team and the national recognition the entire university is receiving."

Rutgers, which was the media darling of college football last year, came into
this season highly touted. But the Scarlet Knights suffered losses to Maryland
and most recently Cincinnati before defeating Syracuse last Saturday.

"I don't have time to think about it (the polls)," said Leavitt, who had his
team practicing Sunday night because of its short week. "Rutgers has one of the
best running backs in America, and it's going to be a challenge."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2
 PHOTO / DAVID MILLS, THE LEDGER, LAKELAND Up and coming University of South
Florida quarterback Matt Grothe carries the ball against the University of
Central Florida on Saturday at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa. The Bulls placed
second in the BCS standings. ASSOCIATED PRESS / CHRIS O'MEARA Time to celebrate
South Florida tight end Cedric Hill celebrates with teammate Taurus Johnson
after catching a third quarter touchdown pass against Central Florida Saturday
in Tampa. South Florida won 64-12.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              707 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                         September 6, 2000, Wednesday,

Colleges in Maine rate well

BYLINE: SUSAN RAYFIELD Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & STATE, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 528 words

DATELINE: BRUNSWICK


Three Maine liberal arts colleges fared well in the latest ranking by U.S. News
& World Report, published in the magazine's Sept. 11 issue.

Among America's 162 liberal arts colleges, Bowdoin, in Brunswick, ranked 6
(along with three other colleges), while Bates College in Lewiston and Colby
College in Waterville tied at 19. Last year, their rankings were 9, 23 and 18,
respectively.

Amherst College in Massachusetts is listed as the No. 1 liberal arts college in
the country. Princeton ranked best among universities. All the rankings
represent data collected in 1999.

The colleges are rated by 16 indicators of academic excellence, then ranked
against their peers. The formula gives the greatest weight (25 percent) to
academic reputation. The scores are determined by asking key administrators to
rate peer schools' academic programs on a scale of 1 (marginal) to 5
(distinguished).

Bowdoin ranked 4.4 in academic reputation, with Bates and Colby rating a 4. The
University of Maine scored 2.6.

The more freshmen who return to campus and eventually graduate, the better the
school may be at offering the classes and services students need to succeed,
according to U.S. News.

Bowdoin had an average freshmen retention and graduation rate of 93 percent,
with Bates and Colby at 92 percent.

The three Maine colleges also scored well in faculty resources (including class
size, and student-faculty ratio), and the proportion of freshmen who graduated
in the top 10 percent of their high school classes.

Each year the controversial rankings stir protests from many in higher education
who believe statistics represent only part of an institution's worth. This year
is no exception.

"We are happy we're doing well, but we try not to put too much emphasis on it,"
said Bowdoin spokeswoman Allyson Algeo. "We've been penalized on average faculty
salary but we have a young faculty, which a lot of people think is good."

In the last decade, Bates College has bounced back and forth from 18 to 23 in
overall ranking, which is "not highly significant," according to Bill Hiss, vice
president for external affairs. "The report doesn't tell you that Bates, in the
past year, has had 850 international applications, enough from abroad to fill
the freshman class twice over," Hiss said.

"What should get more weight is harder to quantify, like the percent of students
doing international study, or self-designed independent courses, or honors
senior theses."

At Colby, which dropped a notch this year, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid
Parker Beverage was philosophical.

"The ranking suggests a precision that is unrealistic," he said. "Students ought
to be about the business of finding the college that best fits their strengths
and weaknesses. The highest ranking is not necessarily the best for them. My
colleagues and I would probably wish (the U.S. News ranking) away, but we
recognize it's here to stay."

"It's quite a statement that a state this small and rural has three of the
finest liberal arts colleges in the country," he said.

Staff Writer Susan Rayfield can be contacted at 725-8795 or at:
srayfield@pressherald.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2000 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.


                              708 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 17, 2017 Friday

Graduate Programs Climb in U.S. News and World Report Rankings

LENGTH: 649  words

DATELINE: New York



 Nashville: University of Tennessee System has issued the following news
release:



 Graduate education at UT earned high marks in the new U.S. News and World
Report rankings, with programs in business, law, engineering, information
sciences, nursing, and education listed among the best in the nation.





 Three of UT's overall graduate programs took big steps forward in the lists:



     The Haslam College of Business graduate program is now 29th among public
universities, up five spots from last year.



     The College of Law is now 31st among public institutions, up five spots
from last year. Its clinical training program ranks 11th.



     The Tickle College of Engineering graduate program is now 33rd among public
universities, up three spots from last year. Its aerospace engineering program
is 25th and its computer engineering program is 28th. Biosystems engineering, a
collaboration with the UT Institute of Agriculture, ranks 21st.



 Several of UT's graduate concentrations are among the top at all public and
private universities:



     Nuclear engineering is seventh in the nation.



     Supply chain management is eighth in the nation.



     The School of Information Sciences in the College of Communication and
Information is 17th in the nation.



 "Having strong graduate programs is key to our success as a top research
university," said Chancellor Beverly Davenport. "We provide students, across all
disciplines, an opportunity to participate in research alongside some of the
country's most recognized faculty who are addressing some of the world's
greatest challenges."



 Deans of the colleges with programs that saw the largest rise in rankings
agree, crediting ranking gains to stellar faculty as well as a mix of classroom
learning and hands-on experiences that prepare graduates for their careers.



 "Our ranking is a tribute to the overall quality of our MBA class and the value
that the Haslam School of Business is able to provide in terms of analytical
skills and career readiness," said Stephen L. Mangum, Stokely Foundation
Leadership Chair and dean of the Haslam College of Business. "These factors are
leading to quality postgraduate placements for our students upon graduation. We
are pleased to see that corporate recruiters and our peers recognized these
positive movements."



 Wayne Davis, dean of the Tickle College of Engineering, said, "We are seeing
some of the gains from our investment in additional high quality faculty. We are
very pleased to see those efforts being reflected in the increased ranking."



 Melanie Wilson, dean of the College of Law, said students get a great law
education at an "incredible value" at UT.



 "Our faculty are accomplished scholars and passionate teachers whose dedication
to their students extends beyond the classroom," she said. "We offer
opportunities for world-class clinical training and the promise of meaningful
legal employment after graduation, and we work tirelessly to foster a welcoming
and intellectually engaged community. I'm pleased that this year's ranking
recognizes those values."



 Also in the U.S. News 2018 rankings, the College of Nursing graduate program
ranks 30th among all public universities and the College of Education, Health,
and Human Sciences graduate program ranks 47th among all public universities.



 U.S. News ranks some programs annually and others on varying year-to-year
cycles. The School of Art's graduate printmaking program is second in the nation
and its Master of Fine Arts (MFA) is 15th among all public universities. Both
programs are based in the College of Arts and Sciences.



 U.S. News sent statistical surveys to administrators at more than 1,970
graduate programs and compared them with reputational surveys of more than
16,500 academics and professionals.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com







LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              709 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 29, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The College Rankings Racket

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA.

Gail Collins is off today.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 799 words


The U.S. News & World Report's annual college rankings came out earlier this
month and -- knock me over with a feather! -- Harvard and Princeton were tied
for first.

Followed by Yale.

Followed by Columbia.

It's not that these aren't great universities. But c'mon. Can you really say
with any precision that Princeton is ''better'' than Columbia? That the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (No. 6) is better than the California
Institute of Technology (No. 10)? That Tufts (No. 28) is better than Brandeis
(No. 33)?

Of course not. U.S. News likes to claim that it uses rigorous methodology, but,
honestly, it's just a list put together by magazine editors. The whole exercise
is a little silly. Or rather, it would be if it weren't so pernicious.

Magazines compile lists because people like to read them. With U.S. News having
folded its print edition two years ago, its rankings -- not just of colleges,
but law schools, graduate schools and even high schools -- are probably what
keep the enterprise alive. People care enough about its rankings to pay $34.95
to seek out the details on the U.S. News Web site.

And they imbue these rankings with an authority that is largely unjustified.
Universities that want to game the rankings can easily do so. U.S. News cares a
lot about how much money a school raises and how much it spends: on faculty; on
small classes; on facilities; and so on. It cares about how selective the
admissions process is.

So universities that once served populations that were different from the
Harvard or Yale student body now go after the same elite high school students
with the highest SAT scores. And schools know that, if they want to get a better
ranking, they need to spend money like mad -- even though they will have to
increase tuition that is already backbreaking. ''If you figure out how to do the
same service for less money, your U.S. News ranking will go down,'' says Kevin
Carey, the director of education policy at the New America Foundation, a
nonpartisan research group. The rankings encourage trends that ill-serve the
country.

There is something else, too. The rankings exacerbate the status anxiety that
afflicts so many high school students. The single-minded goal of too many high
school students -- pushed by parents, guidance counselors and society itself --
is to get into a ''good'' school. Those who don't land a prestigious admission
feel like failures. Those who do but lack the means often wind up taking on
onerous debt -- a burden that can last a lifetime. And U.S. News has largely
become the measure by which a good school is defined. ''U.S. News didn't invent
the social dynamic,'' says Carey. ''What it did was very accurately empiricize
them.''

As it happens, Carey has been working for a number of years with The Washington
Monthly to compile a different kind of college ranking. (I was an editor at The
Monthly in the late 1970s.) Instead of trying to serve as a gauge of status, The
Monthly's rankings attempt to gauge more useful measures: social mobility, for
instance, or ''bang for the buck.'' Its top-ranked national universities this
year are the University of California-San Diego and Texas A&M. Neither is ranked
in the top 30 by U.S. News. All they do is graduate a higher percentage of
students than you would expect given their populations -- at a reasonable price.

Yes, The Washington Monthly's rankings are yet another list compiled by magazine
editors, inevitably flawed. But the point the magazine is trying to make is that
this is the model of higher education we should be encouraging. Can you really
disagree? I have no doubt that you can obtain a very good education at Texas
A&M. As you surely can at many other institutions that don't crack the top of
the U.S. News rankings.

Not long ago, I saw an article written by a recent graduate of Stuyvesant High.
Stuyvesant, widely considered the most prestigious public high school in New
York, has just been through a cheating scandal -- one driven in no small part by
the imperative of its students to get into a prestigious college.

The author, who was not part of the cheating scandal, had succeeded in getting
into a ''Desirable University,'' as she put it, but her parents had been unable
to afford the tuition. She wound up, deeply embittered, at a state school.
Whenever people would bring up the subject of college, she wrote, she would
''mutter something about not wanting to talk about it.'' Although she claimed to
have made her peace with her education, she ended her article by vowing to save
enough so that her children wouldn't have to suffer the same fate.

How sad. Maybe someday she'll understand that where you go to college matters
far less than what you put into college. Maybe someday the readers of the U.S.
News rankings will understand that as well.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/29/opinion/nocera-the-silly-list-everyone-cares-a
bout.html

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              710 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday

Colleges set to incubate business leaders

BYLINE: Bharath Joshi

SECTION: POLITICS AND NATION

LENGTH: 443 words


BENGALURU: Entrepreneurship and research are on top of the agenda for
Bengaluru's leading engineering colleges, with the human resource development
ministry pushing for the two areas through the National Institutional Ranking
Framework, India's first in-house ranking system.

In last year's NIRF rankings, city's only two engineering colleges -MS Ramaiah
Institute of Technology (33) and RV College of Engineering (35) -figured in the
top 100 ranks in engineering.

ET independently analysed data uploaded by the institutes for the 2017 edition
of NIRF and found that some of them are claiming bragging rights in the areas of
entrepreneurship and research -the two parameters that carry half the weightage
in the rankings.

The MSRIT has had 66 students who incubated startups after graduating, the
highest for an engineering college in the city. Still, that's less than 2 per
cent of the graduating students, principal NVR Naidu pointed out. "It's not a
big number. Since last year, we are focussing more on our entrepreneurship
development cell to create more entrepreneurs."

The Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering has had 38 entrepreneurs and wants to
focus on research consultancy , an area where it is thought weak. "Medium, small
and micro enterprises (MSME) is an area we want to tap for consultancy. On the
entrepreneurship front, we've now set up the Dayananda Sagar Entrepreneurship
Research and Business Incubation (DERBI) Foundation to support student
entrepreneurs," the foundation's chief operating officer Lakshmi Jagannathan
said.

The BMS College of Engineering has taken a slew of measures, with which it hopes
to make a debut in the NIRF. Since 2013, the college has had 11 students
graduating to become entrepreneurs. "By 2020, our target is to make 2 per cent
of our students entrepreneurs," principal Mallikharjuna Babu K said. The college
has introduced comprehensive courses in every semester for students to apply
what they have learned.

The NIRF was India's response to international rankings with the parameters
suited to measure the performance of homegrown institutions. The 2017 rankings
will be announced in April. Last year, the IISc and IIM Bangalore were ranked
number one in the university and management categories respectively .

RVCE is betting on technology entrepreneurship and an interdisciplinary research
centre to improve its rank. "We have a dozen entrepreneurship clubs and about 30
per cent of our students get involved with them from the first year itself,"
principal KN Subramanya said. "We've also applied for 25 more funded research
projects in addition to what we have already."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              711 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday

What is America's top college? Depends on who is doing the ranking

LENGTH: 807  words

DATELINE: Long Beach


California State University has issued the following news release:

US News & World Report issues its annual rankings of America's colleges and
universities Tuesday. But the 30-year-old ranking faces not only criticism but
increased competition, from everyone from Money and Forbes to the White House.

For the 30th time, US News & World Report will issue its annual ranking of
America's colleges and universities on Tuesday.

Readers can wait with bated breath to see if Princeton (last year's No. 1) will
retain its top spot, or if it will juggle places with Harvard and Yale, the
other two perennially in the top three.

But while the US News rankings remain the most known of the rankings, they're
increasingly getting not only criticism - some education observers have long
blamed them for negatively impacting college affordability - but also
competition.

Recommended: Student loans: Top 10 states with the highest debt levels
This year, Money Magazine compiled its own list, emphasizing outcomes over more
nebulous criteria like reputation, and weighing data that pertains to
educational quality, affordability, and career earnings.

The top three? Babson College, Webb Institute, and the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology. Princeton, Stanford, and Harvard quickly follow, but lesser-known
schools like New York's Cooper Union and Harvey Mudd College in Claremont,
Calif., rank well ahead of Yale (No. 15).

The goal, wrote the Money editors, was "to give students and parents a much
better indication of which colleges will provide real value for their tuition
dollars and enhance a student's earning potential."

Washington Monthly, which has been ranking colleges since 2005, also uses a
different sort of criteria in ranking its schools - based on how well colleges
deliver on three public goods: social mobility, commitment to research, and
commitment to service. It now also gives special attention to the best "bang for
your buck" schools.

Forbes, Newsweek, and The Princeton Review all have their own lists.

And the federal government is getting into the game, too. After a bus tour last
fall in which he called attention to college affordability, and the growing
problem of increased student debt and spiraling college costs, President Obama
unveiled a plan to start rating colleges based on things such asrati college
completion rates and sticker price.

"We're going to start rating colleges not just by which college is the most
selective, not just by which college is the most expensive, not just by which
college has the nicest facilities - you can get all of that on the existing
rating systems. What we want to do is rate them on who's offering the best value
so students and taxpayers get a bigger bang for their buck," Obama said at the
time.

Developing that system has been more complicated than the administration
expected, and the Education Department recently announced that it would be
releasing a draft later than expected, with the complete ratings scheduled to be
in place before the beginning of the 2015 school year.

The idea - along with serving as an informational tool for students and an
incentive for colleges to do better - is that eventually, Congress could pass
legislation tying federal aid to those ratings, and disqualifying the worst
schools. It's a major reason most colleges have been opposed to the idea. In
March, the American Council on Education issued a scathing report on the
proposed ratings, detailing the harm that has come from other ranking systems -
such as US News - and questioning the proposed system's ability to be useful,
accurate, or impartial, particularly since it is designed to serve both
consumers and policymakers.

In an attempt to highlight how difficult the government's task will be,
particularly in ferreting out the worst performers and the colleges that
theoretically might be disqualified from receiving federal aid dollars,
Washington Monthly this year tried to compile a list of America's worst schools.
Assigning different degrees of importance to four key measures - net price,
average student debt, loan default rate, and graduation rate - the magazine came
up with very different lists.

"Some nonselective colleges produce admirable graduation rates at an affordable
price to students. Others are lucky to see one-fifth of starting students on
through to graduation. Some charge sky-high prices and graduate students with
large amounts of debt while others may be quite cheap," Ben Miller wrote in
Washington Monthly. He argued that shining a spotlight on some of the
institutions that perform the poorest on these measures may actually do a far
greater service to families who might otherwise apply to them than parsing the
small differences among top colleges.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              712 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 30, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Chaos of College Rankings

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1256 words


Willard Dix is one of the crankiest observers of the college admissions process
I know; he's also one of the smartest. He worked at Amherst, his alma mater,
then advised college-bound students at a private secondary school in Chicago. He
now blogs about higher education.

I asked him on the phone the other day about the dizzying proliferation of
college rankings beyond those by U.S. News & World Report, each using its own
methodology and emphasizing different metrics. If a tone of voice can
approximate an eye roll, his did.

''You can slice and dice it any way you like, but this isn't like Consumer
Reports, which tests something to see if it does or doesn't work,'' he said.
''The interaction between a student and an institution is not the same as the
interaction between a student and a refrigerator.''

I can't improve on that quip. But I can explain it in terms of what rankings do
and don't reveal and how high school seniors, who are right now in the thick of
figuring out where they want to apply, should approach them.

There are now dozens of rankings, reflecting both the way we've come to
fetishize data and the anxiety that so many Americans rightly feel about
wringing the most from an increasingly costly investment. Just last month came a
new one from The Wall Street Journal and Times Higher Education (which is
unrelated to The New York Times).

It joined a jammed field of players, including The Economist, Forbes, and, yes,
this newspaper, whose College Access Index looks narrowly at which of the
country's top schools seem to be the most socioeconomically diverse.

Inasmuch as all of these rankings rely on, and compile, objective information
about the schools they examine, they're useful. But all of them also make
subjective value judgments about what's most important in higher education, and
those judgments may or may not dovetail with a student's interests. It's crucial
to look at precisely what's being measured -- which is easy to do, if you read
the fine print.

Some rankings assign more weight than others do to the selectiveness of a school
and the academic background of its incoming students, on the theory that a
high-achieving peer group matters.

Some don't really try that hard to get at the question of how satisfied a
school's students are. Others do, but take varying routes to the answer. Some
look in meaningful ways at diversity, which can greatly influence campus life
and classroom discussions and says something about administrators' priorities.
Others don't.

Over the last few years, there has been a movement toward ranking colleges in
terms of how much money their graduates go on to make -- something that U.S.
News has never directly factored in but that The Wall Street Journal, The
Economist, Forbes and Money Magazine, among others, do. My Times colleague James
Stewart recently examined this development.

But here, too, there are necessary caveats. Graduates' incomes probably have
more to do with dynamics that precede college -- their parents' wealth, their
childhood opportunities, their innate gifts -- than with the particular
seasoning of a given institution, and not all salary-oriented rankings pay
careful attention to this.

The economist Jonathan Rothwell found a way to reward colleges whose graduates
achieved more than their backgrounds might have predicted, with a set of
''value-added'' rankings that he produced for the Brookings Institution early
last year. His inaugural list differed markedly from U.S. News's, with Colgate
University, Washington and Lee University, Clarkson University and Manhattan
College appearing in the Top 10, above any Ivy League school. He later tweaked
and adapted this list for a column in The Times by Stewart last October.

But there are also problems with these income-oriented approaches (beyond their
implication that money equals contentment and success). One of the two principal
sources for income figures is PayScale, a company that collects salary
information. It relies on self-reported numbers from people who use its
database, and is by no means a comprehensive, definitive survey.

The other source is the federal government's College Scorecard, but its figures
are only for people who received federal aid and reflect what they're earning in
the earliest years of their careers. Schools whose students move quickly into
professions with high starting salaries fare better by this yardstick than do
schools whose students choose careers that tend to develop slowly.

My larger point is this: For almost every well-intentioned measurement, there's
either a fundamental shortcoming or possible glitch. Take the Wall Street
Journal rankings, which significantly factor in how a school's current students,
in a survey, evaluate their experience.

This would seem to be -- and perhaps is -- an excellent idea. But in visiting
colleges over time, I've noticed that the ones with the loftiest reputations
sometimes marinate in their own mythology, sending students all sorts of
messages about what an extraordinary opportunity they're enjoying. This
self-congratulation surely colors the survey responses, which may wind up saying
as much about a school's status as about anything else.

Rothwell, who is now at Gallup, conceded that even the best rankings were
''deeply flawed.'' ''They don't measure learning outcomes,'' he told me, ''and
it seems to me that that's probably the chief goal of higher education: to teach
people.''

The best way to use rankings is to focus on discrete assessments that speak to
distinct concerns. For instance, if you care about socioeconomic diversity,
consider Washington Monthly's rankings. They pay heed to that while also trying
to determine how potent an agent of social mobility a school is and how broadly
and deeply its students subscribe to an ethos of community service. Washington
Monthly is judging institutions' characters as much as their clout.

The ScholarMatcher, in its second year, is an interactive tool designed to show
students from households with incomes of less than $50,000 which schools are
most likely to be affordable and to leave them in good financial stead.

In an utterly different vein, the Heterodox Academy, which is a group of
professors concerned about ideological diversity, has just begun rating schools
on their apparent commitment to that. It ranks the University of Chicago highest
among large institutions; Purdue is the runner-up.

But rankings cannot take into account, and thus ignore, the most consequential
part of the equation, which isn't some spell that a given school casts on a
student but a student's commitment, curiosity, daring. An obsession with
rankings obscures and invariably minimizes this essential truth.

''We should not overlook the effort that it takes to be a serious student,''
Janet Napolitano, the president of the University of California system, told me
recently. She went to Santa Clara University, not because of how it was ranked
on some list but because it was Dad's alma mater, and California sounded cool to
a girl who'd grown up in New Mexico. Once there, she studied hard, she recalled,
and emerged as the school's first female valedictorian.

''You get out of it what you put into it,'' she said. I guess the same does
apply to a refrigerator, but only if you're talking about condiments.

I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni) and join me on Facebook.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/30/opinion/sunday/how-to-make-sense-of-
college-rankings.html

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BEN WISEMAN)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              713 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            November 15, 2015 Sunday

UMass Lowell lauded for veterans services

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: SCHOOLS

LENGTH: 211 words


LOWELL -- UMass Lowell has been ranked 107th among the best colleges for
veterans by College Factual, a trusted resource that uses customizable tools and
outcomes-based rankings systems to guide students through the college-selection
process.

Several factors important to veterans were used to determine the ranking. Some
important data points are how affordable the school is to veterans, the size of
the veteran population at the school, whether the school accepts ACE credits and
offers flexible learning options, and availability of veteran resources, such as
a veterans' office on campus.

The ranking also includes important quality metrics, including graduation and
retention rates, reported earnings of graduates, percentage of full-time
teachers, and average student-loan default rate.

In addition to UML's placement in Best Colleges for Veterans Overall, the
institution also ranks highly for veterans in Criminal Justice and Corrections,
placing 16th of 428. The institution is also ranked 19th of 382 for veterans in
Liberal Arts and General Studies.

See all of the school's rankings at http://www.collegefactual.com/colleges/
university-of-massachusetts-lowell /rankings/badges/.

For more information about College Factual's rankings, visit
www.collegefactual.com .

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              714 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Herald (Goa) (India)

                             April 4, 2017 Tuesday

GU falls from 20th to 64th in national rankings

LENGTH: 382 words

DATELINE: PANJIM


PANJIM, April 4 -- Goa University (GU) which was ranked 20th last year has
slipped to 64th position in the latest National Institutional Ranking Framework
(NIRF) for Indian Universities announced by the Ministry of Human Resource
Development (MHRD). Goa also failed to make it to the top 10 list in all
categories.

GU, was ranked 64th in the University category with overall score of 37.16 in
the countrywide ranking of universities announced by MHRD. The other Goa-based
institutions which found mention in the ranking list include - Goa Institute of
Management (37th in Management Institution Category), Government College of
Arts, Science and Commerce, Quepem (53rd in the College Category) and Goa
College of Pharmacy (30th in Pharmacy Category).

GU officials were unavailable for the comment even after repeated attempts.

Speaking to Herald, Higher Education Director, and Principal, Quepem Government
College, Bhaskar Nayak said, "I am proud that Quepem Government College has
achieved this ranking and this has been possible due to the teamwork of all the
teachers and Vice-Principal. We have the best of teachers who are PHD, great
research centres and we also have an NAAC A grade. In terms of other categories
Goa University was 20th last year and this time its 64th and it means that 40
universities have come up come above GU. There are a lot of parameters based on
which the ranking were given, I have not gone through the detailed report as
yet."

This year, 2735 educational institutions participated in the NRIF ranking.
Though the number is lower than last year's 3563 participants, the deficit 800
institutes are going to be introduced in different categories. Law was also
introduced this year. NIRF has also moderated the parameters and decided an
overall ranking to all the participant universities.

Institutes were marked on 20 parameters under the NIRF that was launched last
year. The criteria used for ranking the institutions included teaching/learning
resources, research, graduation outcomes (employability), outreach/ social and
gender inclusivity and perception.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Herald Goa. For
any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 Herald Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              715 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                     PR.com

                     October 7, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

U.S. News Again Names HIU as One of America's Best Colleges

BYLINE: Hope International University

LENGTH: 311  words


Fullerton, CA,  October 07, 2015 --(PR.com)-- The annual U.S. News Best Colleges
rankings help prospective students and their families compare institutions as
they look for the right school. The host of intangibles that makes up the
college experience can't be measured by a series of data points. But for
families concerned with finding the best academic value for their money, the
U.S. News Best Colleges rankings provide an excellent starting point for the
search.

"Regional Colleges" focus on undergraduate education but grant fewer than half
their degrees in liberal arts disciplines. These colleges are further divided
and ranked in four geographical groups: North, South, Midwest, and West. The
vast West region extends from Texas and Oklahoma to Alaska and Hawaii.

The U.S. News ranking system rests on two pillars. The formula uses quantitative
measures that education experts have proposed as reliable indicators of academic
quality, and it's based on their researched view of what matters in education.

First, regionally accredited schools are categorized by their mission, which is
derived from the breakdown of types of higher education institutions as refined
by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching in 2010. The Carnegie
classification, which is used extensively by higher education researchers, has
been the basis of the Best Colleges ranking category system since these rankings
first were published in 1983.

Once schools have been divided by category, U.S. News gathers data from each
college on up to 16 indicators of academic excellence. Each factor is assigned a
weight that reflects their judgment about how much that measure matters.
Finally, the colleges and universities in each category are ranked against their
peers, based on their composite weighted score.

To see details of HIU's scores and key indicators, visit ow.ly/S0zCN

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2015 PR.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              716 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Clover Herald (South Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             January 9, 2009 Friday

Report: UVa best value among public universities

BYLINE: The Daily Progress, Charlottesville, Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 427 words


Jan. 9--The University of Virginia offers students the best education for their
money of all the nation's public universities, according to Best Value Colleges
for 2009, a ranking released Thursday by The Princeton Review and USA Today.

Based on surveys of administrators and students at more than 650 public and
private colleges and universities, The Princeton Review measured more than 30
factors in three general areas: academics, cost of attendance and financial aid.

It announced its rankings of the top 50 public and private universities in
today's edition of USA Today, and during a morning appearance on NBC's "Today"
show.

The Best Value rankings used data from the 2007-08 academic year, when the
estimated total cost of attendance -- including tuition, fees and other expenses
(including room, board, laundry/cleaning, books/supplies and other personal
expenses) -- was $18,993 for in-state students and $38,243 for out-of-state
students. Of that, tuition accounted for $6,628 for in-state students and
$25,643 for out-of-staters.

This year the estimated total cost of attendance is $20,292 for Virginians
(including $7,121 in tuition) and $40,592 for non-Virginians ($27,203 tuition).

Tuition, fees, housing and meal plan costs for the 2009-10 academic year have
not yet been set.

Students whose family incomes are 200 percent of the federal poverty line or
below receive loan-free, all-grant aid packages; all other students, regardless
of their state residency, have the maximum amount of their need-based loans
capped at approximately 25 percent of UVa's in-state cost of attendance over
four years, meeting all need above that amount with grants.

Under the AccessUVa plan, UVa meets 100 percent of students' demonstrated
financial need.

Virginia ranked No. 4 in The Princeton Review's previous Best Value rankings,
announced in April 2007, and No. 7 in its March 2006 rankings.

The College of William & Mary, in Williamsburg, took third in the 2009 Best
Value rankings of public institutions, giving Virginia universities two of the
top three spots.

Swarthmore College, in Pennsylvania, topped the private school rankings.

To see more of The Daily Progress or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.dailyprogress.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, The Daily Progress,
Charlottesville, Va. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090109-CV-COLLEGE-RANKINGS-20090109

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CV


               Copyright 2009 The Clover Herald (South Carolina)


                              717 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            March 30, 2016 Wednesday

Graduate programs rise in rankings

LENGTH: 420  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Springfield: University of Illinois Springfield has issued the following news
release:



  Several colleges and specialty programs at UIC rose significantly in the
latest U.S. News & World Report rankings of graduate schools.





 The rankings are intended to help prospective professional and graduate
students research academic programs at different institutions and evaluate the
potential return on their investment.



 One of the largest jumps was made by the College of Pharmacy, which moved up
eight spots to No. 6.



 "We feel that a ranking of sixth is much more reflective of the world-class
education that is available at the UIC College of Pharmacy," said its dean,
Jerry Bauman. "Between our impactful research programs, large array of
innovative clinical practice experiences, and our amazing residency
opportunities, there is really no other college that can match us."



 The College of Education moved up two spots, to 41st, while the College of
Engineering rose one spot, to 60th. The College of Medicine (research) improved
to 47th from 49th, and UIC's part-time MBA program improved to 78th from 109th.



 The College of Nursing ranked 23rd, and had six specialty programs ranked even
higher: family nurse practitioner (7th), nursing administration (8th), midwifery
(10th), gerontology nurse practitioner (10th), pediatric nurse practitioner
(12th) and psychiatric nurse practitioner (13th).



 Two programs in the College of Applied Health Sciences ranked in the top 20:
occupational health remained at No. 4, while physical therapy rose one spot, to
15th.



 "The U.S. News & World Report rankings reflect our increasing national
reputation and our commitment to research, education and clinical excellence,"
said Dr. Robert Barish, vice chancellor for health affairs.



 Students can pursue their research interests in leading laboratories, said
Susan Poser, provost and vice chancellor for academic affairs.



 "Research at UIC is reshaping educational policy -- developing cleaner, more
sustainable energy; helping to make sense of today's vast amounts of
computer-generated data; and driving economic development by moving research to
practical application, among other things," Poser said. "We are pleased that
U.S. News is beginning to recognize the extraordinary and varied research at UIC
and the high quality of education and opportunity that our outstanding student
body receives."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com









LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              718 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                          September 13, 1998, Sunday,

Top ranking boosts UMF;
 The Farmington campus is working to maintain its reputation as the north's best
public liberal arts college.

BYLINE: ANDREW GARBER Staff Writer

SECTION: MAINE/NEW ENGLAND, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 914 words


Thousands of people are calling for information about the University of Maine in
Farmington. Out-of-state enrollment is up. Articles are appearing in newspapers.
Suddenly, many people know about the small, rural campus.

Much of the new-found recognition can be tied to a stroke of luck that helped
put the campus at the top of a U.S. News & World Report ranking as the best
public liberal arts college north of Maryland.

The campus has consistently scored well in the popular rankings. But two years
ago, the magazine started listing regional liberal arts colleges differently.
The public colleges were separated from the privates, and Farmington shot up,
school officials say.

For the second year in a row, the campus has gotten a high ranking in the
magazine. "It is really kind of unexpected," says Theodora Kalikow, president of
the campus. "We're going along, and then -- 'pow.' "

That's not to say Farmington doesn't deserve the recognition. It is the only
campus in Maine's university system that is ranked in the magazine's "second
tier." U.S. News & World report has four tiers, with the first tier representing
the best institutions.

The rankings are based on the academic reputation of institutions, as well as
other information, including student selectivity and financial resources.

Five of the remaining six campuses in Maine's system made the magazine's
third-tier listings. The University of Southern Maine was ranked in the fourth
tier.

Also, while some of Maine's other campuses, notably the University of Maine in
Orono, have been plagued with enrollment declines in the past, the Farmington
campus has held its own.

All this raises a politically charged question: Does the Farmington campus offer
a better education than all of the other campuses?

Some students in Farmington, understandably, say yes, and point out where the
other campuses rank.  The magazine's listing "more than anything, validates our
feelings" about the quality of education offered at Farmington, says George
Arey, president of the student senate.

University officials, however, say the other campuses are either in completely
different categories in the rankings, or that the campuses have "different
missions" in terms of the students they serve and the types of courses offered.
So, no, they can't be compared, officials say.

UMaine offers liberal arts programs that are just as good as the ones offered by
the Farmington campus, said Joe Carr, a UMaine spokesman. Farmington should be
applauded for getting a top ranking, he said, but "it's very hard to compare the
two institutions, because they are very different."

In fact, they are. UMaine is a much larger institution with several thousand
more students and offers a much broader array of degrees.

Universities and colleges generally have mixed feelings about rankings, said Rob
Lively, dean of the College of Arts and Sciences in Farmington. "When you are
listed, it is very important. When you are not, it is a bunch of crap."

Faculty and students in Farmington feel the ranking is well deserved.

Since the early 1990s, the Farmington campus has deliberately portrayed itself
as a small, exclusive liberal arts college. Enrollment was capped at 2,000 to
keep class sizes small and not strain resources.

Also, the campus -- known primarily for preparing school teachers -- increased
its arts and science programs.  The natural sciences department has won several
National Science Foundation grants in recent years that have allowed it to
update laboratories with advanced equipment.

Today, students are split about evenly between teaching and the arts and
sciences.

Students on campus talk about how close-knit the community is.

Arey recalls spending a semester at UMaine. "When I was up there, I would sit in
the front row and professors wouldn't recognize me."

At the Farmington campus, the student body is small enough that professors and
students get to know each other, he said.

The U.S. News & World Report rankings, regardless of how other institutions view
them, are clearly a boost for the Farmington campus.

Students and, more importantly, parents use the rankings as a guide to pick
which colleges to consider.

Enrollment of new out-of-state students went from 118 students last year to 151
this year, the institution's biggest single year increase. The number of
inquiries has jumped from 3,800 to about 6,000 in the same period.

The increases occurred at the same time the campus increased its marketing
campaign, so it's difficult to tell how much can be attributed to the magazine's
ranking, school officials said. However, people looking into the campus have
mentioned the rankings, said Tom Donaghue, a spokesman for the Farmington
campus.

University officials say they hope the rankings will help boost applications to
the campus. There were 1,291 applications for this year.  The university wants
to receive 1,400 next year.

Increasing the number of applications means the campus can be more selective in
accepting students. That, in turn, improves its reputation and its prospects for
staying on top in the college rankings.

Students and faculty say they won't be terribly upset if the Farmington campus
drops in the rankings in the coming years. Yet they clearly enjoy the attention.

"It was an ego boost," said Miles Connors, a senior majoring in environmental
planning and policy. "You start taking your education a little more seriously."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 3 color;

Staff photos by David A. Rodgers;

 The Merrill Building at the University of Maine at Farmington was the first
building erected at Maine's first public college.;

 The health and fitness center at the University of Maine's Farmington campus is
a feature that draws students as well as local residents. After the school
received U.S. News & World Report's top second-tier ranking, enrollment of new
out-of-state students increased from 118 students last year to 151 this year,
the institution's biggest single-year increase. The number of inquiries rose
from 3,800 to about 6,000 in the same period.;

 Students sit in the shade Friday outside the Student Center at the University
of Maine at Farmington. The campus, which portrays itself as a small, exclusive
liberal arts college, limited its enrollment to 2,000.

                Copyright 1998 Guy Gannett Communications, Inc.


                              719 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Blade (Toledo, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 13, 2014 Thursday

Law college at UT ranked last in Ohio, Michigan

BYLINE: The Blade, Toledo, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 472 words


March 13--The University of Toledo's college of law rose in the latest U.S. News
& World Report rankings, though it still placed last in the rankings among Ohio
and Michigan's public law schools.

The college moved to 140th on the rankings released this week. Last year its
rank was not published.

"While we are certainly pleased to see the hard work of Dean Daniel Steinbock,
his staff, and law school students raise this particular ranking, the most
important and relevant metrics -- bar passage rates, successful employment, and
financial accessibility -- clearly demonstrate UT's College of Law is strong and
continuing to thrive," UT President Lloyd Jacobs said.

The law school's U.S. News ranking has fluctuated in recent years, after peaking
in a six-way tie for 85th place in 2007 on the widely cited list. It was ranked
129th two years ago, and 148th the year before.

The ranks are determined mostly through such data as student LSAT scores,
acceptance rates, and faculty-student ratios. They're an imperfect science, but
a highly sought-after source of prestige and a key marketing tool.

Though UT moved up in the rankings, its law school was still ranked only sixth
out of nine law schools in Ohio.

UT is unlikely to ever threaten the area's top-ranked school, the 10th-ranked
University of Michigan -- as the local school simply doesn't have the resources
of larger or more prestigious schools, Mr. Steinbock said.

But rankings aren't everything, the law dean said.

A graduate of Yale University's law program, which topped this year's rankings,
Mr. Steinbock said the rankings are a gauge of student pedigree, not program
quality. They don't measure a school's quality of education, he said, and UT has
the lowest tuition of any Ohio or Michigan law school, meaning graduates can
move into their profession with less debt.

"I think there's no question that we give an excellent education at a good
price," Mr. Steinbock said.

UT's annual law tuition, at $22,203 for in-state students, is only slightly
cheaper than that at the higher-ranked University of Cincinnati ($23,536),
University of Akron ($23,583), and Cleveland State University ($23,816). Tuition
at Ohio State, Ohio's highest-rated law school, is $28,033.

As Dr. Jacobs said, UT law graduates have consistently passed state bar
examinations at high rates. Scores of graduates have been appointed judges, and
UT alumni are partners, general counsels, and lead litigators at many top firms,
Mr. Steinbock has noted in the past. Ohio Supreme Court Justice Judith Lanzinger
is a graduate of the college.

Those results have garnered UT graduates a solid reputation in the region's
legal community, leaders of the Toledo Bar Association have said.

___ (c)2014 The Blade (Toledo, Ohio) Visit The Blade (Toledo, Ohio) at
www.toledoblade.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140313-TO-Law-college-at-UT-ranked-last-in-Ohio-Michigan-0313-20140313

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TO


                            Copyright 2014 The Blade


                              720 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           September 15, 2015 Tuesday

UMFK earns accolades in U.S. News rankings

LENGTH: 241 words

DATELINE: FORT KENT


- The University of Maine at Fort Kent is again among the Top Public Colleges in
the North region, according to the U.S. News & World Report 2016 rankings
released Sept. 9.


The latest rankings put UMFK in the top tier at 37, and 13th among public
colleges in the North. This makes the campus' fifth consecutive year as a top-15
public institution.


"Being recognized by U.S. News and World Report demonstrates UMFK's long-term
commitment to providing a quality academic experience. Hardworking, dedicated
faculty and staff are focused on helping our students be successful, " said
Interim UMFK President John Murphy.


The ranking marks the third national accolade for UMFK in the last three weeks.
UMFK also received the badge for a fifth consecutive year as a College of
Distinction, one of only 200 colleges and universities nationwide to receive
that praise, and it was named as a "Best Northeastern College" by the
prestigious publication The Princeton Review for the 11th consecutive year.


The university also ranked 12th among the Best Regional Colleges in the North
for veterans.


U.S. News & World Report bases the U.S. ranking on measures including peer
assessment; graduation and retention rates; faculty resources; student
selectivity; financial resources; and alumni giving. The North region includes
the states of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island,
Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Bangor Daily News


                              721 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           September 15, 2015 Tuesday

UMFK earns accolades in U.S. News rankings

LENGTH: 241 words

DATELINE: FORT KENT


- The University of Maine at Fort Kent is again among the Top Public Colleges in
the North region, according to the U.S. News & World Report 2016 rankings
released Sept. 9.


The latest rankings put UMFK in the top tier at 37, and 13th among public
colleges in the North. This makes the campus' fifth consecutive year as a top-15
public institution.


"Being recognized by U.S. News and World Report demonstrates UMFK's long-term
commitment to providing a quality academic experience. Hardworking, dedicated
faculty and staff are focused on helping our students be successful, " said
Interim UMFK President John Murphy.


The ranking marks the third national accolade for UMFK in the last three weeks.
UMFK also received the badge for a fifth consecutive year as a College of
Distinction, one of only 200 colleges and universities nationwide to receive
that praise, and it was named as a "Best Northeastern College" by the
prestigious publication The Princeton Review for the 11th consecutive year.


The university also ranked 12th among the Best Regional Colleges in the North
for veterans.


U.S. News & World Report bases the U.S. ranking on measures including peer
assessment; graduation and retention rates; faculty resources; student
selectivity; financial resources; and alumni giving. The North region includes
the states of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island,
Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Bangor Daily News


                              722 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                  The Register-Herald (Beckley, West Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 31, 2011 Monday

BRIEF: Southern Community College 14th in nation

BYLINE: Sarah Plummer, The Register-Herald, Beckley, W.Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 139 words


Oct. 31--LOGAN -- Southern West Virginia Community and Technical College, in
Logan, is ranked 14th out of 50 Best Community Colleges in America by
"Washington Monthly." These rankings are based on the Community College Survey
of Student Engagement and graduation rates published by the U.S. Department of
Education.

Southern's President Joanne Jaeger Tomblin stated, "All of us at Southern work
hard to help our students succeed. This ranking is a testament to out faculty
and staff and the College's support of student learning. As an institution we
are emphasizing college completion and obviously we are doing something right by
our national ranking. We are honored by the news."

___ (c)2011 The Register-Herald (Beckley, W.Va.) Visit The Register-Herald
(Beckley, W.Va.) at www.register-herald.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111031-WZ-BRF-Southern-Community-College-14th-in-nation-1031-20111031

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WZ


                       Copyright 2011 The Register-Herald


                              723 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                            August 9, 2014 Saturday

Tony Dobrowolski: Why this country ranks things

BYLINE: By Tony Dobrowolski, Berkshire Eagle Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Opinion

LENGTH: 707 words


PITTSFIELD

We love to either rank or rate things in this country.

Businesses, colleges, sports teams, vacation spots, sales of expensive homes,
income levels there's always a list.

I guess it makes us feel good to know where everything stands. Puts things in
perspective, creates a sense of order, cuts down on the chaos.

But what do these rankings or ratings really mean?

Is one business really better than another in the same field because its
earnings were a
little higher last year?

Did Alabama's football team deserve to lose its number one ranking last year
because Auburn pulled off a once-in-a-lifetime miracle after time had run out on
the final play of the last regular season game?

Is a suburban high school district better than its urban counterpart because
it's ranked higher based on student test scores?

Are politicians really as good or bad as the polls say they are?

Viewed through the narrow prism of a ranking or rating system the answers are
yes. But there's so much more to consider. Rankings can provide us with a
snapshot of what's going on, but not the entire picture.

Some rankings and ratings are more important than others. For example, it's
important to know the income levels of each community to determine which areas
need aid and which don't.

But some rankings aren't as important as others. Take the ranking of colleges,
for example.

Williams College recently earned the top spot in Forbes Magazine's seventh
annual list of the country's best colleges. The rankings are based on several
academic and fiscal metrics, which is all well
and good.

But is Williams really a better college than second-place Stanford or
third-place Swarthmore or fourth-place Princeton? It's almost impossible to
quantify that. Stanford, for instance, was first in last year's rankings, while
Princeton was first in 2012. Are either of those schools significantly different
now than they were a year or two ago? All of these schools have excellent
academic credentials. How do you rank them first, second or third?

The rankings might catch the attention of prospective students, but I think what
matters to students more is how each school fits them academically, socially or,
perhaps, athletically.

Some colleges, like Virginia Tech, have received big enrollment boosts based on
the success of one of their athletic teams, but none of that really applies for
schools on the top 100 list (Virginia Tech isn't on it).

n

Rankings are used all the time in business. The stock market is more of a rating
system than a ranking system, because firms are ranked alphabetically by their
symbols, not by the percentage that their stock may have fluctuated that day.
But this system does help stockholders keep track of their earnings, and whether
to buy or sell them.

The advent of online trading has changed the game a little bit, I would say,
because now you can track the status of a stock immediately in real time. Some
might say this type of system makes it easier to buy or sell stock when playing
the market, but not me. It's too much of a gamble. Stock trading isn't a video
game. When it comes to investing, I would take slow and steady over instant
gratification any day.

Ranking sports teams is probably the most popular form of this exercise. Some
followers of college basketball or football follow the top 25 rankings
religiously when their seasons are in session. But these rankings are also
flawed.

USA Today's Top25 college football poll comes out on Sunday night, a day after
most of the weekend's games have been played. Even with modern technology, do
you think that gives all of the 62 coaches who participate in that poll enough
time to accurately assess every team? That's almost impossible.

Those who don't have the time to watch every game often vote for teams based on
reputation or how they beat their opponent that week, which is one reason
coaches of good teams tend to run up the score when the opposition is much
weaker. Does this give us an accurate picture of which team is better or worse?
I don't think so.

But it does allow us to put things somewhat in perspective. And that's what we
use our ratings and rankings for.

Tony Dobrowolski is the business editor of The Berkshire Eagle. He can be
reached at tdobrowolski@berkshireeagle.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              724 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times-Herald (California)

                            August 31, 2017 Thursday

Cal Maritime Academy ranks high in national study

BYLINE: Rachel Raskin-Zrihen; rzrihen@timesheraldonline.com @RachelVTH on
Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 356 words

ABSTRACT

CMA ranks high in national study

FULL TEXT

Vallejo's California State University Maritime Academy earned high rankings
among colleges nationally for contributing to the public good, and bang for the
buck - and is at the top when it comes to what graduates earn - according to the
Washington Monthly, school officials announced this week.

In the overall rankings which rated schools on their contribution

to the public good, Cal Maritime ranked fifth among (more than 200) national
baccalaureate colleges, Cal Maritime spokesman Robert King said.

This is likely the third or fourth consecutive year of such rankings for the
school, he said.

The rankings are based on three categories: recruiting and graduating low-income
students; producing cutting-edge scholarship; and encouraging students to give
back to their country.

"Among baccalaureate colleges in the west, Cal Maritime ranked third overall in
the publication's 'bang for the buck' rankings," he said. "These rankings
reflect the degree to which schools help non-wealthy students attain marketable
degrees at affordable prices. The publication also ranked the school No. 1 in
'earnings performance' for alumni."

This does not surprise CMA president Tom Cropper.

"We believe that - in addition to graduating high-earning alumni - we are
training highly-skilled leaders for the maritime, transportation, and related
industries," Cropper said. "Everyone at Cal Maritime plays a role in the success
of our graduates: faculty, staff, administrators, and our hard-working graduates
themselves."

The U.S. Department of Education's College Scorecard ranks Cal Maritime first
among public California universities for graduate earnings 10 years after
enrollment, King said. The academy is also one of only 15 four-year colleges in
the U.S. to receive a perfect score for "value added" to student outcomes in a
study by the Brookings Institute, he said.

"Money magazine ranked the school as one of America's Best Public Colleges and
Forbes recently ranked Cal Maritime No. 20 nationally among public colleges with
high-earning graduates," King said.

Contact Rachel Raskin-Zrihen at (707) 553-6824.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              725 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 23, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY Top 25 coaches' poll;
College football

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 676 words


Times p.m. Eastern

1. Florida (11-0)

Points: 1,459 (47 first-place votes). Previous ranking: 1. This week: Saturday
vs. Florida State (CBS, 3:30). Last week: Beat Florida International 62-3.

2. Texas (11-0)

Points: 1,398 (4). Previous ranking: 2. This week: Thursday at Texas A&M (ESPN,
8). Last week: Beat Kansas 51-20.

3. Alabama (11-0)

Points: 1,388 (8). Previous ranking: 3. This week: Friday at Auburn (CBS, 2:30).
Last week: Beat Chattanooga 45-0.

4. TCU (11-0)

Points: 1,279. Previous ranking: 4. This week: Saturday vs. New Mexico (the
Mtn., 1). Last week: Beat Wyoming 45-10.

5. Cincinnati (10-0)

Points: 1,224. Previous ranking: 5. This week: Friday vs. Illinois (ABC, noon).
Last week: Idle.

6. Boise State (11-0)

Points: 1,181. Previous ranking: 6. This week: Friday vs. Nevada (ESPN2, 10).
Last week: Beat Utah State 52-21.

7. Georgia Tech (10-1)

Points: 1,125. Previous ranking: 7. This week: Saturday vs. Georgia (ABC, 8).
Last week: Idle.

8. Ohio State (10-2)

Points: 1,031. Previous ranking: 8. Next: Jan. 1 vs. No. 10 Oregon or No. 18
Oregon State in Rose Bowl at Pasadena, Calif. (ABC, 5). Last week: Beat Michigan
21-10.

9. Pittsburgh (9-1)

Points: 1,021. Previous ranking: 9. This week: Friday at West Virginia (ESPN2,
7). Last week: Idle.

10. Oregon (9-2)

Points: 941. Previous ranking: 11. Next game: Dec. 3 vs. No. 18 Oregon State
(ESPN, 9). Last week: Beat Arizona 44-41 2OT.

11. Penn State (10-2)

Points: 843. Previous ranking: 12. This week: Regular season complete. Last
week: Beat Michigan State 42-14.

12. Oklahoma State (9-2)

Points: 815. Previous ranking: 13. This week: Saturday at Oklahoma (FSN, 12:30).
Last week: Beat Colorado31-28.

13. Iowa (10-2)

Points: 714. Previous ranking: 15. This week: Regular season complete. Last
week: Beat Minnesota 12-0.

14. Virginia Tech (8-3)

Points: 656. Previous ranking: 16. This week: Saturday at Virginia (ESPN, 3:30).
Last week: Beat North Carolina State 38-10.

15. Brigham Young (9-2)

Points: 510. Previous ranking: 18. This week: Saturday vs. No. 19 Utah (CBS
College Sports, 4). Last week: Beat Air Force 38-21.

16. Clemson (8-3)

Points: 467. Previous ranking: 19. This week: Saturday at South Carolina (ESPN,
noon). Last week: Beat Virginia 34-21.

17. LSU (8-3)

Points: 463. Previous ranking: 10. This week: Saturday vs. Arkansas (ESPN, 7).
Last week: Lost to then-unranked Mississippi 25-23.

18. Oregon State (8-3)

Points: 450. Previous ranking: 20. Next game: Dec. 3 at No. 10 Oregon (ESPN, 9).
Last week: Beat Washington State 42-10.

19. Utah (9-2)

Points: 318. Previous ranking: 23. This week: Saturday at No. 15 Brigham Young
(CBS College Sports, 4). Last week: Beat San Diego State 38-7.

20. Houston (9-2)

Points: 305. Previous ranking: 22. This week: Saturday vs. Rice. Last week: Beat
Memphis 55-14.

21. Miami (Fla.) (8-3)

Points: 266. Previous ranking: 24. This week: Saturday at South Florida (ABC,
3:30). Last week: Beat Duke 34-16.

22. Southern

California (7-3)

Points: 261. Previous ranking: 21. This week: Saturday vs. UCLA (FSN, 10). Last
week: Idle.

23. Nebraska (8-3)

Points: 191. Previous ranking: 25 (tie). This week: Friday at Colorado (ABC,
3:30). Last week: Beat Kansas State 17-3.

24. North Carolina (8-3)

Points: 167. Previous ranking: 25 (tie). This week: Saturday at North Carolina
State (ESPN2, noon). Last week: Beat Boston College 31-13.

25. Mississippi (8-3)

Points: 165. Previous ranking: Not ranked. This week: Saturday at Mississippi
State. Last week: Beat then-No. 10 LSU 25-23.

Dropped out: No. 14 Wisconsin (8-3, lost to Northwestern 33-31); No. 17 Stanford
(7-4, lost to California 34-28).

Others receiving votes: California (8-3) 149; Wisconsin (8-3) 123; Stanford
(7-4) 58; Navy (8-3) 50; West Virginia (7-3) 30; Central Michigan (9-2) 27;
Arkansas (7-4) 17; Temple (9-2) 17; Arizona (6-4) 15; Northwestern (8-4) 13;
Nevada (8-3) 12; Texas Tech (7-4) 12; Auburn (7-4) 9; Troy (8-3) 2; Kentucky
(7-4) 1; Missouri (7-4) 1; South Florida (7-3) 1.

The USA TODAY Board of Coaches is made up of 59 head coaches at Bowl Subdivision
schools. All are members of the American Football Coaches Association.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              726 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                             April 21, 2006, Friday

'The rankings game';
WVU's neglect harms its law school

BYLINE: Michelle S. Maxwell

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P5A

LENGTH: 356 words


STUDENTS at West Virginia University's College of Law were shocked to find that
their school had plummeted to a fourth-tier ranking in the most recent edition
of U.S. News & World Report.

Every year, the magazine lists law school rankings based on a wide variety of
criteria such as student-teacher ratio, class size and incoming grade point
averages and LSAT scores.

Despite repeated meetings between students and administrators concerning some of
the very factors outlined above, WVU's College of Law has continued to plummet
in these rankings, falling from a second-tier school in 2001 to third tier in
2002, to end up in the fourth tier as of April 1.

Clearly this dismal ranking is a direct result of university neglect. Over the
years, there has been a dramatic increase in the student-faculty ratio, and the
university has hijacked three tenured positions away from the College of Law
faculty in the last decade. While one of these has been returned this week, what
happened to the other two?

Over the last several years, WVU has delighted in the accomplishments of its
athletic teams on a national stage while over the same period its oldest
professional school has come to be considered among the worst in the nation.

The current situation has led students at the College of Law to question why, if
we demand such excellence from our sports teams, we are willing to accept such
apparent mediocrity from the law school at the state's flagship university.
While many in the current administration insist that "the rankings game"
reflects little on the quality of education that the students receive or the
caliber of students the school attracts, one would be hard-pressed to suggest
that poor rankings and a dismal national reputation would have little effect on
the quality of athletes attracted to the university's sports teams.

We students of the College of Law believe we attend an excellent law school.
However, we question whether the latest fourth-tier rating is a "one-time slip"
as the administration claims, or a larger-scale indicator that someone has
dropped the ball.

Maxwell is president of the law school's class of 2006.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Charleston Newspapers


                              727 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 19, 2017 Tuesday

U.S. News Ranks Elmhurst 3rd in Midwest for Undergraduate Teaching

LENGTH: 561  words



Elmhurst: Elmhurst College has issued the following news release:
U.S. News & World Report, which publishes the nation's best-known college
rankings, places Elmhurst College third in the Midwest this year among colleges
and universities known for the strength of their undergraduate teaching.


The Undergraduate Teaching category becomes the fourth in which Elmhurst has
earned top-tier status, according to U.S. News & World Report's Best Colleges
rankings for 2018. The other categories are Best Regional Universities, Best
Value and Best Colleges for Veterans, all in the Midwest.
In the Best Regional Universities category, Elmhurst ranks No. 11 this year out
of 165 colleges and universities across the Midwest that provide a full range of
undergraduate majors and some graduate programs. In the Best Value category, the
College ranks No. 13 among colleges and universities that offer the best bang
for the tuition buck. Only schools that rank in or near the top half of their
U.S. News Best Colleges category were evaluated for a Best Value ranking because
U.S. News considers the most significant values to be among colleges that
perform well academically.
The College moved up a spot in the Best Colleges for Veterans category, from No.
10 last year to No. 9 this year. This category tells military veterans and
active-duty service members which top-ranked schools in the Midwest offer
benefits that help make a college education more affordable. To be ranked, a
school had to be in the top half of its U.S. News Best Colleges category, be
certified for the GI Bill, participate in the Yellow Ribbon Program, and have
enrolled a minimum of 20 veterans and active service members, or a critical
mass, in the 2016-2017 academic year.
This year marks the first time Elmhurst College has taken a top spot in the
Undergraduate Teaching category. To compile that ranking, U.S. News asked
academic experts to identify peer schools where the faculty has an unusually
strong commitment to undergraduate teaching. Elmhurst was cited third most often
by college presidents, provosts and admission deans who were asked to nominate
up to 10 schools in their U.S. News ranking category.
Time and again, current and prospective students, as well as high school
guidance counselors and peer institutions, cite Elmhurst College's faculty as
one of the institution's most distinctive hallmarks. With a faculty-to-student
ratio of 14 to 1, Elmhurst is known as a place where faculty are both teachers
and mentors. Faculty members include Grammy Award winners, Fulbright scholars,
and former executives and industry professionals. Many involve their students in
research, case study, performance and other opportunities considered exceptional
at the undergraduate level.
"At Elmhurst College we pride ourselves on our faculty members--their passion
for teaching and their commitment to our students' success. They personify what
we do and why we do it, and our students are the beneficiaries," said Elmhurst
College President Troy D. VanAken. "The U.S. News rankings are a great
reinforcement by our institutional peers of something we've always known. I
congratulate the faculty and the rest of the Elmhurst College community on this
latest recognition."
 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              728 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                           September 15, 2014 Monday

Loras, Clarke, UW-P ranked in '2015 Best Colleges' publication

BYLINE: Telegraph Herald

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 123 words


Loras College once again garnered the 11th spot, in a tie, among regional
Midwest colleges in U.S. News & World Report "2015 Best Colleges" rankings.

This year's installment offers data on nearly 1,800 schools. Two other local
institutions received rankings.

Clarke University placed 17th for the third year in the Regional Colleges
(Midwest) category. University of Wisconsin-Platteville tied for 80th in the
Regional Universities (Midwest) category. Last year, it ranked 72nd.

In addition, Loras earned a sixth ranking and Clarke a ninth ranking in Best
Values. Schools in the top half of their categories for Best Colleges were
considered for the Best Value list.

The "2015 Best Colleges" rankings are available at www.usnews.com/colleges.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              729 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                 The Tribune-Democrat (Johnstown, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 22, 2009 Saturday

UPJ moves to top tier in U.S.News rankings

BYLINE: Tribune-Democrat, Johnstown, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 309 words


Aug. 22--Pitt-Johnstown again has been named a Best Baccalaureate College
(northern region) by U.S.News & World Report's America's Best Colleges 2010. The
U.S.News & World Report rankings are considered to be the most influential
ranking system in higher education.

Pitt-Johnstown moved into the top tier of baccalaureate colleges after being
ranked in the third tier last year. Ranking factors include freshman retention
rates, student-to-faculty ratio, graduation rates, alumni giving, class size and
peer assessments. The Johnstown campus is the only one in the Pitt system to be
ranked in the top tier.

"This ranking is one more indicator of our overall institutional excellence,
including the dedication of our faculty and staff, the quality and efforts of
our students and alumni, and the strong support of our community," University
President Jem Spectar said.

Pitt-Johnstown was named a Best Northeastern College (2010) by the Princeton
Review and has earned attention for programs, including the 100 Days-100%
Initiative, the RealWorld Action Program and the MountainCat Veterans Program.

"As pleased as we are about this very prestigious ranking, we are not relenting
in our quest for a new dimension of excellence," Spectar said.

"Even in this challenging environment, we continue to pay close attention to the
imperative of quality, and are pleased to see that the fine work of our people
is being noticed far and wide."

To see more of The Tribune-Democrat or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.tribune-democrat.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Tribune-Democrat,
Johnstown, Pa. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090822-JO-UPJ-moves-to-top-tier-in-U-S-News-rankings-0822

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JO


                      Copyright 2009 The Tribune-Democrat


                              730 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 16, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SCHOOLS;
Where'd You Graduate? Don't Ask

BYLINE:  By DEBRA NUSSBAUM

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1142 words


WHO'S Number One?

There was a time when that question could easily be answered in public and
private high schools across the state. But today, many are choosing to drop
class ranking altogether.

For one thing, some high school counselors say there is no fair way to compile
such a list because of the variety of curriculums like advanced placement
courses and special senior year programs. Others educators contend that ranking
seniors can harm some students more than it helps them in today's high-stakes
college competition.For now, the state Department of Education does not have a
policy on ranking.

"More schools are taking ranking off the transcript," said Marty Mooney,
director of college counseling at the Peddie School in Hightstown that -- like
most private schools -- does not rank students. "It can be really arbitrary in a
small group of kids. Rankings also sort of put kids at odds with each other."

Moreover, class ranking is not as important to college admissions officers today
as it was even a decade ago. In a survey conducted last year by the National
Association for College Admission Counseling and made public last month, only 35
percent of the 560 admissions officers who responded did not consider class rank
very important. By comparison, 75 percent of the respondents said grades in
college prep courses were of considerable importance, and 57 percent said the
same about standardized admission tests.

"Over the last 10 years, it has really gone down as an admission factor," said
David Hawkins, the group's director of public policy.

While admissions counselors at Rutgers have not kept track of the numbers, they
said they had noticed that fewer schools were disclosing rank. Furthermore, said
Sandra Lanman, a spokeswoman for the university, there is not a "negative
impact" on students who were not ranked.

The association survey also found that of 740 public and private high schools
across the state, 55 percent still ranked seniors, while 45 percent did not. A
closer look showed that 78 percent of the private schools did not rank their
seniors, while only 10 percent of the public high schools did not.

But that, too, may be changing.

For instance, high schools in Montclair and West Windsor-Plainsboro stopped
ranking students 10 years ago -- though it still places them in a percentile.
The Cherry Hill School District is considering dropping rankings at its two high
schools. Officials in the Maplewood-South Orange district cannot remember when
it ever did.

"It's a sticky question for secondary schools," said James Nolan, a former
admissions director at the University of Pennsylvania who now counsels college
-bound students in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. "They want to do the right thing
by their kids. Some colleges care."

In most cases, Mr. Nolan said, high schools that do not rank seniors provide
colleges with a detailed profile of the school and of grade distribution to
provide an idea of where students stand. "Schools are saying, 'We want to know
how you have done in relation to your peers."'

Glen Ridge High School,--which has historically had small graduating classes of
80 to 90 seniors, phased out ranking four years ago because administrators felt
that it was unfair to its students.

"We try to provide alternative ways to assess a student," said Bill Indek,
guidance program leader at Glen Ridge. "Instead, like many other high schools,
the school provides grade distribution information that helps admissions
directors get an idea of where a student would fall in the pack. "

In fact, Mr. Indek said that when he attended a program about college admission
at Princeton last year, counselors talked about grades and test scores, and
there was no emphasis on class ranking.

At Haddonfield Memorial High School, whose graduating classes average about 150
students -- with 96 to 98 percent going on to higher education -- class ranking
was dropped in the late 1990's, said Don Gorecki, the coordinator of the
school's counseling department, because many high-performing students were being
harmed by it.

"It essentially worked to our disadvantage," he said. "It becomes a convenient
mechanism for admissions counselors to make an arbitrary decision. The
difference between 4, 5 and 8 is negligible."

In addition, Mr. Gorecki said, there was concern that students could beat the
system by taking easier electives. And students who could afford private
tutoring at $50 to $75 an hour had an advantage over those who could not.

"It becomes gamemanship," he said. "How can I jockey? How can I maneuver?"

Annis Whitlow, a graduate student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
graduated second in her class at Haddonfield Memorial High School in 1997 and
went to Yale as an undergraduate.

"I think it can be problematical when it's very competitive," Ms. Whitlow said.

On the other hand, she said she thought that her No. 2 ranking helped her get
into Yale, where she was competing against students from prestigious private
schools.

David Prutow, the director of guidance for the West-Windsor Plainsboro School
District, said that while class ranking might help a few students, others
suffered.

"We send 90 percent of our kids to four-year colleges," said Mr. Prutow, whose
disrtrict has two high schools with graduating classes of about 350 to 400
students each year. "We want to put our kids in the best position for the school
of their choice. Your second decile kids really get hurt."

Though a handful of parents criticized the move to drop rankings, he said," he
said. "it's a non-issue in our district now."

At Montclair High School, Brenda S. Williams, the director of guidance,
explained, class ranking was virtually eliminated. Like other high schools in
the state, it will disclose class ranking for military academies or if a
scholarship is based on rank, though they are not made public.

There are holdouts, however. Cinnaminson High School still ranks students, said
Charles Black, a counselor there, because there was the sense that it helped
students compete their prep school peers. Last year, about 56 percent of the
graduates went to four-year colleges, and 33.5 went to two-year schools.

"Generally, we think it helps our students along with the combination of classes
they take," Mr. Black said. "Sometimes I feel for the kids because they are so
aware of rank. The quest for No. 1 and 2 is important."

Megan Knowlton, a senior at Cinnaminson who is ranked No. 3 in her class, put it
this way: "Right now I feel it gives a competitive edge. Part of me likes it
because it makes me work harder."

Ms. Knowlton, who has applied to such colleges as Loyola, Dickinson and Catholic
University, has already been offered a scholarship at Ramapo College.

"They see the ranking on your application and put you in a whole different
pile," she said. "It definitely makes a difference with scholarships."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Annis Whitlow, who graduated second in her class in Haddonfield,
attended Yale and is currently a graduate student at M.I.T., said, "I think it
can be problematical when it's very competitive." (Michael Quann for The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              731 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             June 22, 2013 Saturday

Touts hand out fake college ranking leaflets

BYLINE: Ashok Pradhan

SECTION: BHUBANESWAR

LENGTH: 414 words


BHUBANESWAR: Beware of brokers distributing leaflets with fake college ranks if
you are visiting a nodal centres of Odisha joint entrance examination (OJEE).
TOI has found out that brokers are misleading engineering aspirants and their
parents by distributing fabricated lists of engineering colleges.

"These middlemen are circulating fake leaflets among students and guardians at
various nodal centres of OJEE during the ongoing counselling," Odisha Private
Engineering College Association (OPECA) secretary Binod Dash said.

While some colleges which have come up in the past one or two years, and are
struggling to get students, have been put on the top of the list, established
ones with good track records of placement and infrastructure have been pushed to
the bottom. "It is highly unethical and a very dirty trick. Some colleges have
brought out the college ranks to mislead students to secure admission in their
own institutions. We have requested the technical education department to
publish a public notice against such an illegal practice," Dash said.

In the competition to get maximum students, colleges are pursuing various
unethical strategies. "We have come across colleges which have deputed dummy
students at the nodal centres for encouraginf applicants to go for that
particular college" BPUT student union leader Samapta Kumar Mohanty said.

The attempts to attract maximum students has gained momentum as colleges
estimate that around 25,000 of the total 44,000 BTech seats may remain vacant
this year.

OJEE authorities said they were struggling to deal with the middlemen. "We
identified two of them trying to brain-wash students for certain colleges and
removed them from the OJEE nodal centre at Gandamunda at on Thursday. It is not
easy to identify them as they are posing as students or guardians. We request
student and parents to ignore anyone trying to influence them, and use their own
judgment while choosing colleges," OJEE secretary Priyabrata Sahoo said.

Adding to the confusion of college ranking, students too have published ranks of
colleges. "Our ranking is not influenced by any commercial consideration.
Colleges are selected through online voting," said student leader Samapta Kumar
Mohanty. The rank is not static. It changes with every vote, he added.

Neither the Biju Patnaik University of Technology (BPUT) nor the government has
published any official ranking of colleges, OJEE secretary Priyabrata Sahoo
clarified.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              732 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            March 14, 2015 Saturday

UA's Culverhouse MBA Program Moves Up 16 Spots in National Rankings

LENGTH: 320  words

DATELINE: Tuscaloosa


The University of Alabama has issued the following news release:

The University of Alabama's Culverhouse College of Commerce/Manderson Graduate
School of Business MBA program rose 16 spots from last year, landing at number
58 in the 2016 U.S. News rankings.

The overall rankings include private and public schools and include 126 schools
with accredited MBA programs. The College ranks 31st among public schools and is
fifth in the SEC, up one spot from last year.
Bidgood Hall, Culverhouse College of Commerce

Bidgood Hall, Culverhouse College of Commerce

"Ranking in the top 12.5 percent of all MBA programs is good news for
Culverhouse and our graduate school," said Dr. J. Michael Hardin, dean,
Culverhouse College of Commerce. "Our peer ranking continues to rise. Among SEC
schools, we are third in recruiter ratings and GMAT scores. Even the slightest
change in any of the metrics impacts a school's rankings, so we will continue to
build on a strong MBA program, and my goal is to see us rank in the top 25
overall."

The placement rates for students upon graduation and three months after
graduation were 65 percent and 91 percent respectively.

The annual rankings are based on seven core measurements with each carrying a
different weight and include average starting salaries for the MBA graduate
(14%), school reported statistics GMAT (16.25%) and GPA (7.5%), recruiter
rankings (15%), peer rankings (25%) (surveys of deans), acceptance rates (1.25%)
and placement rates at graduation (7%) and three months after graduation (14%).

A total of 454 public and private schools with master's programs in business
accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business were
surveyed. A total of 385 responded to the survey. Of those, 126 provided enough
data needed to calculate the rankings.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              733 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            March 14, 2015 Saturday

UA's Culverhouse MBA Program Moves Up 16 Spots in National Rankings

LENGTH: 320  words

DATELINE: Tuscaloosa


The University of Alabama has issued the following news release:

The University of Alabama's Culverhouse College of Commerce/Manderson Graduate
School of Business MBA program rose 16 spots from last year, landing at number
58 in the 2016 U.S. News rankings.

The overall rankings include private and public schools and include 126 schools
with accredited MBA programs. The College ranks 31st among public schools and is
fifth in the SEC, up one spot from last year.
Bidgood Hall, Culverhouse College of Commerce

Bidgood Hall, Culverhouse College of Commerce

"Ranking in the top 12.5 percent of all MBA programs is good news for
Culverhouse and our graduate school," said Dr. J. Michael Hardin, dean,
Culverhouse College of Commerce. "Our peer ranking continues to rise. Among SEC
schools, we are third in recruiter ratings and GMAT scores. Even the slightest
change in any of the metrics impacts a school's rankings, so we will continue to
build on a strong MBA program, and my goal is to see us rank in the top 25
overall."

The placement rates for students upon graduation and three months after
graduation were 65 percent and 91 percent respectively.

The annual rankings are based on seven core measurements with each carrying a
different weight and include average starting salaries for the MBA graduate
(14%), school reported statistics GMAT (16.25%) and GPA (7.5%), recruiter
rankings (15%), peer rankings (25%) (surveys of deans), acceptance rates (1.25%)
and placement rates at graduation (7%) and three months after graduation (14%).

A total of 454 public and private schools with master's programs in business
accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business were
surveyed. A total of 385 responded to the survey. Of those, 126 provided enough
data needed to calculate the rankings.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              734 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Duluth News-Tribune (Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 13, 2012 Monday

BRIEF: Minnesota Duluth No. 3 in college hockey power rankings

BYLINE: Kevin Pates, Duluth News Tribune, Minn.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 168 words


Feb. 13--The Bulldogs are No. 1 in today's Inside College Hockey Power Rankings
-- the CCHA-leading Ferris State Bulldogs, that is. Minnesota Duluth is at No.
3. The rankings are here.

The top three teams in the WCHA -- Minnesota, UMD and Denver -- are separated by
two points with three series (six games) remaining. They do not meet each other
again in the regular season. Denver was 2-0 vs. Minnesota. UMD was 1-0-1 vs.
Denver. Minnesota was 2-0 vs. UMD.

The remaining schedule: UMD, at Minnesota State-Mankato, home with Colorado
College, at St. Cloud State. Minnesota, home with Bemidji State, at
Nebraska-Omaha, home with with Wisconsin. Denver, at Wisconsin, home with North
Dakota, at Nebraska-Omaha.

Other teams certainly still are in the race -- Colorado College, Nebraska-Omaha
and North Dakota.

Read more at Kevin Pates' blog, Rink & Run.

___ (c)2012 the Duluth News Tribune (Duluth, Minn.) Visit the Duluth News
Tribune (Duluth, Minn.) at www.duluthnewstribune.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120213-DU-BRF-Minnesota-Duluth-No-3-in-college-hockey-power-rankings
-0213-20120213

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DU


                       Copyright 2012 Duluth News-Tribune


                              735 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            March 16, 2017 Thursday

MCOPS tops QS World University Rankings

BYLINE: Kevin Mendonsa

SECTION: MANGALURU

LENGTH: 259 words


MANIPAL: Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences (MCOPS) ranked No.1 in India
by National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) of the Union Human Resource
Ministry in 2016 and now found a place in QS World University Rankings of
2017."It is a remarkable achievement. We have always been proud of our college,"
said Dr H Vinod Bhat, vice chancellor Manipal University."We are extremely happy
that pharmacy and pharmacology stream of Manipal University has featured in the
QS World University Ranking by subject 2017. This is the first time that Manipal
University's subject stream is getting into world rankings, and it is a very
high entry at 251-300 range.

I am sure we will see more subjects offered by this university like dentistry,
medicine and engineering also featuring in the world rankings in months to
come," Vinod added.The rankings are based upon academic reputation, employer
reputation and research impact. "Coming after the No.1 rank in India by NIRF,
the QS Ranking is a shot in the arm for MCOPS. As a premier institution under
Manipal University, MCOPS has been in the forefront of education and research,"
said Dr Mallikarjuna Rao, principal of the Pharmacy College."The university's
support for infrastructural development and the several grants for research from
government and non-government funding agencies has helped in the growth of
MCOPS. The students and staff of the college are excited about the new status of
the college. Dr Rao added, "We will work assiduously to move up the ranking."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              736 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                           September 10, 2013 Tuesday
                          SPORTS FINAL REPLATE EDITION

ALL CLASS Princeton tops U.S. News college rankings

BYLINE: BY BEN CHAPMAN NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 429 words


PRINCETON WON bragging rights as the country's top college for 2014 in the
annual university rankings from U.S. News and World Report, released Tuesday.

U.S. News tweaked its methodology slightly for its latest listing of the
nation's top institutions of higher learning, but the results were similar to
previous years.

"We provide information for students and parents to help them look for schools
and compare schools," said U.S. News Director of Data Research Bob Morse. "That
hasn't changed."

Princeton tied with Harvard for the top spot in 2013 but edged out its Ivy
League rival for 2014. Harvard took second place, followed by Yale.

As in 2013, there were 11 colleges ranked in the top 10 for 2014 because of
multiple ties in the rankings.

Nationally, the same schools are on the top 10 list in 2014 as in 2013.

Among city colleges, Columbia took fourth place for 2014, New York University
came in at 32nd and Yeshiva followed at 47th place. Fordham came in 57th.

For 2014, U.S. News' number crunchers placed more emphasis on measures of
student outcomes including graduation rates.

Tuition for each of the top schools was more than $40,000 per year.

The top-ranked school for 2014 also had the lowest tuition of the top colleges.

Princeton's tuition and fees are $40,170 for the 2013-14 school year. Of the top
11 schools, Columbia had the highest tuition and fees, at $49,138.

U.S. News' college rankings include data on nearly 1,800 colleges.

Eligible schools are ranked on up to 16 different factors, each weighted for
importance.

The report features information on the universities and colleges including
tuition, acceptance rates, class sizes, graduation rates and average debt of
graduates.

Researchers also compiled lists of the best liberal arts colleges, the best
value schools and up-and-coming schools.

The Best Colleges 2014 edition also includes rankings on the best undergraduate
business programs and the best undergraduate engineering programs.

bchapman@nydailynews.com

To view the rankings, visit the site usnews.com/college.

HEAD OF THE CLASS

1. Princeton University

2. Harvard University

3. Yale University

4. Columbia University (N.Y.)

5. Stanford University

5. University of Chicago

7. Duke University

7. Massachusetts Institute of Technology

7. University of Pennsylvania

10. California Institute of Technology

10. Dartmouth College

OTHER N.Y. SCHOOLS

16. Cornell University

32. New York University

47. Yeshiva University

57.. Fordham University

62. Syracuse Univ. (below)

82. Stony Brook University

86. SUNY college of Environmental Science and Forestry

U.S. News Best Colleges 2014

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NO. 4 Columbia University was the top New York school on U.S. News'
2014 list. ROBERT SABO NO. 1 Princeton University (above) edged Harvard for No.
1 spot.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Daily News, L.P.


                              737 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 11, 2017 Saturday

College In Top 20 Schools for Environment on Wall Street Journal/Times Higher
Education Rankings

LENGTH: 212  words



New York: Nyack college has issued the following news release:
The second edition of the Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education U.S.
College Rankings has been released. Editorial Director Phil Baty writes in a
cover letter accompanying the publication, "Rather than rewarding colleges for
educating "better" students, we created a ranking that rewards colleges for
educating students better."
Again Nyack College is on the 2018 list of top 20 colleges and universities for
environment and has moved from the #17 spot, shared with five other institutions
in 2017, to #13 shared with three other institutions. Nyack has also moved up
from the 800+ level ranking to the 600 level.


The four "pillars" ranked are resources, engagement, outcomes and environment.
In the environment category, a variety of measures of diversity in the student
and faculty population are weighed. Among those factors examined at each
institution are ethnic diversity, economic diversity (the proportion of students
who receive Pell Grants), the proportion of students who are first generation
degree earners and the proportion of international students at the institution.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              738 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 1, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

PITT HEADS LIST AFTER 3 VICTORIES

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 385 words


Pitt, the consensus No.1 team in the preseason rankings, is toprated in The New
York Times's first weekly computer ranking of the college football season.

The undefeated Panthers, who lost support in the two wire-service polls after
beating North Carolina by only 7-6 in their season opener, took The Times's No.1
spot by the largest power-rating margin in the four seasons of the computer
ranking.

Florida, which like Pitt is unbeaten in three games, with victories over Miami
of Florida, Southern Cal and Mississippi State, is No.2, followed by Penn State
and Arizona State.

The big surprise is Boston College, which is fifth and is undefeated with
victories over Texas A&M and Navy and a tie with Clemson, the No.1 team at the
end of last season in The Times's ranking and in the polls of United Press
International and The Associated Press.

This is the highest ranking given to a Boston College team in 40 years by any
form of rating major teams. The Associated Press, in its poll of sports
reporters and broadcasters, ranked Boston College 18th this week, and United
Press International, in its poll of coaches, had the Eagles 16th.

''No.5 will give the team a boost, but it scares me,'' said Jack Bicknell, the
Boston College coach. ''Some teams have been there before and know what it's
like. We're new to this sort of thing.''

Another surprise is San Jose State, 13th in The Times's ranking after three
victories over Pacific-10 Conference teams - Oregon, Oregon State and Stanford.
San Jose is a member of the Pacific Coast Athletic Association.

Pitt, with victories over North Carolina, Florida State and Illinois, was No.1
in this week's U.P.I. poll but second behind Washington in the A.P. poll.
Washington, undefeated with victories over Texas-El Paso, Arizona and Oregon, is
No.19 on the Times's list. Penn State, undefeated with victories over Temple,
Rutgers, Maryland and Nebraska, was third in both wire-service polls this week
after its 27-24 upset of the Cornhuskers.

Informed that his Panthers were top-rated in the computer ranking, Serafino
(Foge) Fazio, the coach, said, ''Beautiful! I'll take the computer. The computer
looks more kindly upon Pitt, I guess.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              739 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                              March 1, 2015 Sunday
                                Bangalore Mirror

'Global rankings of colleges are marketing tools'

BYLINE: Sridhar Vivan

SECTION: OTHERS

LENGTH: 372 words


The general practice when choosing a college overseas or in the country is to
see where it stands in the hierarchy of institutions. But the soon-to-be
president of International Network for Quality Assurance Agencies in Higher
Education (INQAAHE), confirmed what we had always suspected. Dr Jagannath Patil,
43, who takes over the INQAAHE presidency on April 1, told Bangalore Mirror that
rankings were based on parameters that were really marketing tools. Patil
defended his stand saying rankings were usually based on reputational surveys.
"However, none of us know who conducts these surveys and what their expertise
is. Without any record or data, ranking is really drawn on opinion," he said.
Another point of contest for Patil was measuring multi-cultural set-ups. "When
we talk about access to education, I don't think internationalisation of
students or faculty has anything to do with the ranking system," he said.

Patil observed that rankings were proportional to the number of publications by
colleges in journals. "A majority of these publications are mutually beneficial
schemes. Journals charge colleges under various pretexts to publish their
writing," said Patil. Even the HRD ministry affirmed that global ranking
agencies were 'helping' universities improve their standings, he said.

"Experts across the world will tell you that rankings are actually meant to
preserve the monopoly of some institutions year after year," he said. This, he
said, was why we saw some institutions retain top spots while others' rankings
saw dramatic jumps or falls. Patil suggested that for ranking systems to be more
transparent agencies needed to disclose details of people they surveyed, how
they measured reputation and so on. He has assured his first task at the INQAAHE
would be to structure a transparent mechanism and a good alternative to rankings
. "We want to create a global information system with genuine details that
matter to students so they can distinguish trustworthy institutions from dubious
ones." Patil, a Kolhapur native, settled in Bengaluru 12 years ago. He will be
the first Asian and the youngest to head the Barcelona-headquartered INQAAHE, a
worldwide association of over 200 quality assurance organisations.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              740 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                    November 1, 2003 Saturday Final Edition

Many parents take note of school rankings: Widely disputed but keenly read.
Teachers' unions say comparisons unfair

SOURCE: The Gazette

BYLINE: ALLISON LAMPERT

SECTION: News; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 474 words

Parents love it. Many educators hate it.

The annual ranking of Quebec high schools by two conservative think tanks is
lauded for making principals accountable and helping parents choose the best
schools for their kids.

But critics, like teachers' unions, say the ranking - this year's version of
which was made public yesterday - unfairly denigrates schools that can't choose
which students they get.

It's inspired one union to launch a poster campaign this week with the slogan:
"Public education isn't comparable."

Gideon Rosenberg, a newly elected parent commissioner at the English Montreal
School Board, said he feels the report card on 455 Quebec high schools is
unfair. But he acknowledged that many other parents consult the ranking.

"They want a third party to give them an idea if the school is doing well or not
doing well."

A CROP poll published in this month's Actualite magazine - which collaborates
with the ranking's authors - showed that 74 per cent of respondents were in
favour of having a report card on Quebec high schools.

As one example this year shows, a less-than-dazzling ranking can cause high
anxiety at competitive private schools.

An incorrect ranking of 60th place for the Herzliah English high school in
Snowdon was posted on the Montreal Economic Institute's Web site yesterday. In
fact, that ranking should have been attributed to Herzliah's French school; no
ranking is available for the English branch.

Herzliah's director, Sidney Benudiz, said he was afraid that by Monday he'd be
deluged by calls from concerned parents if the news media repeated the error.

"It certainly would have caused damage," Benudiz said.

But no matter how much attention parents pay to the ranking, public schools
maintain the report is misleading. The ranking is based on elements like
provincial exam marks, the percentage of exams failed, and a school's proportion
of students who graduate on time.

By focusing on marks, the report doesn't consider programs that aren't
quantifiable - like the enriched music program at Rosemount High School.

"A school like Rosemount High School has a music program that's second to none -
that's something that makes them unique," said Michael Cohen, a spokesperson for
the English Montreal School Board.

"Yet that isn't reflected in the report."

-----

Quebec's Top 10 High Schools

1. College Jean de Brebeuf Montreal

1. College Jean Eudes Montreal

1. College Regina Assumpta Montreal

1. College Charlemagne Pierrefonds

1. College Jean de la Mennais La Prairie

1. Pensionnat du St. Nom de Marie Outremont

7. College St. Sacrement Terrebonne

8. Ecole d'education internationale St. Hubert

8. Ecole internationale de Montreal (secondaire) Westmount

8. Lower Canada College Montreal alampert@thegazette.canwest.com

On the Web: The ranking is at www.iedm.org

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2003 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              741 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                          September 14, 2011 Wednesday

IWU drops, ISU steady in college rankings

BYLINE: Pantagraph staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 308 words


NORMAL - Illinois State University held steady and Illinois Wesleyan University
dropped slightly in U.S. News & World Report's annual college rankings released
Tuesday.

ISU is ranked 160th in the Best National Universities category, which includes
280 American universities offering undergraduate degrees, master's and doctoral
degrees. It was ranked 156th in 2010. Among public universities, ISU ranks 85th.

The magazine doesn't rank all 280 U.S. universities, said ISU spokesman Jay
Groves. This year, it ranked 202 of those schools, up five from 2010.

"We held steady based on their methodology," said Groves, noting ISU improved in
several areas, including graduation rates that rose from 69 percent in last
year's ranking to 71 percent this year. The percentage of classes with 20 or
fewer students grew by 1 percent this year, to 32 percent of classes.

"Any rankings system conveys only a small piece of the Illinois State picture,"
said President Al Bowman. "As always, we will continue to make progress in areas
that are closely connected to our core teaching and learning values."

Illinois Wesleyan ranked 71st among the nation's liberal arts colleges, a drop
from 62nd in 2010. Eureka College ranked 40th among regional colleges, down from
29th a year ago.

Factors in rankings

U.S. News & World Report's rankings are based on various factors, including an
undergraduate academic reputation index that is guided by information from high
school counselors as well as college and university presidents, provosts and
deans.

Other factors include student retention, faculty resources, student selectivity,
financial resources, alumni giving and graduation rates.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 The Pantagraph


                              742 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                               September 8, 2016

EDU RAND Rankings out - IIT-I ranked No 1 Engg college in state, DAVV bags 2nd
slot

BYLINE: Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 204  words


Indore: There are no two opinions that Indian Institute of Technology, Indore is
the leading engineering college in Madhya Pradesh. EDU RAND Rankings has
endorsed that fact.

IIT-Indore has been ranked No 1 engineering institution in the state and No 13
best across the country in the rankings released lately.

Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya (DAVV) held second slot in the state and 34th
position in the country.

EDU RAND Rankings, collaboration between EDU, one of India's leading voices in
the education sector and RAND Corporation, USA a world renowned think tank, aim
to provide reliable and impartial information to students facilitating informed
decisions on their part. Exclusively dedicated to engineering colleges the
Rankings have come to be recognised for their credibility and comprehensiveness.
Added to that is its reach to the farthest corners of the country and access to
students who are normally beyond the focus of most media campaigns.

The EDU RAND Rankings 2015 rated over 800 colleges from all over the country.
The rankings take into account factors such as faculty qualifications at a
college, industry readiness of its students, research productivity of the
institution and the demand for seats at the college.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2016 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              743 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                  The Sylva Herald & Ruralite (North Carolina)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                  July 7, 2011

Southwestern again receives exceptional rating from state

BYLINE: The Sylva Herald & Ruralite staff

LENGTH: 539  words


Southwestern Community College has been rated "exceptional" by the N.C.
Community College System for the third time in four years.

In the just-released report, SCC is one of 12 of the state's 58 community
colleges to receive this ranking.

The ranking is the N.C. Community College System's method of tracking the
performance of community colleges. Mandated by the state, the report is based on
eight performance measures - progress of basic skills students, passing rates on
licensure and certification examinations, performance of college transfer
students, passing rates of students in developmental courses, success rates of
developmental students in subsequent college-level courses, satisfaction of
program completers and non-completers, curriculum student retention, and client
satisfaction with customized training.

N.C. Community College System President Scott Ralls said SCC's exceptional
ranking indicates the college met or exceeded all eight performance measures.

Southwestern Interim President Janet Burnette said the rankings come as no
surprise to her.

"On many levels, Southwestern ranks at the top of the 12 exceptional colleges,"
she said, pointing out SCC's passing rates on licensing and certification. "Many
of our programs have a 100 percent pass rate of students taking their license or
certification exams for the first time. Among these are radiography, physical
therapist assistant, practical nursing and emergency medical science paramedics.
You can't get a better track record than that. "In the region, we recognize how
good our programs are, but it is a real honor for our programs to be recognized
statewide, too. It also reinforces our national Top 10 USA Community College
ranking."

Burnette said another area where Southwestern excelled is the performance of
transferring students to a UNC System university. "Over 94 percent of our
students earn a grade-point average of 2.0 or higher when they transfer. Our
students perform better than those students who started in the UNC System."

The report also measured the percentage of graduates "very satisfied" or
"satisfied" with the overall quality of the college. "Here again we excelled,"
Burnette said. "Our graduates said they were 100-perCent satisfied, or even very
satisfied, with their educational experience at SCC."

The school also received a 100-percent satisfaction ranking from those who
received customized training and business and industry support.

"With our business and industry training we strive to be an asset and partner in
supporting our local economy and helping bolster the employment rates," said
Sonja Haynes, director of SCC's business and institutional development.
"Training is the key to growth."

"Over the past three years, our community colleges have enrolled more students
than ever before and have stretched limited dollars to meet the demand," said
Ralls. "Yet, even under the strain of increased enrollment and reduced funding,
we have continued to focus our efforts on student success and completion. The
outcomes of these performance measures demonstrate the quality of education and
training N.C. Community Colleges provide in a time when North Carolina needs it
most."

For more information, visit www.nccommunity-colleges.edu.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Accomplishment

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SYV

                      Copyright 2011 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
       Copyright 2011 The Sylva Herald & Ruralite(Sylva, North Carolina)


This document could not be formatted for delivery. If your delivery request
included other documents, they completed successfully.

                              745 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Towson Times, Md

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 15, 2012 Tuesday

Three Towson-area high schools among state's best in annual US News ranking

BYLINE: Jon Meoli, Towson Times, Md.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 370 words


May 15--The George Washington Carver Center for Arts and Technology led three
Towson-area high schools ranked among the top 15 in Maryland -- as rated by the
most recent rankings by US News & World Report.

Carver, which was ranked the 11th-best school in Maryland, was the
second-highest ranked school in Baltimore County, behind Eastern Tech (No. 9
statewide). Carver was also ranked No. 242 nationally.

Dulaney High School checked in at No. 13 in the state and No. 264 in the
country, and it slotted one spot behind Carver in the Baltimore County Public
Schools rankings.

Towson High School was ranked as the 14th-best school in the state and No. 267
in the country. Last year, Towson was honored as a national Blue Ribbon School
by theU.S. Department of Education.

The survey, published May 8 on the US News website, considered a number of
factors including Advanced Placement performance, overall student performance
and "proficiency on state exams among typically underperforming subgroups."

The report also included a "college readiness" ranking that included students'
scores on "exams to earn college credit and (who) demonstrate success at college
-level course work."

For Carver, US News said 95 percent of students are proficient in English
studies; 96 percent in algebra and had a 57 rating for college readiness.

US News noted that for the entire school district, the average is 85 percent for
English; 86 percent for Algebra and a 25.2 rating for college readiness.

Dulaney High's rankings in those categories is 96 percent for English
proficiency; 96 percent for algebra and 55.1 ranking for college readiness.

The rating for Towson High was 98 percent for English proficiency; 98 percent
for algebra and a ranking of 55.0 for college readiness.

In all three schools, the participation rate for Advanced Placement classes is
above 60 percent.

Four other county schools were ranked in the top-50 for Maryland: Hereford High
School (No. 22), Catonsville High School (No. 25), Western Tech (No. 39), and
Loch Raven High School (No. 49).

___ (c)2012 Towson Times (Towson, Md.) Visit Towson Times (Towson, Md.) at
www.baltimoresun.com/explore/baltimorecounty/publications/towson-times
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20120515-1TW-Three-Towson-area-high-schools-among-state-s-best-in-annual-US-News
-ranking-0515-20120515

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1TW


                          Copyright 2012 Towson Times

                              746 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                           September 10, 2013 Tuesday

BYU and Utah rise in new U.S. News college rankings

BYLINE: Jamshid Ghazi Askar Deseret News

LENGTH: 340 words


PROVO ? BYU and the University of Utah enjoyed modest gains, while Utah State
University experienced a significant slip in the 2014 rankings of the best
colleges in America released Tuesday U.S. News & World Report. Within the
National Universities category BYU ranked 62nd and Utah checked in at 121st ?

up six and four spots, respectively, from last year. Conversely, Utah State slid
16 places to 190th. Since the 2011 rankings were released three years ago BYU
has risen 13 spots on the National Universities list ? giving the Cougars the
15th-biggest gain over that span, according to a Washington Post analysis. The
Post also determined Utah State suffered the fourth-largest drop for a National
Universities institution by falling 20 spots during that time. In the new
rankings for Regional Universities in the West, Westminster College remained
entrenched at No. 22 ? the identical result as last year. Within that same
category Southern Utah University and Weber State University appeared on the
2014 rankings at 71st and 80th, respectively, after being tied with each other
for 72nd a year ago. BYU-Idaho ranked 13th and BYU-Hawaii 18th among Regional
Colleges in the West, a classification in which Utah Valley University and Dixie
State University failed to register a ranking. The annual U.S. News & World
Report list ranks colleges based on selectivity, retention and graduation rates.
Princeton University edged Harvard University and Yale University for the
honorific of being the best college in the United States, while the University
of California-Berkeley ranked as the top public school. ?U.S. News tweaked its
formula this year, giving more emphasis to college graduation rates and less to
the high school class standing of incoming students,? the Washington Post?s Nick
Anderson reported Monday. ?The magazine?s methodology also factors in surveys of
academic reputation and data on retention rates, college entrance test scores,
financial resources and faculty resources, among other things.? Email:
jaskar@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

                              747 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 23, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Best' Colleges List

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 160 words


To the Editor:

" 'Best' List for Colleges by U.S. News Is Under Fire" (Business Day, Aug. 20)
cites criticism of the methodology U.S. News & World Report uses in its yearly
rankings of colleges. What bears mentioning is that in the 18 years that we have
ranked colleges within their peer groups, the methodology has been continually
refined, based on a continuing dialogue with college presidents and admissions
deans.

The criteria included in the rankings process, as a result of that dialogue,
have increased to the current number of 16 different variables.

Even those who have taken issue with the rankings agree that the methodology is
clearly disclosed. A parent or student wishing to place more or less emphasis on
any of the criteria included in the rankings need only visit the magazine's Web
site and weigh the data in ways more useful and appropriate for their own
college search.

BRIAN DUFFY
Editor
U.S. News & World Report
Washington, Aug. 21, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company

                              748 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Brunswick News (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            January 20, 2017 Friday

CCGA ranked among best online degree programs

BYLINE: Lauren McDonald, The Brunswick News, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 360 words


Jan. 20--College of Coastal Georgia has been ranked among the best online
bachelor's degree programs in the country.

In its 2017 Best Online Bachelor's Programs rankings, released Jan. 10, U.S.
News and World Report placed CCGA in the top 10 low-cost online baccalaureate
programs for out-of-state students.

Coastal placed second among 133 ranked public schools, ahead of Georgia Southern
University and Georgia College & State University.

"This designation recognizes the importance of meeting students where they are
but also acknowledges the need to expand the learning process beyond the
traditional classroom setting," said Tracy Pellett, CCGA's provost and vice
president of academic affairs.

The ranking factored in out-of-state cost per credit, credits needed to graduate
and out-of-state total program cost.

"By reducing the cost of going to college through our many cost-saving
initiatives, we have made seeking a post-secondary degree affordable to students
both within and outside of our region, but we have also opened viable pathways
for students who can't attend our college physically," Pellett said.

Last year, U.S. News and World Report named CCGA one of the best regional public
colleges in the South, ranking the college at No. 7 among public state and
regional colleges in 12 Southern states.

CCGA was also listed last year as one of the Best Online Colleges in Georgia by
OnlineColleges.com, which ranked CCGA at No. 5 out of more than 50 four-year
colleges and universities in Georgia for its online bachelor's degrees and
programs.

Greg Aloia, president of CCGA, said this recent ranking underscore's CCGA's
efforts to make higher education attainable to all.

"Not only does this new ranking by the U.S. News and World Report affirm our
course offerings are accessible to all of our students and throughout the
region, it underlines the extraordinary efforts of our dedicated team of
faculty, staff and foundation members who are working to help our students be
successful," Aloia said.

___ (c)2017 The Brunswick News (Brunswick, Ga.) Visit The Brunswick News
(Brunswick, Ga.) at www.thebrunswicknews.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170120-GE-CCGA-ranked-among-best-online-degree-programs-0120-20170120

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GE


                       Copyright 2017 The Brunswick News

                              749 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                           August 31, 2005 Wednesday
                                CAROLINA EDITION

USC AIKEN AGAIN TOPS MAGAZINE'S SCHOOLS LIST

BYLINE: By Sandi Martin South Carolina Bureau

SECTION: SC NEIGHBORS; Pg. O01

LENGTH: 354 words


For the third time in four years, the University of South Carolina Aiken is tops
as far as the U.S. News & World Report is concerned.

School officials recently learned of USC Aiken's top position among public
comprehensive colleges in the South in the magazine's annual school rankings.

Dr. Tom Hallman, USC Aiken's chancellor, said the ranking enhances the
university's reputation.

"Many times, students don't pay a great deal of attention to these rankings, but
parents do," Dr. Hallman said. "So being an institution that draws probably 80
percent of our students from the local area - this region - being rated in the
top three for this number of years has enabled us to be a hero in our own
hometown, giving us some credibility.

"But I should also say that nobody should come to USC Aiken because of rankings.
But they should take a look at us because of the rankings."

Part of the magazine's guide, America's Best Colleges, the rankings are based in
part on graduation rate, class size, alumni donations and surveys.

There are different categories used in the rankings, the primary one being the
college's mission. In USC Aiken's category - public comprehensive colleges in
the South - the magazine includes schools that emphasize undergraduate education
while offering a few graduate degrees.

USC Aiken has been ranked in the top three every year since 1999. It has been
the top-rated school on three occasions - in 2002, 2003 and this year.

The 2005 rankings, however, are the first time the university has held the top
spot on its own. Previously, USC Aiken had to share the top spot.

This year, the school is ranked ahead of Winston-Salem State University,
Elizabeth City State University and the University of South Carolina Upstate in
the magazine's ratings.

According to the rankings, USC Aiken has a 70 percent freshman retention rate
and a 40 percent average graduation rate.

USC Aiken, on University Parkway, offers undergraduate programs in the arts and
sciences, business administration and education.

Its graduate programs are in psychology and education.

For more information about the university, visit www.usca.edu.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2005 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation

                              750 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             August 5, 2005 Friday
                                  ALL EDITION

COLLEGE POLLSTER? RICHTER CAN'T WAIT;
FORMER UW ATHLETIC DIRECTOR PAT RICHTER IS ONE OF 114 MEMBERS OF THE NEW BCS
POLL.

BYLINE: Andy Baggot Wisconsin State Journal

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 591 words


Former University of Wisconsin athletic director Pat Richter has followed major
college football since he was a kid growing up in Madison, but the upcoming
season might require his greatest sense of focus.

Richter has agreed to participate in a new top-25 ranking, conducted by the
Harris polling service, that will help determine the national champion.

"It keeps you involved," said Richter, a member of the College Football Hall of
Fame who retired as UW athletic director in April 2004. "I can't do much worse
than anybody else."

The Harris Interactive College Football poll will count one-third in the new
Bowl Championship Series formula and will be weighted equally with the USA Today
coaches' ranking and the average of six computer ratings.

The Harris poll, comprised of 114 hand-picked former players, coaches,
administrators and media, replaces the Associated Press media ranking in the BCS
equation. The AP pulled out of the BCS configuration after the 2004 season when
three schools finished unbeaten -- Auburn, Southern California and Utah -- but
only champion USC had access to the national title game.

The Harris poll is similar to the USA Today ranking in that only the results of
the final ballot will be revealed. A major difference between the two, however,
is the Harris ranking will not bother with a preseason poll. The Harris rating
will debut Sept.25, three weeks after the start of the season.

One of the criticisms of the BCS process in 2004 was that Auburn had no chance
to catch USC and Oklahoma -- which lost to the Trojans in the title game --
because the Tigers started the season much lower in the preseason rankings
compiled by the media and coaches.

"I think (the Harris pollsters are) trying to get a little reality here that the
preseason (polls) have no meaning whatsoever. We've proven that many times,"
Richter said.

"Whether that buys you any credibility because you don't come out right away, I
don't know. The fact is that doesn't make a lot of sense and never did."

That sentiment didn't stop the curators of the coaches poll -- UW coach Barry
Alvarez is a participant -- from sticking with its preseason ranking.

"I think the coaches association felt very strongly that their poll, which
they've had for years and years and always had a preseason component, was one
that served as a significant promotion for college football leading into the
season," said Kevin Weiberg, the BCS coordinator and Big 12 Conference
commissioner.

Richter, who has received indications he will be among the voters to make the
cut, was one of more than 300 poll candidates submitted by the various
conference offices. The final 114-member roster -- nearly twice the AP (65) and
coaches (61) voter roles -- will be released later this month.

The Harris voters will represent the 11 NCAA Division I-A leagues and will be
proportional to conferences that automatically qualify for BCS bowls and those
that do not.

Richter, a two-time All-America end for the Badgers, said he will have no
problem being fair.

"You can be objective because you're going to be anonymous until the last week,"
he said. "I'm obviously going to know a little bit more about the Big Ten than
others, but that's probably why they have a geographical mix."

A concern over the Harris poll is that grudges could resurface with some of the
former coaches and they could be reflected in the poll. Richter doesn't discount
that sentiment, but ...

"My grudges are so old that no one's around anymore," he said with a laugh.

Contact Andy Baggot at abaggot@madison.com or 252-6175.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pat Richter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Madison Newspapers, Inc.

                              751 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            November 23, 2015 Monday
                               hyderabad Edition

MHRD's new ranking system irks varsities

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 293 words


At a time when universities in Telangana are struggling to obtain NAAC and other
accreditation, the new National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) of the
ministry of human resource development (MHRD) has irked varsities and
constituent colleges.

The new assessment system by the MHRD has been framed to help students and
parents make an informed choice before choosing an institution for higher
studies. The rankings will be published ahead of next year's admission schedule.
The ranking framework is currently available for universities and colleges
offering engineering, management, architecture, pharmacy courses.

While the registrations for the NIRF is scheduled to begin from Monday onwards,
institutions are in a dilemma over whether the assessment would be in addition
to the evaluation being carried out through exist

ing frameworks. " Although the National Board of Accreditation is sufficient for
assessment of engineering colleges, introduction of NIFR only adds to the
confusion," said a representative of an engineering college.

Having said that, the University Grants Commission recently instructed the
universities and constituent colleges to consider the registration as the top
most priority . However, academicians claim that most of the T universities are
suffering from staff crunch due to which the new ranking system may not be of
any use. "None of the state universities from Telangana have made a mark in any
of the ranking systems accepted worldwide. While there is a severe staff crunch
in most universities, such ranking systems may have no significance at all.The
government should instead strengthen the existing assessment systems," said B
Satyarayana, president of Telangana State Federation of University Teachers
Association.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              752 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            November 23, 2015 Monday
                               hyderabad Edition

MHRD's new ranking system irks varsities

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 293 words


At a time when universities in Telangana are struggling to obtain NAAC and other
accreditation, the new National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) of the
ministry of human resource development (MHRD) has irked varsities and
constituent colleges.

The new assessment system by the MHRD has been framed to help students and
parents make an informed choice before choosing an institution for higher
studies. The rankings will be published ahead of next year's admission schedule.
The ranking framework is currently available for universities and colleges
offering engineering, management, architecture, pharmacy courses.

While the registrations for the NIRF is scheduled to begin from Monday onwards,
institutions are in a dilemma over whether the assessment would be in addition
to the evaluation being carried out through exist

ing frameworks. " Although the National Board of Accreditation is sufficient for
assessment of engineering colleges, introduction of NIFR only adds to the
confusion," said a representative of an engineering college.

Having said that, the University Grants Commission recently instructed the
universities and constituent colleges to consider the registration as the top
most priority . However, academicians claim that most of the T universities are
suffering from staff crunch due to which the new ranking system may not be of
any use. "None of the state universities from Telangana have made a mark in any
of the ranking systems accepted worldwide. While there is a severe staff crunch
in most universities, such ranking systems may have no significance at all.The
government should instead strengthen the existing assessment systems," said B
Satyarayana, president of Telangana State Federation of University Teachers
Association.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              753 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 29, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY Top 25 Coaches' Poll;
College football

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 12C

LENGTH: 688 words


Times p.m. Eastern

1. Ohio State (9-0)

Points: 1,495 (56 first-place votes). Previous ranking: 1. This week: Saturday
vs. No. 19 Wisconsin. Last week: Beat then-No. 22 Penn State 37-17.

2. Boston College (8-0)

Points: 1,414 (3). Previous ranking: 2. This week: Saturday vs. Florida State
(ABC, 8). Last week: Beat then-No. 9 Virginia Tech 14-10.

3. LSU (7-1)

Points: 1,324. Previous ranking: 3. This week: Saturday at No. 18 Alabama (CBS,
5). Last week: Idle.

4. Oregon (7-1)

Points: 1,280 (1). Previous ranking: 5. This week: Saturday vs. No. 6 Arizona
State. Last week: Beat then-No. 8 Southern California 24-17.

5. Oklahoma (7-1)

Points: 1,269. Previous ranking: 4. This week: Saturday vs. Texas A&M (ABC, 8).
Last week: Idle.

6. Arizona State (8-0)

Points: 1,221. Previous ranking: 7. This week: Saturday at No. 4 Oregon. Last
week: Beat then-No. 20 California 31-20.

7. West Virginia (7-1)

Points: 1,177. Previous ranking: 6. Next game: Nov. 8 vs. Louisville (ESPN,
7:30). Last week: Beat Rutgers 31-3.

8. Kansas (8-0)

Points: 1,108. Previous ranking: 10. This week: Saturday vs. Nebraska (FSN,
12:30). Last week: Beat Texas A&M 19-11.

9. Missouri (7-1)

Points: 983. Previous ranking: 13. This week: Saturday at Colorado (FSN, 6:30).
Last week: Beat Iowa State 42-28.

10. Georgia (6-2)

Points: 791. Previous ranking: 19. This week: Saturday vs. Troy. Last week: Beat
then-No. 11 Florida 42-30.

11. Hawaii (8-0)

Points: 769. Previous ranking: 14. Next game: Nov. 10 vs. Fresno State. Last
week: Beat New Mexico State 50-13.

12. Texas (7-2)

Points: 753. Previous ranking: 16. This week: Saturday at Oklahoma State (ABC,
3:30). Last week: Beat Nebraska 28-25.

13. Virginia Tech (6-2)

Points: 736. Previous ranking: 9. This week: Thursday at Georgia Tech (ESPN,
7:30). Last week: Lost to No. 2 Boston College 14-10.

14. Michigan (7-2)

Points: 701. Previous ranking: 21. This week: Saturday at Michigan State. Last
week: Beat Minnesota 34-10.

15. Southern California (6-2)

Points: 679. Previous ranking: 8. This week: Saturday vs. Oregon State. Last
week: Lost to then-No. 5 Oregon 24-17.

16. Auburn (6-3)

Points: 454. Previous ranking: 23. This week: Saturday vs. Tennessee Tech. Last
week: Beat Mississippi 17-3.

17. Florida (5-3)

Points: 451. Previous ranking: 11. This week: Saturday vs. Vanderbilt. Last
week: Lost to then-No. 19 Georgia 42-30.

18. Alabama (6-2)

Points: 439. Previous ranking: 24. This week: Saturday vs. No. 3 LSU (CBS, 5).
Last week: Idle.

19. Wisconsin (7-2)

Points: 422. Previous ranking: 25. This week: Saturday at No. 1 Ohio State. Last
week: Beat Indiana 33-3.

20. Connecticut (7-1)

Points: 419. Previous ranking: not ranked. This week: Saturday vs. Rutgers
(ESPNU, 7:15). Last week: Beat then-No. 12 South Florida 22-15.

21. South Florida (6-2)

Points: 291. Previous ranking: 12. This week: Saturday vs. Cincinnati (ABC,
3:30). Last week: Lost to then-unranked Connecticut 22-15.

22. Boise State (7-1)

Points: 218. Previous ranking: not ranked. This week: Saturday vs. San Jose
State. Last week: Beat Fresno State 34-21.

23. Kentucky (6-3)

Points: 159. Previous ranking: 15. Next game: Nov. 10 at Vanderbilt. Last week:
Lost to Mississippi State 31-14.

24. Clemson (6-2)

Points: 145. Previous ranking: not ranked. This week: Saturday at Duke. Last
week: Beat Maryland 30-17.

25. South Carolina (6-3)

Points: 131. Previous ranking: 17. This week: Saturday at Arkansas (ESPN or
ESPN2, 8). Last week: Lost to Tennessee 27-24 OT.

Dropped out: No. 18 Virginia (7-2, lost to North Carolina State 29-24), No. 20
California (5-3, lost to then-No. 7 Arizona State 31-20), No. 22 Penn State
(6-3, lost to No. 1 Ohio State 37-17).

Others receiving votes: Virginia (7-2) 119; California (5-3) 118; Wake Forest
(6-2) 115; Purdue (7-2) 107; Tennessee (5-3) 64; Penn State (6-3) 53; Illinois
(6-3) 21; Kansas State (5-3) 20; Brigham Young (5-2) 13; Oklahoma State (5-3)
11; Cincinnati (6-2) 8; Texas Tech (6-3) 8; Houston (5-3) 4; Vanderbilt (5-3) 4;
Colorado (5-4) 2; Florida State (5-3) 2; Oregon State (5-3) 2.

The USA TODAY board of coaches is made up of 60 head coaches at Division I-A
institutions. All are members of the American Football Coaches Association.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              754 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Daily Star (Oneonta, New York)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          September 14, 2016 Wednesday

Area SUNY schools rise in U.S. News rankings

BYLINE: The Daily Star, Oneonta, N.Y.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 428 words


Sept. 14--The area's three State University of New York colleges all improved
their rankings in this year's U.S. News and World Report "Best Colleges" list,
according to a Tuesday announcement.

The annual rankings are based on scores given for various college data including
faculty-to-student ratio, tuition cost, graduation rate, enrollment and freshman
retention rates, according to the media release.

SUNY Cobleskill was named No. 17 in the "Best Regional Colleges in the North"
category, up from its No. 28 position last year. It was also ranked No. 9 in Top
Public Schools.

"It is an honor for SUNY Cobleskill to be recognized once again as a destination
for higher education throughout the region," said SUNY Cobleskill President
Marion A. Terenzio. "This is an affirmation of the college's commitment to
innovation and quality, as well as to the dedication of its students, faculty
and staff."

SUNY Delhi was ranked No. 19 on the "Best Regional Colleges in the North" list,
its highest position to date, according to school officials. It was also ranked
No. 11 in Top Public Schools.

"We continue to see an increase in the number of academically talented students
applying to Delhi, which is a direct result of our reputation as an educational
leader with strong graduate outcomes," said President Michael R. Laliberte. "Our
freshman class this fall has the highest grade point average in Delhi history."

According to U.S. News and World Report, "colleges" are defined as schools that
"focus on undergraduate education but grant fewer than half their degrees in
liberal arts disciplines."

SUNY Oneonta jumped three spots to No. 44 in the "Best Regional Universities --
North" category, which includes institutions that "offer a full range of
undergraduate and master's degrees, but few, if any, doctoral programs." The
college was also ranked No. 12 in Top Public Schools.

"This recognition belongs to the entire college community," said SUNY Oneonta
President Nancy Kleniewski. "Regardless of title or job, everyone on campus is
focused on educating the next generation of leaders for New York state and
beyond. SUNY Oneonta's reputation for academic quality, strong retention and
overall value is rooted in our teamwork and deep pride in helping students
succeed. This shines through in our U.S. News ranking."

The rankings, which include more than 1,600 schools nationwide, can be viewed
online at www.usnews.com/colleges.

___ (c)2016 The Daily Star (Oneonta, N.Y.) Visit The Daily Star (Oneonta, N.Y.)
at www.thedailystar.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160914-OY-Area-SUNY-schools-rise-in-U-S-News-rankings-0914-20160914

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OY


                         Copyright 2016 The Daily Star

                              755 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                     December 3, 2000 Sunday FINAL EDITION

COLLEGE SURVEYS GO BACK TO CLASS TO OFFER NEW RANKINGS OF SCHOOLS

BYLINE: Amy Argetsinger

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 818 words


The last time Sweet Briar College made a splashy appearance near the top of any
national ranking of colleges was nearly 20 years ago as one of the preppiest
schools in America, according to "The Official Preppy Handbook."

The tiny all-women's college in the foothills of Virginia's Blue Ridge Mountains
was an easy target for the satirical bestseller, what with its school colors of
pink and green, the campus enthusiasm for horseback riding and a surplus of
genteel Southern charm.

Yet Sweet Briar despite a reputation for solid academics never stood a chance
when it came to the annual U.S. News & World Report rankings that have become an
increasingly influential measure of college quality.

Such rankings closely watched every year by college-seeking students and their
families gauge a school's resources, such as library size, and selectivity.

Sweet Briar's finances are limited by its size. Its average entering Scholastic
Aptitude Test scores remain profoundly mediocre.

Now, amid growing frustration in higher education about the fairness of those
rankings, a survey released this month attempts a different way of considering
what makes a good college: How much are students actually learning ?

This time, Sweet Briar, and three other low-profile, low-buzz, small liberal
arts colleges, came out as the surprising winners.

"The research is very clear it's not what a school has, it's what a school
does," said George D. Kuh, a professor at Indiana University who directed the
National Survey of Student Engagement.

The $3.3 million project, underwritten by the Pew Charitable Trusts, surveyed
students at 276 colleges on topics such as how much time they spend preparing
for class, talking with professors and working on extracurricular projects.

It also tried to gauge how much academic and social support campuses provide
their students.

"These are good educational practices," Kuh said. "These are the things that
matter more than the reputation a school has or the resources it has."

Delighted Sweet Briar officials applaud the new survey and say they hope it
catches on with the general public.

"It's an effort to get at the habits of mind, which is exactly what we're
after," said President Elisabeth S. Muhlenfeld.

Yet some note that the new study seems to favor small private colleges not an
option for every student.

Others doubt the survey system, which is costly and complicated to run, could
ever challenge the mainstream success of the U.S. News or Money magazine
rankings.

And many of the 1,400 universities that U.S. News surveys didn't participate in
the study.

The only institutions that scored in the 80th percentile in all five of the
survey's measures of quality were Sweet Briar, Beloit College in Wisconsin, Elon
College in North Carolina and Centre College in Kentucky.

This year, Centre ranked 42nd and Beloit ranked 47th on U.S. News' listing of
national liberal arts colleges. Sweet Briar has long lingered just below the top
50. Elon ranked 11th among Southern universities.

Although the new survey offers itself as simply an alternative way of gauging
colleges, its creation clearly stems from a growing wave of frustration among
higher education officials with the dominance of the U.S. News rankings.

Two other organizations, also underwritten by Pew and other prominent
foundations, are working to create new assessments that will try to gauge a
college's value by measuring student satisfaction and accomplishment one
exploring the freshman experience, the other looking at alumni success.

College officials have complained for years that the rankings force them to
shuffle their budget priorities and bear down on admissions officers in vain
efforts to present

a rosier statistical picture to U.S. News.

Even presidents of the major research universities that consistently earn high
marks complain that the system doesn't fairly capture the full educational
experience.

Kuh said that such quantitative rankings rely heavily on data that are largely
beyond the schools' control, such as the kind of students who apply there and
the size of the schools' endowments.

"But they can change the nature of the student experience, by the amount of
interaction they get, by the expectations from professors" things the survey
attempts to measure. "These things are (a) matter of institutional will," Kuh
said.

According to the survey, some colleges may want to make a lot of changes.

Fewer than 15 percent of freshmen and seniors reported spending more than 26
hours a week studying outside of class the report's authors claim that 30 hours
should be standard. Nineteen percent of freshmen never make a class
presentation.

The numbers were bleakest for the large public research universities, where 53
percent of freshmen and 35 percent of seniors said they never discuss ideas with
faculty outside the classroom.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Washington Post

                       Copyright 2000 Contra Costa Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              756 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                             August 17, 2007 Friday

IWU protests how U.S. News' annual ranking adds up

BYLINE: By Michele Steinbacher;msteinbacher@pantagraph.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 719 words


BLOOMINGTON - Area college and university leaders are pleased U.S. News and
World Report rankings released today continue to recognize their schools, but
they aren't happy with a key factor in how the ratings are determined.

Some Central Illinois college administrators, especially those at Illinois
Wesleyan University, are formally protesting one category - assessment by peer
institutions - that makes up a quarter of each institution's score.

IWU in Bloomington and Illinois State University in Normal stayed about the same
in the rankings compared to last year, but they showed improvements in some
categories.

Eureka College moved up significantly in its peer category, and Lincoln College
's Normal campus appears on the list for the first time this year.

IWU President Dick Wilson decries the so-called peer assessment segment of the
U.S. News score as nothing more than a popularity contest.

"This popularity poll asks presidents like myself to rate the quality of 266
liberal arts institutions across the country, many of which we have little or no
firsthand knowledge," Wilson said in a released statement.

Illinois Wesleyan is not alone. Sixty-two U.S. college presidents have agreed to
quit taking part in U.S. News' rankings surveys, mostly because of the weight
given to the reputation rating.

But so far no liberal arts colleges ranked higher than No. 30 on last year's
list has signed on, nor have any of the top 100 universities.

Interviews by The Associated Press with top officials at about a dozen elite
colleges confirm a fault line in the rankings debate that's more than
coincidence. AP found educators everywhere don't like to see colleges ranked
like basketball teams, but it irks educators at the top-ranked colleges a lot
less.

This opinion-based score can significantly skew the rankings, Wilson said.

Wilson said IWU no longer will participate in the peer-assessment survey for
that reason.

Next fall, IWU instead will join others in taking part in the National
Association of Independent Colleges and Universities effort to provide a
Web-based data system for prospective students.

Editor defends survey

Brian Kelly, editor of U.S. News, says the protesters have it all wrong - the
publicity from appearing in the rankings at all is good for their colleges.

And he says the efforts to develop an alternative system to get students
information about colleges misses the point: Ample college data is available.
What people need is analysis.

"If you look at the way people buy cars, refrigerators, the health-care plans we
rank, or hospitals, consumers are hungry for hard data they can use,'' Kelly
said. "But you can't just give people just lumps of data. You have to help them
sort their way through it."

But area campus leaders say the popularity factor is too big a part of the
overall score. Instead, campus leaders urge students considering what college to
attend to broaden their approach.

"The rankings don't get to the essence of a campus - the special programs, the
atmosphere. We want prospective students to come and talk to our faculty, look
at our graduation and retention rates, class sizes," said Beth Cunningham, IWU
provost and dean of the faculty.

ISU President Al Bowman said he believes national universities might not be far
behind the liberal arts colleges' organized protest. He's not a big fan of peer
assessment and agrees with Wilson's criticism of judging others.

Having to give more than 200 national universities a 1 to 5 score isn't an
accurate way to judge schools. "It's well known they are a flawed measure of a
university's wealth," he said.

Bowman said better indicators are the hard data numbers. Students and parents
should look at factors such as class size, how many full-time professors teach
at a school, and how many people stay into the sophomore year, he said.

Eureka's leader also understands the outcry against the U.S. News rankings as
being unfair.

"The public is hungry for some kind of more accurate measurement. But so far,
there hasn't been a good alternative," Eureka President David Arnold said.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 The Pantagraph

                              757 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                          September 7, 2016 Wednesday

Falling college rankings not all about money;
In Ireland we may be too willing to blame a fall in college rankings on cuts to
public funds

BYLINE: John O'Hagan

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 785 words


The significant change in the positions of most Irish universities in recent
years in the QS ranking of world universities is causing alarm in some quarters.
The latest rankings have seen further falls, with Ireland's top-ranked
university, Trinity College, now just ranked inside the top 100.

Whether we like it or not, these rankings do matter, if only because they may
influence the choice of academics and researchers concerning where to work, and
the choice of students, in particular graduate students, with regard to study
location.

Besides, universities give these rankings considerable prominence in promotional
material and websites, especially when the rankings move in their favour.

There are some things to keep in mind when looking at the rankings. First, it
appears that there is a strong bias in the QS rankings favouring Ireland. For
example, of the top 30 universities using the recent QS ranking, 24 are in the
English-speaking world.

Is it really believable that Britain has nine universities in the top 50 whereas
developed countries of similar economic size and maturity such as France and
Germany have just one or none? Other rankings, for example, based solely on more
reliable research measures have France and Germany figuring as prominently as
the UK.

There could then be an inevitable drop in rankings for the English-language
countries, including Ireland, in years to come. Add to this the rise of Asian
economies and universities, and even bigger declines could be predicted.

Scores

The second thing to bear in mind is the variation in the "scores" attached to
each university. Once you go below the ranking of 50 or so the scores drop
slowly, with little separating a large number of universities. For example, just
seven points separate Trinity (ranked joint 98) from Cardiff (ranked 140).

Thus, large jumps up and down the present annual rankings are very possible,
especially given the subjective nature of these rankings. Reputation accounts
for 40 per cent of the total QS "score". Reputation can be a notoriously fickle
concept. Changes in reputation can easily drive large changes in ranking in
either direction. We are not talking here about clear objective measurement as
for golf or tennis or football world rankings.

The third point to make is to advocate caution with regard to explanations for
variations in rankings. There may, for example, be too much of a readiness in
Ireland to attribute a fall in ranking primarily to a drop in public funding. If
so, how then can the very low ranking of some French and German universities be
explained?

Besides, it is the relative movements in public funding that matter. Many
British universities had cuts in public funding in recent years but still moved
up in the rankings. How do you explain within the Irish context the rise of UCG
in the recent rankings?

Public funding

Moreover, the student/staff ratio makes up just 20 per cent of the total QS
evaluation, and this really is the only category in which changes in public
funding would have a real short-term impact.

Universities should also look critically at their own operation, for example pay
levels relative to other countries, the system of incentives linked to academic
performance and academic structures. Before granting increased funding to any
part of the public sector, the Government, on behalf of taxpayers, must be
assured that maximum value for money is being obtained from existing funding.

There is a lot of evidence to show that it is not just money that matters in
educational performance at all levels. For example, in the US expenditure per
student is way above the OECD average for primary and secondary education but it
ranks well below average in terms of student performance.

A further question is what should be the target range for the ranking of Irish
universities? That depends fundamentally on the number of universities we wish
to support. It is probably totally unrealistic to expect more than one or two
Irish universities to be ranked in the top 250 in the world. This is given not
just the small size of the country but the relatively large number of
universities here.

Related to this, would it make more sense to target success in different subject
areas, such as, say, the natural sciences in one university and engineering in
another?

Such issues raise fundamental questions for future policy towards third-level
education in Ireland. The significant fall in the reported ranking of Ireland's
top two universities in the last few years means that these questions cannot be
ignored.

Funding levels may be an important part of the problem to be addressed. But only
a part. John O'Hagan is professor of economics at Trinity College Dublin

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              758 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

New rankings of varsities and colleges get thumbs-up

                           August 11, 2004 Wednesday

Jason Leow


BEIJING - From a maddeningly complex array of universities and colleges, a new
ranking system has emerged in China that separates, for the first time, the
science and technology institutions from those specialising in the humanities
and social sciences.

Chinese students are giving this list the thumbs-up, saying previous rankings
made no sense because they lumped China's 1,683 universities and colleges with
vastly different specialisations into one exhaustive list.

And because a non-governmental outfit known as the Research Centre for China
Science Evaluation, based in Wuhan, Hubei province, came up with the list, it is
perceived to be more credible than one drawn up by the government.

'Regarding how the list divides universities between the science and technology
ones and the humanities and social sciences, over 80 per cent of students
approve,' said the China Youth Daily, a collaborator in the ranking exercise.

Knowing that education is a hot topic, the daily searched for an independent
research institute to design a new ranking system, hoping it would generate
publicity, said Professor Qiu Junping, director at the research centre in Wuhan.

'What we came up with is scientific and addresses the need for some rationality
in the way we rank our colleges,' he told The Straits Times.

The range of universities in China is mind-boggling. There are
multi-disciplinary colleges such as Peking University, universities that train
teachers, foreign language institutes and even forestry schools.

Even within the medical schools, there may be language and humanities
departments that offer top-notch curricula. The new ranking takes note of them.

Not surprisingly, Peking University, Shanghai Fudan University and Wuhan
University lead in the teaching of both the hard and social sciences.

The list also shows that Shandong Chinese Medicine University has the best
humanities and social sciences departments among the medical schools.

Nanjing Finance and Economics University tops the economics institutes in the
teaching of science and technology, while China Renmin University, renowned for
teaching politics, is the best among similar schools for the humanities.

Since July 8, the China Youth Daily has published the ranking results by cities,
provinces and municipalities.

The newspaper, which runs an education section every Tuesday, also polled 212
undergraduates for their response to the list. The feedback was generally
positive.

Asked if school rankings have a big impact on students' choice of colleges, Prof
Qiu said: 'It will have some impact. But students don't depend entirely on
rankings to pick their schools.

'People's recommendations and school reputation are other factors.'

SECTION: Asia

LENGTH: 455 words

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2004 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              759 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Meridian Star (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 5, 2012 Wednesday

Lions remain atop NJCAA rankings

BYLINE: The Meridian Star, Miss.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 319 words


Sept. 05--MERIDIAN -- Buoyed by its strong fourth quarter Saturday, defending
national champion East Mississippi Community College remains the best junior
college team in the country.

The Lions, who were tabbed the No. 1 team in the NJCAA preseason rankings
following their first national championship a year ago, still hold down the top
ranking when the first rankings of the regular season were released Tuesday.

EMCC received seven of the nine first-place votes for 138 points, while Butler
(Kan.) Community College had the other two first-place votes and 134 points.
Arizona Western, which lost to EMCC in last season's national championship game
at the El Toro Bowl, is ranked third.

Joining the Lions, who overcame a sluggish offensive performance to defeat
visiting Pearl River 35-15 at Sullivan-Windham Field, in the top 20 from the
MACJC are Mississippi Gulf Coast at No. 4, Hinds at No. 5 and Northwest
Mississippi at No. 12. Gulf Coast crushed Coahoma 64-14 on the road, leading
29-0 after the first quarter and 50-7 at halftime.

Hinds, which moved up a spot from the preseason rankings, led Mississippi Delta
17-13 at halftime before using a big fourth quarter to emerge with a 42-21 win
at home.

Northwest, which was ranked No. 11 in the preseason, slipped a spot despite not
playing after its season opener at Southwest Mississippi was canceled due to
Tropical Storm Isaac.

The top-ranked Lions rallied from three first-half deficits to secure a 21-15
halftime lead against the Wildcats as the two teams traded scores before
intermissions. The score remained there until the final three minutes when EMCC
tacked on two scores. The Lions forced five turnovers, including an interception
that Shaquille Fluker returned for a touchdown in the game's final minutes.

___ (c)2012 The Meridian Star (Meridian, Miss.) Visit The Meridian Star
(Meridian, Miss.) at meridianstar.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120905-ZG-Lions-remain-atop-NJCAA-rankings-0905-20120905

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZG


                        Copyright 2012 The Meridian Star

                              760 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             July 12, 2016 Tuesday

Millikin named to Forbes' 2016 Top Colleges Ranking

LENGTH: 650  words

DATELINE: New York



 Decatur: Millikin University has issued the following news release:

  Millikin University is once again ranked among the nation's best colleges and
universities by Forbes in its ninth annual Top Colleges in America ranking.
Millikin is one of 26 colleges from Illinois to make Forbes' national ranking of
660 institutions.





 Forbes' 2016 Top Colleges in America ranking is prepared exclusively with
research from the Center for College Affordability and Productivity (CCAP), the
Department of Education, Payscale and the America's Leaders list.



 The ranking is based on numerous factors that evaluate student satisfaction,
post-graduate success, student success in garnering nationally competitive
awards, student debt and graduation rates.



 Millikin University students



 Millikin University President Dr. Patrick White says, "We are pleased that
Forbes continues to recognize Millikin among the best colleges and universities
in the state. Since 2009, Millikin has been included in this distinguished list.
Our 99 percent placement rate in employment and graduate and professional
schools; our pioneering commitment to Performance Learning for all students,
through which every student is challenged and supported to learn and do, to act
and perform in a way that builds confidence, competence and success; and our
historical excellence in the performing arts and the sciences are a few of the
markers that continue to place MU in this elite company."



 Forbes explains, "This list of 660 schools distinguishes itself from
competitors by our belief in 'output' over 'input.' Meaning, we're not
interested in what gets a student into college, like our peers who focus heavily
on selectivity metrics such as high school class rank, SAT scores and the like.
Our sights are set directly on ROI: What are students getting out of college?"



 Forbes added, "College has become one of the biggest financial decisions
students and their families make. They deserve all the information they can get
on the questions that directly concern them: Are current undergrads satisfied?
Is it likely I'll graduate on time or incur a ton of student debt? Will I get a
good job and be a leader in my chosen profession?"



 For more information on Forbes' Top Colleges in America ranking or for the full
list, visit forbes.com /top-colleges.



 Shilling Hall



 "It's exciting to be recognized by Forbes as one of America's outstanding
institutions because it reminds us of the importance and effectiveness of our
work with students," said Millikin Provost Dr. Jeffery Aper. "This recognition
also offers inspiration to continue to refine and strengthen our distinctive
Performance Learning based approach to student learning and development. We know
that we are going to continue to stand out as a star in the constellation of
American higher education because of the talent, dedication and innovative work
of our faculty and staff in collaboration with students who aspire to make a
real difference in their careers and in their lives."



 Millikin University is a private, comprehensive university with a diverse
student population of approximately 2,000 undergraduate and graduate students. A
Millikin education features Performance Learning, a unique learning approach
offered only at Millikin that gives students the chance to build the confidence
and skills to succeed before and after graduation. Millikin offers more than 50
majors in the College of Fine Arts, College of Arts and Sciences, College of
Professional Studies and Tabor School of Business, and is located on a 75-acre
residential campus in Decatur, Ill. Last year, 99 percent of Millikin graduates
gained employment or admission into professional/graduate school within six
months of graduation. More information is available at millikin.edu.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              761 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 10, 2017 Friday

John Jay is Among the Most Diverse Colleges in the Northeast According to Wall
Street Journal Ranking

LENGTH: 331  words



New York: State University of New York CUNY system has issued the following news
release:
John Jay College has been ranked among the top five multicultural and inclusive
colleges in New York City in the Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education
(THE) College Rankings. The  list is based on an environment metric which
includes the racial and financial backgrounds of student populations. John Jay
is #10 for diversity among colleges in the entire Northeast.


According to the publication, the WSJ/THE rankings measure school environment
factors such as the number of students that are the first in their families to
attend college and the share of the student body that comes from abroad. This
metric also accounts for the percentage of Pell Grant recipients and the racial
and ethnic diversity of the faculty. Four other City University of New York
colleges also made the top 10 list.
With a student body that represents more than 130 nationalities, John Jay's
diverse community is evident beyond the rankings. The College's inclusive campus
fosters a rich environment for learning about important topics, engaging in
hands-on research and working towards solutions to major national and global
issues.
As a Hispanic-Serving Institution, with membership in the Hispanic Association
of Colleges & Universities (HACU) and the Hispanic Education Technology Services
consortium (HETS), John Jay supports student success with programs such as
Adelante!, the Pre-Law Institute, the Ronald H. Brown Law School Prep Program,
and the Program for Research Initiatives in Science and Math (PRISM), which is
contributing to increased diversity in the science, technology, engineering, and
math (STEM) fields. This year, a report by the Education Trust also ranked John
Jay College #3 for the graduation rates of Black students among top-performing
colleges and universities.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              762 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Daily Record, The (Baltimore, MD)

                           September 12, 2017 Tuesday

Maryland schools hold steady in U.S. News rankings

BYLINE: Tim Curtis

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 562  words


There were no surprises for Maryland's colleges and universities in this year's
U.S. News & World Report Best Colleges Rankings, with most schools seeing
negligible changes on the overall list.

The Johns Hopkins University once again ranked highest out of the Maryland
schools. It placed 11th, down from No. 10 spot the university has held the last
couple of years. Hopkins tied with Dartmouth and was passed by the California
Institute of Technology.

Princeton University once again was ranked the best school in the country.
Harvard finished second and the University of Chicago and Yale University tied
for third.

Maryland's flagship public university at College Park also fell a couple of
spots on the list, down to a tie for 61st nationally from a tie for 60th. The
University of Maryland also finished 22nd on the list of national public
universities, down from a tie for 20th last year.

U.S. News splits the rankings into several groups: national universities,
national liberal arts colleges, regional universities and regional liberal arts
colleges. Regional universities differ from national universities in that they
do not offer many doctoral degrees.

The U.S. Naval Academy ranked as the best national liberal arts college in the
state, finishing in a tie for 21st with Connecticut's Wesleyan University. Navy
fell behind its rival, the U.S. Military Academy, which finished in a tie for
12th.

Maryland had two of the top-five public liberal arts colleges in the nation. The
Naval Academy finished second on the list, while St. Mary's College of Maryland
finished fifth and was the top non-military public liberal arts college. St.
Mary's finished 96th on the overall list.

Other ranked Maryland liberal arts colleges included St. John's College in a tie
for 53rd, Washington College tied for 96th, Goucher College tied for 112th and
McDaniel College tied for 134th.

Regional rankings

Maryland's regional universities also did well on the list, which separates the
colleges into four regions. Maryland universities are placed in the North
region.

Loyola University of Maryland finished tied for fourth with the College of New
Jersey. Mount St. Mary's tied for 25th, Hood College tied for 28th, Towson tied
for 41st, Notre Dame of Maryland University tied for 56th, Salisbury tied for
78th and Stevenson tied for 86th on the list.

Towson tied for 10th as one of the top public regional universities in the
north.

The U.S. News rankings have become a popular resource for students and families
making their college decisions. Beyond the school rankings, U.S. News also
compiles lists of other areas of importance for students trying to pick a future
university.

For example, two Maryland universities have consistently ranked high on a list
of the Most Innovative Schools. The University of Maryland, Baltimore County,
finished seventh on the list this year and the University of Maryland, College
Park finished 15th.

UMBC has used that reputation for innovation, defined as schools "the public
should be watching because of the cutting-edge changes being made on their
campuses," to help spur its development and growth.

That reputation includes a focus on undergraduate teaching. On a list measuring
that commitment, UMBC finished 13th among national universities.

Click here for more from this resource.

Copyright © 2017 BridgeTower Media.  All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved

                              763 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Sligo Weekender

                                 March 3, 2009

Ursuline top in schools survey

SECTION: IRISH NEWS

LENGTH: 369 words


THE Ursuline College is County Sligo's top secondary school according to the
Sunday Times Parent Power survey, revealed last weekend.

The all-girls school in Finisklin finished 36th out of the 400 secondary schools
surveyed and was well ahead of any other County Sligo school in the rankings.

The Parent Power survey rates secondary schools with more than 100 pupils in
terms of the percentage of students who go on to third-level education and of
those, the percentage who attend universities.

The figures are based on data collated from 32 third-level institutions in the
Republic and institutions in Northern Ireland and Britain, which shows what
schools third level entrants have come from.

Pupil teacher ratios are also taken into account in deciding the ranking, but
schools which send a greater percentage of students to universities (as opposed
to other third level institutions) have the highest rankings.

The reason for the Ursuline College's good showing is that 94.2 percent of its
students go on to third level education, with 69.6 percent going to
universities. The Ursuline's newest ranking is up from its 53rd place in the
previous Parent Power survey published in December 2007. Other Sligo Schools
have also risen in the rankings.

Sligo Grammar School is up 48 places to 124th and Sligo Mercy College is up
eight places to 156th. However, other Sligo secondary schools, particularly
outside of Sligo town, have not fared as well. St Attracta's Community College
in Tubbercurry was ranked 94th in 2007 but has now slipped to 293rd.

Just over three quarters of St Attracta's male and female students go on to
third level, with just 38 percent going to universities.

Summerhill College in Sligo has also fallen in the rankings, from 308th to
355th, while Jesus & Mary Secondary School in Enniscrone finished bottom of the
rankings in 400th place, having previously come 157th.

The cause of this poor showing is that just

28.8 percent of the pupils of Jesus & Mary go to university. However, overall an
impressive 89.9 percent pursue third level education, one of the highest figures
of any Sligo school.

Elsewhere, Coola Secondary School (221st) and St Mary's Ballisodare (237th) did
not change in the rankings.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              764 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

Averett Ranked in Top Tier by U.S. News & World Report

LENGTH: 356  words

DATELINE: Danville


Averett University has issued the following news release:

Averett University has moved into the top 25 in the college rankings just
released by U.S. News & World Report. In the 2014 edition of Best Colleges,
Averett moved up four slots and is ranked 23rd among Regional Colleges in the
South, up four slots from last year when it was ranked 27th. In addition,
Averett is the highest-ranking Virginia school among the 74 top tier schools
listed as Regional Colleges. According to the Carnegie Classification of
Institutions of Higher Education, schools in this category "are focused almost
entirely on the undergraduate experience and offer a broad range of programs in
the liberal arts."

"We are so excited to learn that Averett is now ranked among the top 25 Best
Regional Colleges in the South," said Stacy Gato, vice president for enrollment
management. "It's a testament to the hard work of our faculty and staff that in
just four years we have moved from not being ranked at all to being ranked 23rd.
This is the fifth such recognition from a third party reviewer the University
has received in the last two months, and we are thrilled."

Since 1983, the U.S. News College rankings, which group schools based on
categories created by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching,
has grown to be the most comprehensive research tool for students and parents
considering higher education opportunities. The rankings are available at
www.usnews.com/colleges, and will be published in the U.S. News & World Report
2014 Best Colleges Guide on newsstands September 24.

The 2014 Best Colleges package provides the most thorough examination of how
more than 1,376 accredited four-year schools compare on a set of up to 16 widely
accepted indicators of excellence. The key measures of quality determined in the
rankings are: peer assessment (22.5 percent), graduation and retention rates
(22.5 percent), faculty resources (20 percent), student selectivity (12.5
percent), financial resources (10 percent), alumni giving (5 percent) and
graduation rate performance (7.5 percent).

For more information please visit: http://www.averett.edu.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              765 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 27, 2017 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY COACHES POLL Preseason college baseball

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 583 words


Preseason college baseball (2016 record in parentheses)

1. TCU (49-18)

Points: 764 (24 first-place votes). Previous ranking: 3.

2. Florida (52-16)

Points: 710 (4). Previous ranking: 5.

3. LSU (45-21)

Points: 680 (2). Previous ranking: 12.

4. South Carolina (46-18)

Points: 635. Previous ranking: 14.

5. Florida State (41-22)

Points: 616. Previous ranking: 13.

6. Vanderbilt (43-19)

Points: 581. Previous ranking: 17.

7. Oregon State (35-19)

Points: 563. Previous ranking: Not ranked.

8. Louisville (50-14)

Points: 525. Previous ranking: 10.

9. Coastal Carolina (55-18)

Points: 396 (1). Previous ranking: 1.

10. East Carolina (38-23-1)

Points: 387. Previous ranking: 16.

11. Cal State Fullerton (36-23)

Points: 371. Previous ranking: Not ranked.

12. Clemson (44-20)

Points: 369. Previous ranking: 15.

13. North Carolina (34-21)

Points: 362. Previous ranking: Not ranked.

14. North Carolina State (38-22)

Points: 339. Previous ranking: 20.

15. Arizona (49-24)

Points: 325. Previous ranking: 2.

16. Louisiana-Lafayette (43-21)

Points: 316. Previous ranking: 19.

17. Miami (Fla.) (50-14)

Points: 292. Previous ranking: 8.

18. Virginia (38-22)

Points: 271. Previous ranking: 22.

19. Texas Tech (47-20)

Points: 259. Previous ranking: 6.

20. Texas A&M (49-16)

Points: 234. Previous ranking: 9.

21. Stanford (31-23)

Points: 175. Previous ranking: Not ranked.

22. Oklahoma State (43-22)

Points: 160. Previous ranking: 4.

23. UC-Santa Barbara (43-20-1)

Points: 126. Previous ranking: 7.

24. Mississippi (43-19)

Points: 97. Previous ranking: 18.

25. Rice (38-24)

Points: 86. Previous ranking: Not ranked.

Dropped out: No.11 Mississippi State (44-18-1), No.21 Boston College (35-22),
No.23 Southern Mississippi (41-20), No.24 Tulane (41-21), No.25 Dallas Baptist
(44-19).

Others receiving votes: Washington (33-23) 85; Long Beach State (38-22) 62;
Maryland (30-27) 59; North Carolina-Wilmington (41-19) 42; Dallas Baptist
(44-19) 35; Texas (25-32) 22; Houston (36-23) 20; Arizona State (36-23) 19;
Mississippi State (44-18-1) 19; UCLA (25-31) 12; Michigan (36-21) 10; Southern
California (28-28) 7; Sam Houston State (42-22) 6; Georgia Tech (38-25) 5;
Auburn (23-33) 4; Arkansas (26-29) 3; Florida Atlantic (39-19) 3; Minnesota
(36-22) 3; New Mexico (39-23) 3; Oklahoma (30-27-1) 3; Seattle (37-21) 3; Bryant
(47-12) 2; Rhode Island (31-27) 2; Tulane (41-21) 2; Cal Poly (32-25) 1; Marist
(24-27) 1; Oregon (29-26) 1; Southeastern Louisiana (40-21) 1; Southern Illinois
(31-25-1) 1.

The USA TODAY Sports board of coaches is made up of 31 coaches at DivisionI
institutions. All are members of the American Baseball Coaches Association. The
board for the 2017 season: John Anderson, Minnesota; Ed Blankmeyer, St. John's;
Ray Birmingham, New Mexico; Britt Bonneau, Abilene Christian; Ryan Brownlee,
Western Illinois; Craig Cozart, High Point; Barry Davis, Rider; Bill Decker,
Harvard; Greg DiCenzo, Holy Cross; Jeff Forehand, Lipscomb; Nino Giarratano, San
Francisco; Danny Hall, Georgia Tech; Fritz Hamburg, Saint Joseph's; Carlton
Hardy, Savannah State; Dan Heefner, Dallas Baptist; Charlie Hickey, Central
Connecticut State; Josh Holliday, Oklahoma State; George Horton, Oregon; Steve
Jaksa, Central Michigan; Link Jarrett, UNC-Greensboro; Dave Jarvis, Belmont;
Omar Johnson, Jackson State; Manny Mantrana, Texas Rio Grande Valley; John
McCormack, Florida Atlantic; Jeff Mercer, Wright State; Jim Penders,
Connecticut; Tommy Raffo, Arkansas State; Mark Scalf, UNC-Wilmington; Dave
Serrano, Tennessee; Matt Senk, Stony Brook; Rick Vanderhook, Cal
State-Fullerton.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              766 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    Wilkes Barre Times Leader (Pennsylvania)

                             August 17, 2007 Friday
                                  MAIN EDITION

KING'S AGAIN RANKS HIGH NATIONALLY

BYLINE: SHEENA DELAZIO sdelazio@timesleader.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 470 words


WILKES-BARRE - For the seventh year in a row, King's College has achieved a high
grade in a national ranking of colleges and universities.

The 21st issue of "U.S. News & World Report" has ranked King's 34th out of 574
universities from 10 states ranging from Maryland to Maine, the Best
Universities - Master's category in the Northern United States. Last year,
King's ranked 36th in the same category.

"King's is proud that we continue to be ranked among the top echelon of colleges
and universities in our category, ranking with or ahead of many colleges much
larger in size," said King's president, the Rev. Thomas O'Hara, C.S.C., in a
statement.

The U.S. News & World Report has ranked King's among America's best colleges for
13 straight years, choosing the college because of dedicated faculty, quality
education and low tuition.

"King's current ranking is equally impressive since the college is inherently an
undergraduate college, and had, until 1999, been ranked among the best schools
in that category," O'Hara said.

The report chooses schools based on many factors, from campus life, activities
and sports, to location, cost and academic offerings. According to U.S. News and
World Report, there are two major factors in choosing schools. One relies on
quantitative measure of academic quality, ranked either by the schools mission
or region.

The second factor is decided by gathering information for up to 15 different
areas of academic excellence, and then colleges are ranked among their peers.
Some areas include peer assessment, retention, faculty resources, student
selectivity, financial resources, graduation rate and alumni giving rate.

"While King's is gratified by our improvement in the rankings, the college
considers these subjective studies as external reinforcements to comments we
receive from our most important evaluators: our current and prospective
students, their families and graduates."

In addition to ranking high on the report, in recent years, King's has been
selected for national honors and accreditations by several national and
international associations, such as the American Association of College's and
Universities Greater Expectations Initiative, and has been selected for six
consecutive years by Barron's Best Buys in College Education among the nation's
top colleges.

O'Hara said next week the college will welcome its largest first-year class of
freshmen, which exceeds the previous record by more than 50 students.

"Students and parents continue to praise their educational experience at King's,
and our adherence to the principles of liberal arts education grounded in the
Catholic tradition," O'Hara said.

How area schools ranked

34th - King's College, Wilkes-Barre

57th - Marywood University, Scranton

67th - College Misericordia, Dallas Twp.

70th - Wilkes University, Wilkes-Barre

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Sheena Delazio, a staff writer for The Times Leader, may be reached at
829-7235.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wbt


                        Copyright 2007 The Times Leader
                              All Rights Reserved

                              767 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            February 4, 2018 Sunday
                                 Jaipur Edition

AICTE lauds RTU's ranking system for engg colleges

BYLINE: TIMES NEWS NETWORK

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 274 words


Jaipur:Rajasthan Technical University's (RTU) system of ranking its engineering
colleges on a scale of 1000 points has won praise from the All India Council for
Technical Education (AICTE), the body governing all technical institutes in the
country.

AICTE has sought details of the system after which it will direct other
technical universities to emulate it.

The first-of-its-kind ranking system based on 29 parameters \x96 from parking
space to size of the stairs \x96 has been uploaded on RTU's website to help
students choose colleges.

Dileep Malkhede, advisor, AICTE, said, state-wide ranking by RTU is a
progressive step.

\x93It is very important as it gives the real picture about the status of
colleges to the local people. HRD does ranking for premier institutes which may
not help the masses but state-wide ranking certainly helps students in selecting
the best institute in their state,\x94 said Malkhede.

He added that other state technical universities should also adopt the formula
to help students identify the best colleges.

The ranking was done by RTU after procuring information online on parameters
like: student-teacher ratio, number of courses, total enrolment of students and
teachers, number of smart classes, hostel and mess, insurance, playground,
number of students scoring first division marks, number of conferences, seminars
and journals published by the university in an academic session.

The information is uploaded on the RTU website.

Officials say that they put in a lot of hard work to come up with the ranking
which will be evaluated every year. Thus, institutes lagging behind in the
ranking have a chance to improve.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2018 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              768 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            February 4, 2018 Sunday
                                 Jaipur Edition

AICTE lauds RTU's ranking system for engg colleges

BYLINE: TIMES NEWS NETWORK

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 274 words


Jaipur:Rajasthan Technical University's (RTU) system of ranking its engineering
colleges on a scale of 1000 points has won praise from the All India Council for
Technical Education (AICTE), the body governing all technical institutes in the
country.

AICTE has sought details of the system after which it will direct other
technical universities to emulate it.

The first-of-its-kind ranking system based on 29 parameters \x96 from parking
space to size of the stairs \x96 has been uploaded on RTU's website to help
students choose colleges.

Dileep Malkhede, advisor, AICTE, said, state-wide ranking by RTU is a
progressive step.

\x93It is very important as it gives the real picture about the status of
colleges to the local people. HRD does ranking for premier institutes which may
not help the masses but state-wide ranking certainly helps students in selecting
the best institute in their state,\x94 said Malkhede.

He added that other state technical universities should also adopt the formula
to help students identify the best colleges.

The ranking was done by RTU after procuring information online on parameters
like: student-teacher ratio, number of courses, total enrolment of students and
teachers, number of smart classes, hostel and mess, insurance, playground,
number of students scoring first division marks, number of conferences, seminars
and journals published by the university in an academic session.

The information is uploaded on the RTU website.

Officials say that they put in a lot of hard work to come up with the ranking
which will be evaluated every year. Thus, institutes lagging behind in the
ranking have a chance to improve.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2018 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              769 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 19, 2013 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Should Colleges Be Judged by Graduates' Pay?

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 380 words


To the Editor:

Re ''New Metric for Colleges: Graduates' Salaries,'' by James B. Stewart (Common
Sense column, Sept. 14):

At a time when many of us are pursuing thoughtful ways to measure the ''value''
of the education we provide, I believe that the PayScale ranking is
fundamentally flawed.

For example, PayScale does not include graduates who hold advanced degrees, and
given that roughly 80 percent of Wellesley alumnae pursue graduate and
professional degrees, we are, to say the least, not well represented.

This means that the PayScale ranking does not include high-paying careers like
medicine or law, fields in which Wellesley alumnae are well represented.

Unless and until PayScale refines its analysis to reflect meaningful data, its
ranking system is an unhelpful distraction. I disagree with the practice of
measuring success solely by money earned. If one insists on doing so, however,
then one should use a measure that doesn't defy common sense.

H. KIM BOTTOMLY President, Wellesley College Wellesley, Mass., Sept. 15, 2013

To the Editor:

In a sociology course I took in the 1950s at Oberlin College -- today ranked
25th on the U.S. News & World Report list of liberal arts colleges -- the
instructor announced to the class that he hoped that our college experience
would lead us to go on to graduate school and take meaningful, low-paying jobs
rather than pursue the hollow, money-grubbing profession of business or law,
where we would earn a much higher salary.

True to form, that's what I did: follow a 40-year academic career. It's no
surprise that Obie grads stand at 218th place on PayScale's ranking: it's an
Oberlin tradition.

ERICH GOODE New York, Sept. 14, 2013

To the Editor:

James B. Stewart's column noted that Grinnell College was rated 17th in the U.S.
News rankings but was 366th in the PayScale ranking for midcareer median salary.

We recalled the parent orientation for the first of our two daughters who
attended Grinnell. One faculty member after another spoke to us with great
insight, intellect and energy. Particularly memorable was a professor of history
who told us, ''Our graduates may not always do well, but they always do good.''

We thought that this would be money and time well spent, and it was.

JERRY WHITE CATHY WHITE Colorado Springs, Sept. 15, 2013

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/09/19/opinion/should-colleges
-be-judged-by-graduates-pay.html

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL ZENDER)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company

                              770 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 3, 2017 Tuesday

UB moves up in Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education College Rankings

LENGTH: 630  words



New York: State University of New York at Buffalo has issued the following news
release:
The university tied for 117th overall among 1,000 ranked U.S. colleges and
universities -- the highest rating of any SUNY institution -- according to the
2018 Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education College Rankings, unveiled Sept.
27.


Data for the College Rankings, now in their second year, is based partly on
student feedback. The rankings include the results of a student survey, which
gathered the views of more than 200,000 current university students nationwide
in 2016 and 2017 to find out about their engagement with their studies, their
interaction with their teachers and their satisfaction with their experience.
Nationally, UB tied with the University of the Pacific for 117th. It marks a
significant leap for UB, which was No. 147 last year. This year, UB was 24th
among U.S. public universities, up four spots from a year ago. UB received an
overall score of 66.4 points. Top-ranked Harvard University garnered 91.9
points.
UB ranked No. 1 among public colleges in New York State, and was 12th overall in
the state, coming in ahead of Stony Brook (17th) and Rochester Institute of
Technology (14th).
UB also fared well compared to its peers in the Association of American
Universities, placing 21st among AAU public universities and ahead of Penn
State; University of California, Irvine; and Rutgers.
UB officials say the university's upward trajectory in the rankings is
validation of the effort put forth by countless faculty, staff and students to
improve the overall student experience through a variety of programs, such as
the UB Curriculum and Blackstone LaunchPad. The UB Curriculum is the
university's innovative, student-centered approach to general education that
launched in fall 2016. Blackstone LaunchPad at UB is an entrepreneurship program
that supports and mentors students, staff and alumni.
The Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education College Rankings are based on 15
individual performance indicators and constitute a comparative assessment of
more than 1,000 U.S. universities and colleges. The rankings are designed to
give students and their families the information they need to choose where to
study.
The overall methodology explores four key areas: resources, which represents 30
percent of the overall ranking; engagement (20 percent); outcomes (40 percent);
and environment (10 percent).
Resources addresses whether the college has the capacity to effectively deliver
teaching, and accounts for student-faculty ratio and research paper productivity
among faculty. UB ranked sixth among public universities nationally and 117th
overall in the resources category.
Engagement covers how well the college engages with and challenges its students.
The outcomes category measures the value-added portion of the university,
including its graduation rate, student debt and academic reputation. Environment
captures the essence of what it's like to study at a particular university and
takes into account international student population and diversity of students
and staff.
UB also scored highly on three key questions to which students responded. These
questions were rated on a scale of zero to 10, with 10 representing the
strongest agreement:
    "If you could start over, would you still choose this college?" - 7.47 out
of 10.
     "Does your college provide an environment where you feel you are surrounded
by exceptional students who inspire and motivate you?" - 6.99 out of 10.
     "Is your college effective in helping you to secure valuable internships
that prepare you for your chosen career?" - 7.21 out of 10.

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              771 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            March 31, 2016 Thursday

Texas: 'U.S. News' Ranks More Than 20 UTA Graduate Programs Among Nation's Best

LENGTH: 571 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Austin: City of Arlington, The State of Texas has issued the following news
release:



  U.S. News & World Report has ranked more than 20 graduate programs at UTA
among the nation's best in the magazine's 2017 edition of "Best Graduate
Schools," released this month.





 UTA has top 100 graduate programs in seven colleges and schools including
engineering, nursing, science, architecture, planning and public affairs, and
social work.



 The three graduate level degree programs ranked in the top 50 in the nation are
online graduate education in the College of Education at No. 30; the graduate
social work program in the School of Social Work at No. 38, up six slots since
the last survey in 2012; and the graduate program in
aerospace/aeronautical/astronautical engineering in the College of Engineering
at No. 39, up four slots since last year.



 Gov. Greg Abbott, who attended UTA before earning his undergraduate degree from
UT Austin, said: "Texas is leading the way in research and innovation, and UTA's
recent rankings are further proof that the Lone Star State is becoming a hub for
the greatest minds in higher education. This recognition is a direct reflection
of Texas' mission to elevate our students at all stages in their academic
careers. As governor, I will ensure Texas continues to invest in our
universities and make the Lone Star State a destination for scholars from around
the globe."



 Other improved UTA rankings this year include the College of Engineering at No.
82 among Best Graduate Engineering Schools in the nation, with seven specialty
areas. Last year, the College ranked No. 90. The College of Education is No. 120
among Best Education Schools in the nation, up 16 spots from a year ago.



 A complete list of the graduate program rankings is below.



 College of Architecture, Planning and Public Affairs

 Public Affairs - 77



 College of Business

 Part-Time MBA - 82



 College of Education - 120

 Online Program - 30



 College of Engineering - 82

 Aerospace/Aeronautical/Astronautical Engineering - 39

 Civil Engineering - 87

 Computer Engineering - 75

 Computer Science - 90 (listed by US News under Science)
Electrical/Electronic/Communications Engineering - 82
Industrial/Manufacturing/Systems Engineering - 58

 Materials Engineering - 72

 Mechanical Engineering - 78



 College of Liberal Arts English - 125

 Fine Arts - 131

 History - 118



 College of Nursing and Health Innovation Masters Program - 75

 Online Program - 54



 College of Sciences Biological Sciences - 188

 Chemistry - 131

 Mathematics - 134

 Physics - 111

 Psychology - 158



 School of Social Work

 Social Work - 38



 The U.S. News graduate rankings, independent of the magazine's yearly ranking
of undergraduate programs, are among the most prestigious and widely cited
ratings in higher education.



 "These rankings are a recognition of faculty excellence, talented students, and
the highest quality programs offered at UTA, whether in engineering, social work
and nursing or liberal arts, public affairs and business," said President
Vistasp M. Karbhari. "We have much to celebrate and are especially proud that we
provide a world-class, comprehensive, affordable education to students seeking
unique academic experiences at a tremendous value while engaging with innovative
researchers and many of the brightest minds in our world today."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              772 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                           December 16, 2017 Saturday

Educationists demand ranking of colleges

BYLINE: Himalayan News Service

LENGTH: 313  words


Kathmandu, December 16: Educationists have demanded that the government rank
colleges on the basis of the percentage of students who get employed after
graduation. They said ranking on this basis would create healthy competition
among colleges and encourage them to improve the quality of education.

With more than 16,000 government and private colleges across the country,
students are increasingly finding it difficult to choose the right one for them
to pursue higher education.  Ranking would help students to choose the right
college.

Vice-chancellor of Tribuvan University Tirtha Raj Khaniya said, "A college
cannot said to be providing quality education just because it is affiliated to a
certain university. While there are certified agencies to rank colleges in
foreign countries, in our country there is no such body. The government should
set up a body to rank colleges here."

Currently, there are six universities - Tribhuvan University, Kathmandu
University, Mahendra  Sanskrit University, Lumbini Bauddha University,
Purbanchal University  and Pokhara University - offering higher education in
Nepal.

Director of University Grants Commission Deepak Kumar Khadka said, "Once the
government starts ranking colleges on the basis of pass percentage and the
percentage of students who get employed after graduation, they would be
compelled to improve the quality of education. This will eventually improve the
overall scenario of higher education in the country."

Not that the educationists and government have not thought about ranking
colleges. They have reached several agreements in the past to rank colleges and
universities. However, the agreements never came into implementation.

Similarly, TU Rector Sudha Tripathi said, "Colleges also need to be supported by
the government. This would encourage them to increase pass percentage and
provide affordable quality education."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2017 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              773 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      The Daily Citizen (Dalton, Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             May 10, 2012 Thursday

Dalton High gets high ranking in U.S. News & World Report

BYLINE: The Daily Citizen, Dalton, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 368 words


May 10--Dalton High School is the 16th best high school in Georgia, according to
an annual U.S. News & World Report study released earlier this week.

The report shows the school has a 14 to 1 student to teacher ratio (about the
state average), has a college readiness ranking of 38.3 out of a possible 100
and that students overall have grade point averages of 3.5 in both English and
math.

The school was awarded a Silver medal based on a comparison to other high
schools. In addition to ranking 16th in the state, the school ranks 723rd out of
nearly 22,000 high schools from 49 states and the District of Columbia.

The state rankings were based on how well students performed on state
assessments, "taking into account the test scores of disadvantaged students
(low-income, Hispanic and black) who tend to score lower on tests," according to
a statement on the organization's website, www.usnews.com.

Some 92 percent of students at Dalton High are proficient in English while 96
percent are proficient in math, the report shows. Some 73 percent of students
are ethnic/racial minorities.

High schools that made it through the state ranking process were then eligible
to be ranked nationally for college readiness. College readiness is determined
using a formula that factors in participation rates and pass rates in Advanced
Placement and International Baccalaureate -- programs that provide college level
work. An index of 100 means every 12th-grade student took and passed at least
one AP or IB test. Dalton High's ranking was 38.3, meaning nearly four out of
every 10 students will finish high school with credit for at least one college
level course.

About 4,850 schools received gold, silver or bronze designations based on their
rankings.

"In the state rankings, parents and students can compare schools in terms of
student-teacher ratios, college readiness, and proficiency on state math and
English assessments," a statement on U.S. News' website states. "... These
details are important to explore when choosing a high school in which your child
will succeed."

___ (c)2012 The Daily Citizen (Dalton, Ga.) Visit The Daily Citizen (Dalton,
Ga.) at daltondailycitizen.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120510-DW-Dalton-High-gets-high-ranking
-in-U-S-News-World-Report-20120510

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DW


                        Copyright 2012 The Daily Citizen

                              774 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    August 31, 1995, Thursday, City Edition

New College leads 'Money' survey

BYLINE: DEAN C.K. COX

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 405 words



Money says New College of the University of South Florida  is the best
educational value in the nation for the third year in a row.

Five months after defending against accusations of inflating its SAT  scores,
the liberal arts college in Sarasota again grabs Money magazine's top  spot for
best higher education buy in the nation.

"I'm less impressed that we were ranked No. 1 again for the past three  years,
but that we have been in the top four since Money magazine started  ranking
colleges since 1989," New College Dean Mike Michalson said. "That's  more
impressive."

New College, the honors school of the University of South Florida, came  under
fire when an April 5 Wall Street Journal article scrutinized data that  the
school sends to various organizations that rank colleges. The article  claimed
the college was submitting incorrect average SAT scores in order to  boost its
ranking and attract potential students.

Now that the dispute has been weathered, Michalson said the No. 1 ranking  in
Money's 1996 report proves that New College deserves the recognition.

"It means that the national players like Money understand that New College  had
done nothing wrong. This year they did require that we were doubly sure  about
the information we sent them," Michalson said. "I hope this (ranking)  puts to
rest any suspicions people have about New College. I'd like the past  to be
past."

New College, which merged with USF in 1974, edged out 83-year-old Rice
University in Houston for the third year in a row to be ranked as the best buy
in four-year undergraduate schools.

But Rice University President Malcolm Gillis challenged the accuracy of the
report. He claimed his school, which ranked first in 1993, is still tops in
what it offers.

"We are a private research university. They are a college," Malcolm said  during
a phone interview Wednesday. "Which makes us the best university buy  in the
nation."

According to the article, the $ 2,066 that Florida residents pay for yearly
tuition and the $ 7,950 paid by out-of-state freshmen helped preserve the top
spot for New College. The article also claimed the 1995-96 incoming class
average SAT score of 1,256 far exceeded Money's survey average of 968 for all
schools.

The report, appearing in the 1996 edition of the magazine's special Money
Guide: Your Best College Buys, is due at newsstands Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; TAMPA TODAY

                    Copyright 1995 Times Publishing Company

                              775 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                             April 5, 2016 Tuesday

Annual ranking for varsities from next year - Pitch for department-wise
assessment for more 'realistic picture'

BYLINE: Basant Kumar Mohanty

LENGTH: 698  words


New Delhi, April 5: The government has decided to rank every university and
college from next year in an annual exercise that should help parents and
students make an informed choice while applying to institutes of higher
learning.

A former IIT director, however, said the focus should be on individual
departments for a more "realistic picture", as an overall rank could dilute the
performance of an institute's better departments.

The decision to rank every university and college emerged a day after the
government released the country's first-ever ranking of educational institutes
that, however, didn't include general colleges. Only two per cent of such
colleges had taken part in the exercise that assessed institutes on parameters
like student-teacher ratio, placements and teachers with doctorate degrees.

Moreover, reputable institutes like Mumbai University and Bengal's Calcutta
University and Jadavpur University didn't apply for consideration because they
didn't have the necessary data ready.

Today, sources in the human resource development ministry said higher education
regulators like the University Grants Commission or the All India Council of
Technical Education would ask every university and college to upload data on
their websites as a matter of rule. "Once they put the data in the public
domain, stakeholders can see and complain in case anything is wrong. This will
improve the credibility of the ranking," said an official.

This year, participation in the ranking exercise was voluntary. Out of 700
universities, only 223 had taken part. The percentage was marginally higher for
engineering colleges, with 1,500 out of the 4,000-odd joining the exercise.

As for general colleges, only 800 out of 38,000 had applied, so the National
Board of Accreditation (NBA), which drew up the lists, and the government
decided not to rank them.

The decision to ask every institute to upload data takes care of this. The
agency compiling the data will take the relevant figures from an institute's
website, saving the time and effort to coordinate with individual institutes,
the ministry official said. "If any university or college does not upload data,
they would face action from the regulator concerned."

A former tech school director, however, said treating an institute as a unit
could be misleading. "Some departments in a particular university may be very
good. When a university is treated as a unit, the performance of its best
department gets diluted because other departments may not be doing so well.
Department-wise rankings should give a realistic picture," said former IIT
Kharagpur director K.L. Chopra.

For example, IIT Kharagpur, which ranked third among engineering institutions
this year, has about 40 departments, its mining and architecture departments
being the best in the country. But its rank wouldn't suggest so, since it gives
an overall score.

Ben Sowter, of London-based ranking agency QS, agreed, pointing out that any
ranking, by its nature, was a "simplified aggregate" viewpoint. The "more
specifically a given enquirer can query the data according to their own design
and priorities, the more useful a ranking might become", he said in response to
an emailed query, explaining the "QS strategy of developing faculty and subject
level tables over time".

Ravi Bhardwaj, a lawyer for Symbiosis University, a private institute, however,
felt that a new ranking model wasn't necessary. Bhardwaj said the National
Assessment and Accreditation Council and the NBA, both government agencies,
"evaluate institutions on scientific parameters... here comes another
parameter... another sort of burden on the higher education system". It would be
more prudent to strengthen the existing system of accreditation, he added.

The HRD ministry official disagreed, saying accreditation was a five-year cycle.
"The rankings will be yearly and reflect the relative position of an institute
so that parents and students can decide where to apply for admission."

But the official agreed that the ranks should reflect the strengths and
weaknesses of individual departments. "This is the first year," he said. "Next
year the rankings will be comprehensive and department-wise."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2016 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              776 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 18, 2013 Saturday

Patrick Mattimore: Rankings don't rank well when it comes to measuring school
quality

BYLINE: By Patrick Mattimore © 2013 Bay Area News Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 735 words


Since U.S. News & World Report began ranking colleges 30 years ago, that
magazine has discovered a niche in the ratings industry. USN&WR ranks careers,
hospitals, businesses and world leaders, but the magazine's biggest market has
been its rankings of everything having to do with education -- undergraduate
institutions, doctoral and masters programs, and public high schools.

Of course, given the commercial success of USN&WR's annual college rankings
edition, competitors were bound to spring up. Fifteen years ago, Newsweek
Magazine jumped into the fray by introducing the first national rankings of high
schools.

Two weeks ago USN&WR released its best high school list and this week Newsweek
and the Daily Beast published their annual high school rankings.

While it may be comforting to think that it's possible to qualitatively compare
educational institutions, the reality is that the major rankings are subjective
evaluations based upon largely arbitrary classification schemes. The problem is
that people often ignore the evaluators' suspect methodologies and accept the
ratings at face value.

For many years, Newsweek ranked high schools according to an index developed by
Washington Post education reporter Jay Mathews. The Post continues to use the
Mathews metric, in which schools are ranked based upon how many college-level
tests the schools give. There is no attempt to evaluate how students perform on
the tests, and many of the schools on Mathews' most recent list received poor
ratings from their own state boards of education. Many of the schools failed to
make Adequate Yearly Progress under the No Child Left Behind federal mandates.

Mathews nevertheless defends his rankings because they encourage schools to
challenge students -- often beyond their capabilities -- and because his rating
formula is easily understood.

Without a clear performance measure, however, ranking a school by how many tests
it gives is comparable to judging school quality by the number of colors of
paint on its buildings or varieties of fruit offered in its cafeteria.

At face value, the USN&WR and current Newsweek high school rankings appear to do
a better job than the Post.

The U.S. News rankings purport to measure the schools that are best at serving
all their students and were derived in three steps. First, schools are evaluated
as to whether their students perform better than statistically expected based on
the economic mix of the school when compared with other schools in the state.

Second, schools are evaluated as to how their non-Asian minority populations
perform relative to state averages. Finally, schools are judged based on how
well they prepare students for college using results from the International
Baccalaureate (IB.) and Advanced Placement (AP) exams.

Newsweek has modified Mathews' formula, emphasizing what it calls the best
indicators of college readiness: graduation rates, participation in college
-level classes via AP and IB. programs, and acceptance into a two- or four-year
college program.

The top-rated school nationally, according to the USN&WR rankings, is the School
for the Talented and Gifted (TAG) in Dallas. TAG ranks fifth according to
Newsweek and third on the Washington Post list. TAG is a magnet school -- as are
many of USN&WR's, Newsweek's and the Post's top high schools -- generally
accepting only the smartest applicants. So, TAG and many of the "nation's best
public high schools" accept an economic and racial cross-section of academic
all-stars.

Does that mean that TAG is a great high school or that others on the various
lists are great? Not at all. None of the rankings attempt to measure students'
progress, so it's impossible to know how the supposedly best high schools
contribute to students' growth.

Paraphrasing the famous aphorism about the first President Bush, that he was
born on third and thinks he hit a triple, the high schools on the various lists
begin miles ahead of the game and are then judged as if they started along side
all other public high schools. Without a value-added measurement though, the
rankings tell us nothing about how well the schools serve the students they've
picked.

School rankings may sell magazines and newspapers and popularize websites, but
no one should be fooled into thinking that they are good measures of school
quality.

Patrick Mattimore taught high school in the Bay Area for many years and now
lives in Thailand.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              777 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The York Dispatch (Pennsylvania)

                             August 3, 2009 Monday

York College earns 'best' ranking again

BYLINE: ANDREW SHAW The York Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 271 words


Like a team defending its title, York College has retained its position on
Princeton Review's "Best Northeastern Colleges" list of top schools.

"The good part is, it is very heavily based on what students have to say," said
college spokeswoman Mary Dolheimer. "That's particularly rewarding and
encouraging."

Princeton Review is an independent educational service company that releases an
annual list of top schools, by region.

York College is one of 218 schools in 11 Northeast states included on the list;
there are no rankings given to distinguish the top schools. It's almost an
annual tradition in recent years for York to be among those honored. Dolheimer
believes this year's honor
is due in part to the school's upgraded campus facilities and the access to
professors.

According to the Princeton Review, York College students liked the "beautiful
campus," and "intimate" size of the college, which creates small classes and
accessible professors. Students also liked the learning resource center for
extra academic help.

Beyond rankings: Rankings, of course, only go so far, Dolheimer said.

"The success of what York College does is reflected in the alumni," Dolheimer
said. "But this is just one more indicator that we're moving in the right
direction."

Gettysburg College was also included on the Best Northeastern Colleges list. A
book version of Princeton Review's latest list of 640 top schools around the
country is available for purchase Aug. 4.

The 640 colleges named represent about 25 percent of the country's 2,500
four-year colleges.

-- Reach Andrew Shaw at 505-5431, ashaw@yorkdispatch.com or
twitter.com/ydblogwork.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 York Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              778 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                           September 12, 2017 Tuesday

Oklahoma universities ranked among 2018 Best Colleges by U.S. News & World
Report

BYLINE: By K.S. McNutt Staff Writer kmcnutt@oklahoman.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 752 words


Three private universities retain their claim as Oklahoma's highest-ranking
schools in the 2018 Best Colleges report released Tuesday by U.S. News &amp;
World Report.But two public institutions showed the most improvement, climbing
at least a dozen spots from their ranking last year.The 2018 Best Colleges
rankings includes data on more than 1,800 public and private colleges and
universities. It is the 33rd annual list focusing on academic excellence.Best
national universitiesPrinceton University is No. 1 on the Best National
Universities list for the seventh year in a row. Among public schools, the
University of California-Los Angeles moved up one space to tie with the
University of California-Berkeley, which has been the highest-ranking public
university for 20 years.The University of Tulsa finished first in the state at
87 in a three-way tie. The private research university has been a Top 100
research university on the list for 15 years."The University of Tulsa's ranking
is a direct result of our sustained commitment to excellence," said TU President
Gerard Clancy."Our success hinges on TU's ability to engage and empower a
diverse population of students and alumni. Uncovering new talents and honing
their abilities through opportunities such as undergraduate research and
specialized leadership programs allow TU students to thrive in college, in their
careers and in the world," he said.The University of Oklahoma and Oklahoma State
University also are ranked among the Best National Universities.

OSU is at 156 in a three-way tie.For the first time, OU is ranked among the top
100 institutions, coming in at 97 in a six-way tie. OU moved up 14 spots from
111 last year."The hard work and dedication of all members of the OU family have
made this achievement possible," OU President David Boren said. "It confirms the
high quality of education and standard of excellence that have become synonymous
with the University of Oklahoma."The U.S. News rankings emphasize student
outcomes - including graduation and retention rates - which carry the most
weight at 30 percent. Other factors considered are expert opinion, 22.5 percent;
faculty resources, 20 percent; student excellence, 12.5 percent; financial
resources, 10 percent; and alumni giving, 5 percent.Regional rankingsThe report
also lists Best Regional Universities and Best Regional Colleges. Oklahoma is
one of 15 states in the West.Oklahoma City University again is the top state
school on the West list, with a ranking of 27 in a two-way tie.Provost Kent
Buchanan said OCU's standing reflects the university's commitment to providing
high quality education and academic rigor."Our professors are focused on student
success, from giving them personalized educational opportunities to connecting
them with leading employers. We promote the idea of servant leadership,
encourage our students to think creatively and to make positive impacts on the
community," Buchanan said.Also making the Best Regional Universities in the West
list are Oklahoma Christian University and Oral Roberts University, both at 47
in seven-way tie; and Oklahoma Wesleyan University, at 81 in a five way-way
tie.The University of Central Oklahoma is the state's highest ranked public
university on the list. UCO jumped 12 spots from last year to 76 in a five-way
tie."We are appreciative of our peers in the West acknowledging our commitment
to success for our students and in community development and prosperity,"
President Don Betz said.For the 24th consecutive year, Oklahoma Baptist
University is the highest-ranking Oklahoma school on the Best Regional Colleges
list. OBU moved up two spots from last year to 3 in a three-way tie."The U.S.
News &amp; World Report rankings represent and validate the outstanding
performance and achievements of OBU's marvelous faculty, staff and students,"
President David Whitlock said."We are pleased to see that our affordability is
also recognized, with OBU ranked first for Western colleges for our students
having the least debt upon graduation. This is a result of the numerous
scholarship and financial aid opportunities that help make an OBU degree so
affordable."All new freshman at OBU receive a guaranteed minimum $5,000
scholarship per year.Other Oklahoma schools on the list of Best Regional
Colleges in the West and their rankings are St. Gregory's University in Shawnee,
19, and Southwestern Christian University in Bethany, 21.Go online to
www.usnews.com/best-colleges to read more about the 2018 rankings.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved

                              779 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            Business World (Digest)

                           November 19, 2015 Thursday

Trinity College graduates are among the most employable in the World;
Trinity College...

LENGTH: 208 words



HIGHLIGHT: Trinity College Dublin were today celebrating after it was announced
they have some of the most employable graduates in the World.


Trinity College Dublin were today celebrating after it was announced they have
some of the most employable graduates in the World.

This is according to the 2015 Global Employability University Rankings. Trinity
is the only Irish university to appear in the rankings, where it sits at number
119.

The rankings were designed and commissioned by the French Human Resources
consulting agency, Emerging, and administered by German market research firm,
Trendence. They are a valuable tool for employers, but also for students in
choosing their university.

Trinity's Careers Advisory Service Director, Sean Gannon, said the ranking
recognises the university as a source of key talent for international companies
competing aggressively for market share. He said, "The Global Employability
University Ranking confirms what employers both internationally and nationally
value in our graduates - their confidence, problem solving and communication
skills, as well as their global outlook. "The rankings also give added impetus
to the College's strategic planning objective of opening up new conversations
about the curriculum and seeking wider views on 21st century skills and how we
can collaborate with employers to provide them." Source: www.businessworld.ie

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              780 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 18, 2014 Tuesday

UCCS earns honors for military and veteran support

LENGTH: 648  words

DATELINE: Boulder


University of Colorado Boulder has issued the following news release:

Phillip Morris, UCCS Office of Veterans and Military Affairs, (719) 255-3300,
pmorris@uccs.edu
Philip Denman, UCCS, (719) 255-3732, pdenman@uccs.edu

2015_BFV_COLLEGES-150x150COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. - The University of Colorado
Colorado Springs recently earned praise for its support of veterans and
active-duty service members by the Military Times, U.S. News and World Report,
and other agencies advocating for military and veteran students.

In it's second annual rankings of Best Colleges for Veterans, the editors of
U.S. News & World Report listed UCCS as the only public university in Colorado
on its list of best Western regional universities for veterans. UCCS was ranked
17 among public and private universities in the Western United States.

To qualify for the new rankings, the schools must be certified for the GI Bill
and participate in the Yellow Ribbon Program and Servicemembers Opportunity
Colleges Consortium.

In total, there were 311 ranked schools across all 10 U.S. News ranking
categories: National Universities, National Liberal Arts Colleges, Regional
Universities (North, South, Midwest and West) and Regional Colleges (North,
South, Midwest and West). For further details on how the rankings were
calculated, visit http://www.usnews.com/education/best-colleges
/articles/2014/09/08/best-colleges-for-veterans-methodology

To see a full list of the Western regional universities cited by U.S. News,
visit http://colleges.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com/best-colleges/rankings
/regional-universities-west/veterans

In Military Times' Best for Vets: Colleges 2015 list, UCCS was ranked 44 among
140 public, private and online institutions. The University of Colorado Boulder
made the list at 86. For more details and a full list of rankings, visit
http://www.militarytimes.com/story/veterans/best-for-vets/education/2014/11/10/b
est-for-vets-colleges-2015/18798437/
Phillip Morris

Phillip Morris

The list was compiled through extensive research and a data-driven survey that
requires schools to meticulously document the services they provide to veteran
students, as well as data compiled by the U.S. Education Department, including
academic success measures.

"UCCS is fully committed to supporting veteran and military students," Phillip
Morris, director, Office of Veteran and Military Student Affairs, said. "We
believe this effort goes beyond being military friendly, as we know that our
efforts need to encompass best practices and responsive student services so that
UCCS is truly military and veteran supportive - meaning student success,
graduation, placement, and employment are the goals - not just enrollment. The
various military and veteran honors we have received demonstrate the significant
commitment to our veteran and military community, and represent efforts of
staff, faculty, and administrators throughout the university."

Additional honors bestowed to UCCS regarding military and veteran services
include: being named a Military Friendly School for the sixth year by Victory
Media Military Advanced Education's ranking as one of the Top Colleges for
Veterans for 2015, and UCCS's commitment as a Got Your Six Pledge institution, a
pledge signed by Homer Wesley, vice chancellor, Student Success and Enrollment
Management. The pledge represents a holistic effort to support student veterans
through graduation.

The University of Colorado Colorado Springs, located on Austin Bluffs Parkway in
Colorado Springs, is one of the fastest growing universities in Colorado. The
university offers 37 bachelor's degrees, 19 master's and five doctoral degrees.
UCCS enrolls about 11,000 students on campus annually and another 2,000 in
online programs. For more information, visit www.uccs.edu.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              781 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            March 8, 2017 Wednesday

Four Irish universities make world's top 100 in subject-by-subject ranking

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 497 words


All four are in the top 100 for their nursing degrees in the QS World University
Rankings by Subject.

Trinity College Dublin is ranked 36th for nursing, and University College Cork
(UCC), University College Dublin (UCD) and NUI Galway (NUIG) are each ranked
between 50 and 100. This strong performance could be linked to the knowledge of
international employers of Irish nursing graduates.

The QS subjects analysis is based on research papers and citations of work from
individual university academics, as well as responses to surveys of employers
and other academics. It does not factor in staffing levels or funding which have
influenced significant falls for Irish colleges in wider university rankings
since the recession took effect over the last eight years.

UCD outperforms other universities considerably, listed as having 13 subjects in
the top 100 globally. Among them is Ireland s highest-ranked subject, with the
university s veterinary medicine programme up two places since last year to
29th.

Other UCD subjects in the Top 100 in the QS rankings include English language
and literature, archaeology, history, law, politics, and international studies,
and new entrants to the highest tier: philosphy, geography, and sports-related
subjects.

UCD president Professor Andrew Deeks said the rankings appropriately reflect the
standing of its subjects in the Irish context.

They also indicate that the impact of our research is increasing
internationally, despite the continuing funding issue and the constraints to our
autonomy,  he said.

While UCD saw the number of top 100 subjects rise by two from last year, TCD has
just two subjects ranked in the top 100 compared to 16 a year ago.

QS had to backdate TCD s survey responses to cover the 2011 to 2015 period,
instead of the 2012 to 2016 analysis used for other institutions, after it
emerged that there was a significant email campaign from TCD to solicit
participation by employers and academics, which breached QS policies.

This change to TCD s scoring follows issues last year around its performance in
another global ranking. The university s results were withheld from last autumn
s Times Higher Education World University Ranking, when issues arose around its
reporting of research income. The anomalies were corrected in revised figures
issued last month.

UCC s pharmacy and pharmacology provision is also listed in the QS top 100
subject rankings.

Aside from the 18 degrees at UCD, TCD, UCC and NUIG in the top 100, nearly 50
other subjects at these universities and at Dublin City University (three),
Maynooth (two) University of Limerick (UL) and National College of Art & Design
(one subject each) feature in the top 200.

Between these institutions, as well as Dublin Institute of Technology and Royal
College of Surgeons in Ireland, there were 107 courses in the QS Top 300
rankings by subject, up from 97 a year ago. However, due to an expansion in the
analysis, most countries have more subjects ranked than in 2016.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              782 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 18, 2014 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Computer composite pegs Alabama No. 1

BYLINE: Daniel Uthman, @DanUthman, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 421 words


The five formulas that make up the College Football Computer Composite at times
have drastically different valuations of teams.

For example, two of the formulas rank Florida State as the No. 1 team in college
football this week, while another places the Seminoles at No. 15. Two formulas
view Colorado State as a top-16 team, while two others have the Rams in the high
30s or 40s.

But the CFCC computers have never been more certain about the No. 1 team in the
Football Bowl Subdivision. Alabama earned a geometric mean ranking of 1.3195
this week after its win against previous CFCC No. 1 Mississippi State. Alabama's
mean ranking matched the season best that Florida State earned after Week 1 and
Auburn earned after beating LSU in Week 6.

It remains to be seen how the remainder of the CFCC's top four compares with the
College Football Playoff selection committee's fourth rankings set for release
today, but it could be similar. The CFCC has Florida State No. 2, Oregon No. 3
and Mississippi State No. 4.

The computers continue to regard the Southeastern Conference West as the FBS'
strongest division. The SEC West has the highest-ranked one-loss (No. 1
Alabama), two-loss (No. 5 Mississippi), three-loss (No. 10 Auburn), four-loss
(No. 20 LSU) and five-loss (No. 35 Arkansas) teams. Northwestern, which jumped
nine spots  after an overtime win at Notre Dame, is the highest-ranked six-loss
team at No. 63.

The College Football Computer Composite combines five of the computer formulas
used in the former Bowl Championship Series standings to remove the human
element from college football rankings.

It is compiled by taking the geometric mean of rankings formulated by Richard
Billingsley, Wes Colley, Ken Massey, Jeff Sagarin and Peter Wolfe. Among the
metrics feeding the CFCC are wins and losses, strength of schedule, home-field
advantage, recency of game and, in Massey's and Sagarin's case, margin of
victory.

Computer composite top 10

Computers no longer determine college football's championship matchups -- today,
the 12 members of the selection committee, tasked with determining which
Football Bowl Subdivision teams will play for the national title, will release
their fourth College Football Playoff Top 25 -- but that doesn't mean they have
been turned off. Five of the computer rankings that contributed to the Bowl
Championship Series have reunited for the College Football Computer Composite.

See hard copy or online version of USA Today for text of graphic

See the complete ranking at ncaafcomputers.usatoday.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              783 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                            December 27, 1996 Friday

LENGTH: 573 words


WASHINGTON (AP) -- With enrollments and reputations at stake, America's colleges
and universities are facing greater truth-in-labeling pressure from parents,
students and those who rank the schools. Educators and publishers have devised a
way to bring order, and hopefully more scruples, to test scores, enrollment
figures and other yardsticks used as fodder for all those lists of who's No. 1
and who's not: They've developed a standard questionnaire for schools to fill
out. ""I think the whole rankings game has been a problem, but I think the
colleges have helped to create the problem,'' said Maureen Matheson, executive
director of guidance publications at the College Board.

She said she doesn't like the idea of rankings, ""But I think there is an honest
and real need among families for a way of assessing schools.'' School officials
criticize the current ratings system, especially when their institution is
ranked low. But when the news is good, they hastily dispatch press releases to
tout their positive rating. Improving the accuracy and accountability of college
information, including the rankings game, has been discussed for 15 years. But
work on a solving the problems did not begin in earnest until about a year ago
when press reports revealed that some colleges were providing one set of data to
financial rating agencies and another to those writing guidebooks, publishing
rankings or providing college information for books and software. To fix that,
educators have come up with a form to standardize the collection of more than 40
kinds of data commonly requested by publishers, such as U.S. News & World Report
and Money magazine. And to discourage deception or creative number-crunching,
the form is specific about how campus officials should compile these facts and
figures. A final version of the form debuted on the Internet in late October.
And some publishers sent questions from the form to schools this month -- data
that will be in guides next fall. Previously, some schools may have included
foreign students in averaging SAT scores, for example, and others may have
inflated the size of their faculty by adding part-time instructors and
non-teaching researchers. Part of the problem was that publishers have asked
questions a little differently. And the rankings guides have goofed sometimes
too. A data-entry error this year, for instance, caused U.S. News & World Report
to rank American University 121st. Its true ranking was 105th -- 11 slots higher
than the Washington, D.C. school's ranking the year before. Robert Morse,
director of research for ""America's Best Colleges,'' published each fall by
U.S. News & World Report, called the new form an important first step in
providing consistent information to consumers. But not all information can be
cross-checked, he said. ""We can't go into Georgetown University, for example,
and say "Can we audit your test scores?''' he said. David Merkowitz, a spokesman
for the American Council on Education, which represents colleges and
universities, said a group is now studying whether school accreditors should be
asked to verify the schools' answers to questions on the standard form. Arthur
J. Rothkopf, president of Lafayette College, who hosted a forum at his school in
Easton, Pa. in October 1995 to discuss the issue, says some college
administrators continue to have reservations about rankings. But they know
prospective students are reading them.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 1996 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved

                              784 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                             August 5, 2011 Friday

Sobering reality: Army beats Navy, this time around;
Naval Academy pleased with being 6th most sober college, but 1 spot behind West
Point

BYLINE: SCOTT DAUGHERTY; Staff Writer

SECTION: HOMETOWNANNAPOLIS.CO; Naval Academy; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 464 words


It seems Army has found something it is better at than Navy: Notdrinking.

In its annual college survey released this week, The Princeton Review ranked the
U.S. Naval Academy the sixth most "Stone-Cold Sober" school in the country.
While that's a respectable showing, the academy still was beaten out by both the
Military Academy in West Point, N.Y. (No. 5), and the Coast Guard Academy in New
London, Conn. (No. 4).

"We're always gunning for West Point, but we will happily toast our sixth place
... ranking with a glass of sparkling cider," said Lt. Cmdr. William Marks, a
spokesman for the Naval Academy.

Rounding out the top six this year were No. 1 Brigham Young University in Utah,
No. 2 Wheaton College in Illinois and No. 3 Wesleyan College in Georgia. The Air
Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colo., claimed the 13th spot on the list.

Last year, Coast Guard was third, Air Force was fourth, Navy was seventh and

Army was eighth.

The Princeton Reviewsurvey is part of its 2012 edition of "The Best 376
Colleges," which includes 61 other rankings in categories such as best
professors (Wellesley College in Massachusetts), most beautiful campus (Florida
Southern College), best campus food (Wheaton College in Illinois) and highest
financial aid satisfaction (Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania).

Ohio University in Athens, Ohio, topped the list of party schools. The
University of Maryland, College Park, took the 18th spot on that list.

Besides sobriety, the Naval Academy received high marks for accessibility of
professors, low marijuana use, and having a smoothly running administration. It
was No. 4, No. 6, and No. 20, respectively.

The school appreciated the kind words.

"We don't chase rankings, so when we do well it means even more," said Marks,
who graduated from the academy in 1996.

The academy also landed in the top 20 in some ofThe Princeton Review'sless
prestigious categories. It ranked seventh for "least happy students" and 14th
for "dorms like dungeons."

The guide's rankings are based on email surveys filled out by 122,000 students
at more than 370 colleges across the country. On average, about 325 students
from each campus respond. University administrators often call the rankings
unscientific and say they glorify dangerous behavior.

The value in the rankings and school profiles is that they are based on current
undergraduate students submitting information about the colleges they attend,
said Rob Franek,Princeton Reviewsenior vice president-publisher.

The Princeton Review, which is not affiliated with Princeton University, is a
Massachusetts-based company known for its test preparation courses, educational
services and books.

It has put out its best colleges guide since 1992.

---

The Associated Press contributed to this article.

sdaugherty@ capitalgazette.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2011 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              785 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                             May 18, 2013 Saturday

Patrick Mattimore: Rankings don't rank well when it comes to measuring school
quality

BYLINE: By Patrick Mattimore © 2013 Bay Area News Group

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 735 words


Since U.S. News & World Report began ranking colleges 30 years ago, that
magazine has discovered a niche in the ratings industry. USN&WR ranks careers,
hospitals, businesses and world leaders, but the magazine's biggest market has
been its rankings of everything having to do with education -- undergraduate
institutions, doctoral and masters programs, and public high schools.

Of course, given the commercial success of USN&WR's annual college rankings
edition, competitors were bound to spring up. Fifteen years ago, Newsweek
Magazine jumped into the fray by introducing the first national rankings of high
schools.

Two weeks ago USN&WR released its best high school list and this week Newsweek
and the Daily Beast published their annual high school rankings.

While it may be comforting to think that it's possible to qualitatively compare
educational institutions, the reality is that the major rankings are subjective
evaluations based upon largely arbitrary classification schemes. The problem is
that people often ignore the evaluators' suspect methodologies and accept the
ratings at face value.

For many years, Newsweek ranked high schools according to an index developed by
Washington Post education reporter Jay Mathews. The Post continues to use the
Mathews metric, in which schools are ranked based upon how many college-level
tests the schools give. There is no attempt to evaluate how students perform on
the tests, and many of the schools on Mathews' most recent list received poor
ratings from their own state boards of education. Many of the schools failed to
make Adequate Yearly Progress under the No Child Left Behind federal mandates.

Mathews nevertheless defends his rankings because they encourage schools to
challenge students -- often beyond their capabilities -- and because his rating
formula is easily understood.

Without a clear performance measure, however, ranking a school by how many tests
it gives is comparable to judging school quality by the number of colors of
paint on its buildings or varieties of fruit offered in its cafeteria.

At face value, the USN&WR and current Newsweek high school rankings appear to do
a better job than the Post.

The U.S. News rankings purport to measure the schools that are best at serving
all their students and were derived in three steps. First, schools are evaluated
as to whether their students perform better than statistically expected based on
the economic mix of the school when compared with other schools in the state.

Second, schools are evaluated as to how their non-Asian minority populations
perform relative to state averages. Finally, schools are judged based on how
well they prepare students for college using results from the International
Baccalaureate (IB.) and Advanced Placement (AP) exams.

Newsweek has modified Mathews' formula, emphasizing what it calls the best
indicators of college readiness: graduation rates, participation in college
-level classes via AP and IB. programs, and acceptance into a two- or four-year
college program.

The top-rated school nationally, according to the USN&WR rankings, is the School
for the Talented and Gifted (TAG) in Dallas. TAG ranks fifth according to
Newsweek and third on the Washington Post list. TAG is a magnet school -- as are
many of USN&WR's, Newsweek's and the Post's top high schools -- generally
accepting only the smartest applicants. So, TAG and many of the "nation's best
public high schools" accept an economic and racial cross-section of academic
all-stars.

Does that mean that TAG is a great high school or that others on the various
lists are great? Not at all. None of the rankings attempt to measure students'
progress, so it's impossible to know how the supposedly best high schools
contribute to students' growth.

Paraphrasing the famous aphorism about the first President Bush, that he was
born on third and thinks he hit a triple, the high schools on the various lists
begin miles ahead of the game and are then judged as if they started along side
all other public high schools. Without a value-added measurement though, the
rankings tell us nothing about how well the schools serve the students they've
picked.

School rankings may sell magazines and newspapers and popularize websites, but
no one should be fooled into thinking that they are good measures of school
quality.

Patrick Mattimore taught high school in the Bay Area for many years and now
lives in Thailand.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              786 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 13, 2015 Friday

Ohio: On a Roll for Rankings

LENGTH: 393  words

DATELINE: Columbus


Baldwin Wallace University, The State of Ohio has issued the following news
release:

These rankings complement a series of additional ones BW achieved over the past
year and bring to life the University's mission of providing undergraduate and
graduate students with exceptional learning opportunities and career
preparation.

Online Programs Score U.S. News Rankings
Meeting the needs of today's students who seek convenient education options, BW
has been offering MBA and MAEd programs in an online format since 2011. The
programs, which feature small classes, dynamic peer-to-peer discussions and
intense faculty support, are taught by the same full-time faculty who teach BW
courses on campus.

BW was cited on U.S. News & World Report's national list of "Best Online MBA
Programs" and "Best Online Graduate Education Programs." Criteria for selection
to the list include admissions selectivity, reputation for excellence among peer
institutions, and academic and career support services offered to students.

"Best College Value" Placement by Kiplinger's
Having been cited on the Kiplinger's list in past, BW again appears on its 2015
"300 Best College Values" ranking. Culled from public and private four-year
1,200 U.S. schools, the Kiplinger's list rates schools on academic quality, cost
and financial aid.

Top "College Choice"
Appearing on a 2015 list of "Top 50 Midwestern Regional Universities," Baldwin
Wallace earned accolades by College Choice for its academic reputation,
financial aid offerings, overall cost, and success of graduates in the post-
college job market.

The independent college search and rankings website also placed BW among the top
50 online MBA and graduate business programs in the nation for factors
corresponding to reputation and affordability.

More Rankings Marking Success
Earlier this year, Baldwin Wallace was recognized on three lists of distinction
compiled by US News & World Report and achieved a national ranking on the new
outcomes-based Educate to Career (ETC) list. BW also was selected for inclusion
to Washington Monthly's 2014 Best Master's Universities as well as the
magazine's Best Bang for Buck list. BW also is listed among Forbes 650 Top
Colleges and Princeton Review's Best Midwestern Colleges.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              787 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 23, 2013 Friday

University of Louisiana at Lafayette ranked in national top 10 for positive
impact

LENGTH: 344  words

DATELINE: Baton Rouge


University of Louisiana System has issued the following news release:

The University of Louisiana at Lafayette is one of the best universities in the
nation at helping low-income students earn degrees.

That's according to Washington Monthly magazine, which has ranked UL Lafayette
among the top 10 national universities in its social mobility category. The
magazine's rankings measure, "what colleges are doing for the country,"
according to its website.

Since 2005, Washington Monthly has published annual rankings of four types of
institutions: liberal arts colleges, baccalaureate colleges, master's
universities and national universities.

Its rankings are based on three factors. The first is social mobility, which
gives colleges credit for enrolling many low-income students and helping them
earn degrees. The second recognizes research production, particularly at schools
whose undergraduates go on to earn doctorates. The third is service.

The social mobility category measures the number of students who receive federal
Pell Grants and their graduation rates. "The more expensive college becomes, the
more students are encouraged to see higher education as a mere return on
investment. The students in our best colleges are taught by example and design
to look beyond themselves and give back," wrote the magazine on its site.

The University of Texas at El Paso was No. 1 in the social mobility category,
which also included Arizona State University and Rutgers University in the top
10. The University of California, San Diego were rated best overall among 281
universities. UL Lafayette's overall ranking was 165.

Washington Monthly is nonprofit magazine covering United States politics and
government that's based in Washington, D.C. Washington Monthly College Rankings
focuses on key research outputs, the quality level and total dollar amount of
scientific grants awarded, the number of graduates going on to earn doctoral
degrees and the number of graduates that later participate in public service.

For more information please visit: http://www.ulsystem.edu.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              788 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Duluth News-Tribune (Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 18, 2006 Friday

Duluth colleges rank high

BYLINE: Duluth News-Tribune, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 9429 words


Aug. 18--In a now familiar action, U.S. News & World Report has given high marks
to Duluth's two four-year colleges.

The magazine's annual ranking of colleges placed the College of St. Scholastica
21st and the University of Minnesota Duluth 40th among Midwestern universities
offering master's degrees.

Last year St. Scholastica placed 22nd and UMD placed 44th.

U.S. News released its annual ranking of approximately 1,400 accredited schools
nationwide today. The magazine considers the schools' academic reputation,
graduation rate, student retention, class sizes, student-faculty rate and alumni
support in ranking the colleges.

"This continued recognition is a reflection of the excellence of our faculty and
staff," St. Scholastica President Larry Goodwin said in a news release. "We view
it as an affirmation of what we also hear from accrediting agencies, from
satisfied students and from supportive alumni and friends."

In addition to its overall placement, UMD saw two of its programs win places on
the magazine's nationwide rankings of specific programs.

Its engineering program tied for 36th place in a peer assessment of "Best
Engineering Programs Where the Highest Degree is a Bachelor's or a Master's."

Its business program tied for 150th place among "Best Undergraduate Business
Programs."

U.S. News ranked Northland College in Ashland 25th among Midwestern
comprehensive colleges offering bachelor's degrees.

"We are excited that U.S. News continues to recognize our success in providing
students a challenging and comprehensive education," President Karen
Halbersleben said in a news release. "Receiving this recognition for the third
year in a row reinforces the value of an environmental liberal arts College and
shows that Northland College succeeds in recruiting high-caliber students and
retaining an outstanding faculty."

The University of Wisconsin-Superior placed in the ranking's third tier of
Midwestern universities offering a masters.

Copyright (c) 2006, Duluth News-Tribune, Minn. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune
Business News. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call
800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The
Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20060818-DU-0818-Duluth-colleges-rank-high

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DU


                       Copyright 2006 Duluth News-Tribune

                              789 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Raffles is back on top in JC ranking

                               November 30, 1996

M. Nirmala


Hwa Chong and Temasek share second spot, while Victoria slips to fourth place

RAFFLES Junior College is back in the lead as the top JC in this year's ranking
of 14 colleges.

Last year, it lost its lead to Victoria Junior College, the first time it had
been toppled from this top spot since the academic ranking was introduced in
1992.

Victoria slipped to the fourth spot this year, a position it now shares with
National Junior College.

Both Hwa Chong and Temasek tied for second position this year.

Results of the annual ranking exercise were released by the Education Ministry.

The 14 JCs were ranked according to the calculation known as mean subject-grade.

An A grade receives one point; a B grade, two, and so on. The points of all the
students in each college are then added up and divided by the number of subjects
taken.

The lower the score, the better.

RJC's mean subject grade was 1.5, while Hwa Chong and Temasek's were trailing
close behind at 1.6

"We are very happy with the news," said Madam Teo Ah Tiok, RJC's head of
languages department, who is acting for the principal.

VJC's principal Lee Phui Mun said: "I'm not disappointed. Each cohort is
different, and performance is related to these differences.

"Last year was a bonus for us.

"This year's cohort still gave us dividends. More than 98 per cent got into
universities and we are still among the top five JCs."

Temasek's principal Robert Tan was elated because his JC leapt from fifth
position last year to second spot this year.

"We are very blessed to have students who are capable and self-motivated," he
said.

"Their performance has been enhanced by the climate we have here.

"We have good teachers, good programmes and good tradition. We believe in doing
well."

His students did well in several subjects.

For example, the percentage of students who scored As or Bs in geography went up
from 55.2 per cent in 1994 to 93.3 per cent.

Catholic JC moved up from the 12th position last year to the eighth place while
Yishun went up two rungs from its 14th spot last year.

Noorman Abdullah, 19, who completed his A levels at Yishun JC last year and is
now doing his National Service, said: "The results will boost the morale of
students. It's great news."

SECTION: News Focus; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 587 words

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: We're Number 1: Raffles JC students celebrate their rise back to the
top spot in the year's ranking. -Picture by TERENCE TAN.

                 Copyright 1996 The Straits Times Press Limited

                              790 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    Times-News (Burlington, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 1, 2014 Friday

Elon named as most green campus in state in survey

BYLINE: Isaac Groves, Times-News, Burlington, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 360 words


Aug. 01--ON THE WEB

Read more: http://colleges.niche.com/rankings
/facilities/top-greenest-campuses/#ixzz39AX0LUhO.

Elon University is the greenest college in North Carolina, according to a
website ranking.

The site ecollegefinder.com created a map with the greenest colleges in the 50
states based on rankings from College Prowler, a college-ranking website. It
scored colleges on a 1-to-10 scale. While the site does not clearly explain the
criteria for the ranking, it offers this explanation:

"Green living is steadily becoming the norm. These days, schools boast a high
number of LEED-certified facilities and sustainability initiatives. The
following colleges and universities are striving for a more eco-friendly
future."

Elon scored 9.41 out of 10, landing it at 24th out of 1,366 colleges ranked on
the greenest-colleges list.

Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design certification is an
internationally recognized standard for sustainable design and construction.
Buildings receive the distinction based on criteria for sustainable site
consideration, water efficiency, energy efficiency, materials use and disposal,
indoor environmental quality and innovation.

Most of the buildings going up in the university's sustained building boom are
LEED-certified. As of last fall, the university had built 18 buildings, over
five years, adding up to 250,000 square feet of LEED-certified construction,
said Elaine Durr, the university's sustainability director.

Not only does the university have a campus sustainability director, but also a
sustainability master plan, competitions to save electricity, and online
"dashboards" to monitor electrical usage in different buildings on campus.

College Prowler also ranks Elon and other colleges -- apparently using student
reviews -- on matters such as academics (Elon scored an A -- ) to campus
strictness (B), girls (A -- ), guys (A), nightlife (B) and weather (B+).

This week's featured ranking on College Prowler was "most drug-free campus."
Elon was ranked 1,256 out of 1,338.

___ (c)2014 Times-News (Burlington, N.C.) Visit Times-News (Burlington, N.C.) at
www.thetimesnews.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20140801-BT-Elon-named-as-most-green-campus-in-state-in-survey-0801-20140801

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                           Copyright 2014 Times-News

                              791 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday

UNF Physical Therapy Graduate Program Ranks No. 1

LENGTH: 560  words

DATELINE: Jacksonville


Florida State College at Jacksonville has issued the following news release:

The University of North Florida's Physical Therapy Graduate Program is the best
physical therapy graduate program in the country, according to
GraduatePrograms.com, an online graduate school resource for prospective
graduate students of all ages.

UNF ranked No. 1 in the Top 25 Physical Therapy Graduate Program rankings and
was one of only two Florida state universities listed in the ranking. The
University of Central Florida was ranked No. 11.

"I am very proud of this No. 1 ranking by GraduatePrograms.com, an organization
that allows students to rate and review their program," said Dr. Pam Chally,
dean of the Brooks College of Health at UNF. "We are delighted and honored that
students at UNF appreciate the quality of their education."

Program rankings, compiled using data gathered between Sept. 1, 2012, and March
31, encompass reviews posted by more than 70,000 students participating in over
1,600 graduate programs nationwide.

"The physical therapy program at UNF is competitive and challenging, yet gives
off a very welcoming vibe," said a physical therapy graduate student currently
enrolled in the program. "All the professors are willing to help students in
anything they need and are willing to take time out of their days to assist in
any way possible."

Graduateprograms.com assigns 15 ranking categories to each graduate program at
each graduate school. Rankings cover a variety of student topics such as
academic competitiveness, career support, financial aid and quality of network.

For a given graduate program, rankings are determined by calculating the average
score for each program based on the 15 ranking categories. These scores are then
compared across all ranked schools for that program and are translated into a
final ranking for that specific graduate program.

The Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) is a post-baccalaureate entry-level degree
conferred upon successful completion of an entry-level professional education
program. The DPT is a professional clinical doctorate that prepares the graduate
to practice physical therapy. The three-year program at UNF gives students
in-depth knowledge of the basic and clinical sciences relevant to physical
therapy and prepares students to understand, correlate and apply theoretical
foundations of knowledge to the practice of physical therapy.

This latest recognition comes on the heels of UNF receiving several other
national designations, including 2015 Best Online Nursing School by Affordable
Colleges Foundation, Kiplinger's Personal Finance's 2015 Best Value Public
College, the 2015 Best Online College by the Affordable Colleges Foundation,
Best Regional University, 2015 Best Online Programs and Best Online Graduate
Education Program, all by U.S. News& World Report, Best in the Southeast and
Best Value College, both by Princeton Review, Best College by College Factual
and Top Florida College for Return on Investment by The College Database, to
name a few.

UNF, a nationally ranked university located on an environmentally beautiful
campus, offers students who are dedicated to enriching the lives of others the
opportunity to build their own futures through a well-rounded education.


In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              792 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                  August 22, 1997, Friday, Correction Appended
                                  ALL EDITIONS

Survey ranks Emory near top;
Annual college ratings: While Emory came in at ninth overall, Georgia Tech was
ninth in the public university listing.

BYLINE: Christina Cheakalos; STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 06C

LENGTH: 608 words


Emory University was ranked one of the best universities nationally, the second
year in a row in the Annual Best College Guide compiled by U.S. News & World
Report, to hit the newsstands Monday.

University administrators were decidedly happier over this ranking than one that
came 24 hours earlier by the Princeton Review naming the school among the
nation's Top 10 party schools.

Georgia Tech administrators, too, were celebrating their ninth place ranking,
among all public universities.

Like winning actors who hold tightly to their Oscars, while decrying the
unfairness of judging one performance against another, Emory and Georgia Tech
administrators Thursday made similar pronouncements.

"It is gratifying to know that our academic reputation keeps climbing, but like
other fine universities, Emory can never be precisely measured and ranked," said
Rebecca Chopp, the university's provost.

"You have to be careful in analyzing any rankings in education or elsewhere
because rankings don't tell the whole story," said Bob Harty, Tech's director of
communication. "But over a period of time, the trends do indicate progress or
lack of progress."

Both universities have climbed significantly in the rankings. Emory, which also
had the highest "value-added" factor among the top 25 universities, moved from
19th place last year, to ninth place in national ranking of public and private
universities. Georgia Tech went from the 13th best public university to ninth
(When combining public and private schools in a "national" category, Georgia
Tech ranks 41st, up from 48th last year.)

Five years after being listed as one of the top regional universities, Georgia
Tech now ranks in the list of the best national universities category.

Emory showed up in several of the categories: 23rd in academic reputation (30th
in 1996), 19th in student selectivity (22nd in 1996), 8th in faculty resources
(20th in 1996), 16th in overall financial resources (17th in 1996), 9th in
graduation and retention (12th in 1996).

U.S. News arrives at its ranking in the national category by combining
statistical data with the results of an academic reputation survey of college
presidents, provosts and admissions directors.

There are seven distinct criteria to establish a statistical analysis of
quality, the publication says: academic reputation, student retention, funds
devoted to instruction and faculty, the screening selectivity of applicants, the
total resources dedicated to education, the value added by the university and
alumni giving rate.

U.S. News placed colleges and universities into one of four categories: national
universities, national liberal arts colleges, regional universities, and
regional liberal arts colleges.

In other categories, Emory University ranks as having among the highest
graduation rates (93 percent); Georgia State University on the other hand, ranks
among the lowest (33 percent).

Among the national liberal arts colleges, Oglethorpe University (50 percent),
Morehouse (51 percent) and Wesleyan (45) colleges have among the lowest
graduation rates.

In terms of specific majors, for engineering, Georgia Tech ranks among the
highest nationally in proportion of engineering majors, Clark Atlanta University
ranks among the highest proportion of business majors. Kennesaw State University
and Brenau University ranked among the highest in the southern region for
business majors. For those with the highest proportion of education majors in
the southern region are: Armstrong Atlantic State University, Georgia
Southwestern State University, Brenau University and Valdosta State University.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 26, 1997

CORRECTION: IN AN ARTICLE FRIDAY ON U.S. NEWS & WORLD REPORT'S COLLEGE RANKINGS,
DARTMOUTH WAS LEFT OUT OF THE LIST OF TOP UNIVERSITIES NATIONALLY. DARTMOUTH AND
THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA WERE IN A TIE FOR SEVENTH PLACE.

GRAPHIC: Color Photo and teaser box: (Appeared in the Constitution Metro Edition
on
 C/01 with reference to this C/02 story) Courtyard area of Emory
 University in Atlanta. / Christina Cheakalos / Staff

                    Copyright 1997 The Atlanta Constitution

                              793 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                US Official News

                           November 21, 2015 Saturday

University of the Pacific ranked No. 3 best-value college in California

LENGTH: 515 words

DATELINE: Lahore



    Pacific: University of the Pacific has issued the following news release:



  University of the Pacific may be a better value than USC or UCLA, according to
two new rankings from The Economist and The Brookings Institution.





 Both rankings use data from the first-ever White House College Scorecard to
assess universities' strengths in preparing students for economically prosperous
lives.



 The Economist ranked Pacific No. 12 nationally, ahead of Yale and NYU. The
Brookings Institution gave Pacific a score of 98 out of 100, in a tie with MIT
and 15 other institutions.



 On both rankings, Pacific emerged as the No. 3 best value in California.



 The two rankings used different formulas to analyze College Scorecard and other
datasets for insights into college value, defined as the gap between what
graduates earn and what they might have earned had they gone elsewhere.



 According to the Scorecard, Pacific alumni earn a median salary of $66,400 a
decade after they enter college. In comparison, USC alumni earn $66,100 and UCLA
alumni earn $59,200.  (The Brookings Institution rankings also crunched data
from the Payscale 2015-2016 College Salary Report.)



 But while Pacific alumni significantly out-earn their peers from similar
institutions with similar student characteristics, alumni of USC and UCLA, for
example, earn significantly less.



 Business students in the classroom



 Other conclusions of the new rankings:



     Liberal arts majors and strong earnings can go hand in hand. "Aggregate
results from colleges do not back up warnings about studying the humanities,"
The Economist reported. The magazine noted that graduates of colleges with
strong liberal arts programs "do not earn anomalously low salaries."



     Diverse universities tend to deliver better value. "Mixing with many races
appears to be good for the wallet," The Economist reports.



     The Brookings Institution rankings showed that colleges offering the most
"value-added" specialize in high-paying fields of study, such as medicine,
business and engineering.



     The Economist concluded that a pharmacy degree "is perhaps the safest route
to the upper middle class in America today."



 University of the Pacific in May celebrated a graduating class that included
more than 200 pharmacists, speech-language pathologists and physical therapists;
more than 200 attorneys; and about 190 dentists, dental hygienists and
orthodontists. Another 900 students earned bachelor's degrees in liberal arts,
education, business, engineering and computer science.



 Pacific undergraduates are 27.3 percent white, 35.6 percent Asian/Pacific
Islander, 17.9 percent Hispanic; 2.7 percent black; and 5.6 percent
multi-ethnic.



 The Economist's first-ever rankings can be found here:
http://www.economist.com/blogs/graphicdetail/2015/10/value-university The
Brooking Institution's Oct. 29, 2015, rankings are posted here:
http://www.brookings.edu/research/reports2/2015/10/29-earnings-data-college
-scorecard-rothwell.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright2015Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              794 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 5, 2013 Saturday

Wentworth Maintains #12 Ranking in U.S. News & World Report

LENGTH: 194  words

DATELINE: Boston


Wentworth Institute of Technology has issued the following news release:

Wentworth Institute of Technology has been ranked by U.S. News & World Report in
two categories as part of the publication's Best Colleges 2014 rankings.
Wentworth maintained its ranking of #12 in the "Regional College North" category
and moved up to #64 (from #69) for the "Best Undergraduate Engineering Programs
(where doctorate not offered)" category, representing the fourth consecutive
year the Institute has placed in the top 100.

The 203 regional colleges that comprise the "Regional College North" rankings
"focus on undergraduate education but grant fewer than half their degrees in
liberal arts disciplines." Regional Colleges are placed into one of four
geographic categories: North, South, Midwest, and West.

The Best Undergraduate Engineering Programs ranking was for accredited programs
whose highest engineering degree offered is a bachelor's or master's. These
undergraduate engineering programs were ranked solely on a peer assessment
survey conducted in spring 2013.

The U.S. News rankings can be accessed at www.usnews.com.

For more information please visit: http://www.wit.edu.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              795 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 16, 2015 Friday

Colorado College, Trinity Move Up in National Rankings

LENGTH: 214 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Shreveport: Centenary College of Louisiana has issued the following news
release:



  Two Southern Collegiate Athletic Conference men's soccer programs raised in
the national rankings this week.





 Colorado College jumped up three spots to No. 18 in the National Soccer Coaches
Association of America (NSCAA) poll this week, while they remained third in the
west region rankings. CC is also receiving votes in the D3soccer.com ranking.
D3soccer Poll NSCAA Poll



 Trinity University moved into the No. 10 spot in D3soccer.com list, earning 567
points. TU is fifth in the NSCAA west region poll.



 Both teams went undefeated this week, with Colorado College posting identical
3-1 victories over Austin College and Centenary College. Trinity shutout both
Southwestern University, 1-0, and Texas Lutheran University, 2-0.



 Colorado College and Trinity will face off for the second time this week, as CC
travels to San Antonio Sunday afternoon. In the first meeting between the two
teams this year, Colorado College earned a 3-1 win at home. This marked the
first time CC has taken down a Trinity men's soccer team since joining the
conference prior to the 2007 season.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com









LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              796 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 28, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Rankings: Penn State is the life of the party

BYLINE: Jillian Berman

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 345 words


Looking for a party? You should be able to find one at Penn State. The school in
University Park, Pa., tops the list of party schools and colleges with the
widest use of beer, says the new edition of The Princeton Review's The Best 371
Colleges.

The book, out today, also features 61 other "top" lists, from the best classroom
experience (Pomona College in Claremont, Calif.) to the best college library
(Harvard in Cambridge, Mass.).

The rankings are "100%" driven by students, says Robert Franek of The Princeton
Review. About 325 students from each of the book's 371 colleges took an online
survey on four basic areas: themselves, academics/administration, quality of
life and other students. Editors averaged the results from each school and
compared the averages to come up with the rankings.

A new category this year is best career services; No. 1 is the University of
Florida, the book says.

Also new:  a list of The Princeton Review's 100 "Best Value" Colleges for 2009,
described in an online database created in partnership with USA TODAY (at
BestValueColleges.usatoday.com). Franek says editors analyzed academic
environment, cost and percentage of students' financial need that was met to
come up with the list.

Availability of financial aid "is needed information for so many college-bound
students and their families, but it's tough information to get," he says.

Outstanding -- in some field

Among No. 1 schools in The Princeton Review's 62 "Top 20" ranking lists:

Students study the most

-- California Institute of Technology

Best athletic facilities

-- University of Maryland-College Park

Most accessible profs

-- U.S. Military Academy (N.Y.)

Most conservative students

-- Texas A&M University

Most liberal students

-- Warren Wilson College (N.C.)

Most politically active students

-- George Washington University (Washington, D.C.)

Least religious Students

-- Bennington College (Vt.)

Race/class relations Friendliest

-- University of Miami (Fla.)

Gay community most accepted

-- New York University

Best town/gown Relations

-- Clemson University (S.C.)

Source: The Princeton Review

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: A BETTER LIFE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              797 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                             August 17, 2007 Friday

Y., Westminster, U. rank high on top-colleges list

BYLINE: Wendy Leonard Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 727 words


Three Utah schools landed among the nation's best colleges and universities on
the 2008 U.S. News & World Report rankings list, made public today.

This year's edition of America's Best Colleges will be published in the
magazine's Aug. 27 issue, which hits newsstands Monday. It ranks 1,400 four-year
accredited colleges and universities on a similar playing field, while putting
them in categories set forth by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of
Teaching, as well as peer review. The rankings are based on a comprehensive and
systematic look at what the institutions offer students and what alumni and
industry professionals believe is the best value.

Brigham Young University ranks highest among Utah schools and garnered the most
placements for the state on the rankings list.

The Provo university comes in as the 79th best national university, dropping
nine spots from its 70th place last year. It also ranked among the top 50 best
business programs, coming in at 38th, while its accounting program ranks third,
behind those at the University of Texas and the University of Illinois.

Both BYU and Westminster College earned high rankings for offering students some
of the best deals in education. BYU placed 26th on the list and Westminster 15th
in the Western states category for providing the best value -- high-quality
programs at a low cost.

Westminster ranks 23rd in the west in the category of best universities offering
master's but not doctorate degrees. The private college placed in the top tier
of schools for the 13th consecutive year.

Officials at the school are pleased with the ranking but don't agree that it's a
proper assessment of what happens at the school.

"We encourage families to also consider many other factors, such as the learning
environment, the majors offered, the quality and accessibility of the faculty,
the campus community and the outcomes achieved by their graduates, either in job
placement or acceptances into graduate schools," said Westminster President
Michael Bassis.

The University of Utah ties for 131st place on the best national universities
list, also landing a spot at 70th for having one of the best engineering
programs. Special mention was given to its service-learning programs, which
requires volunteer work in the community for credit in specific classes. It was
one of only a handful of public colleges listed as an outstanding example of a
program directly linked to student success.

"The Bennion Center's success is the result of university support for our
program and the combined efforts of students, faculty and community agencies
working in partnership to ensure a quality experience," said U. service learning
program director Marshall Welch.

The U. also is recognized by the report for having an undergraduate student
population with one of the least amounts of debt. Forty-six percent of students
graduating from the U. have some college debt, averaging $13,714.

A school with Utah ties -- BYU-Hawaii -- was listed as one of the most diverse
institutions, with 40 percent of its students of Asian-American descent. The
school, located in Laie, hosts a 48 percent international student population.

Rankings are decided after factors such as graduation and retention rates,
faculty and financial resources, and the percentage of alumni donations, are
weighed with peer review, opinions from other university presidents and alumni.
However, this year, Carnegie changed some of their categories, which switched up
the ranking system a little. Military service academies were included for the
first time, and Pell grants were considered in the graduation rate performance
measure.

According to U.S. News & World Report Editor Brian Kelly, the changes in
methodology did not affect the resulting rankings.

Kelly said the rankings are designed as a "first step for prospective college
students and their parents in the complex process of determining with
institution best fits their goals ... our goal is to help equip students and
their families to make a knowledgeable decision based on clear, comparative
research."

Princeton, Harvard and Yale universities were the top three best universities in
the country, spots they've often challenged each other on or tied for.

The complete list of rankings, as well as a college guide, can be found online
at www.usnews.com/colleges. E-mail: wleonard@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

                              798 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                    September 1, 2000, Friday, Home Edition

Emory, Tech, UGA ranked three of nation's best

BYLINE: James Salzer, Staff

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: News; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 339 words

Emory University held its place in the top 20 national universities, and the
Georgia Institute of Technology and the University of Georgia both moved up in
the much-watched annual college rankings put out by U.S. News & World Report.

The magazine's annual guide to America's best colleges hit newsstands this week.

Emory (ranked 18th) and Georgia Tech (35th) both made the guide's listing of the
top 50 national universities. Emory was 18th last year and Tech was 40th. Emory
has been in the top 25 since 1992.

UGA was listed in the second tier of national universities, a category that
included private and public schools. Princeton University was ranked first.

Tech and UGA both made the listing of top 50 public national universities. Tech
was eighth, and UGA was 20th, up from 22nd last year.

Emory officials declined to comment.

UGA President Michael Adams said, "We have been saying for some time that the
University of Georgia is among the best public research universities in the
country. As of all our programs continue to gain recognition, this (ranking) is
just more evidence."

Mercer University ranked ninth among Southern regional universities, while Berry
College was ranked second among Southern liberal arts colleges, Covenant College
in Lookout Mountain was 19th and LaGrange College was 29th.

Emory (16th), UGA (28th) and Tech (34th) made the list of top business programs
in the country. Tech's engineering program was ranked seventh in the country
among schools with doctoral programs, and made the top five in aerospace, civil
and industrial manufacturing engineering.

Although schools that do well like to brag about their rankings, the guide is
often criticized for the weighting scheme used and methodology. The magazine
uses criteria such as academic reputation, graduation and freshman retention
rates, faculty rankings, teacher-pupil ratios, full-time faculty, SAT/ACT
scores, acceptance rate and alumni giving.

> ON THE WEB: To view the entire rankings, go to: www.usnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 The Atlanta Constitution

                              799 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                          The Providence Journal, R.I.

                            August 20, 2004, Friday

U.S. News again gives Providence, R.I., college number-two ranking

BYLINE: By Jennifer D. Jordan

LENGTH: 306 words



Providence College once again ranks number two in the category for best
universities in the north region that grant master's degrees, according to the
influential U.S. News and World Report's college rankings released today.

The private liberal arts college founded by Dominican friars has held the
number-two spot since 1997, with one exception -- 1998 when it shared the
number-one spot with this year's number-one school, Villanova University, in
Pennsylvania. Providence College also ranked first nationally in average
graduation rate -- 85 percent -- and ranked fourth nationally in average
freshman retention rate -- 92 percent.

"We consider the retention rate to be even more important than the graduation
rate," said Ed Caron, vice president of college relations. "In order to improve
yourself, you need to not only recruit top students, but retain them. We devote
an awful lot of time to helping students figure out what is a good fit for
them."

Since Providence College began appearing regularly at the top of the rankings,
applications have more than doubled, and the number of student attending the
college from outside the New England, New York and New Jersey area has risen by
a third, Caron said.

Several other Rhode Island colleges and universities appeared high in the
rankings, including Brown University, which ranked 13th highest among the best
national universities. Bryant College, soon to be Bryant University, ranked 20th
and Salve Regina University ranked 40th out of 83 schools in the best
universities in the north region granting master's degrees. Roger Williams
University ranked 14th for best comprehensive colleges granting bachelor's
degrees for the north region.



-----

To see more of the The Providence Journal, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.projo.com.


LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

KR-ACC-NO: PJ-COLLEGE-RANKING-20040820

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ

               Copyright 2004 Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News
                  Copyright 2004 The Providence Journal, R.I.

                              800 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            October 4, 2016 Tuesday
                                  Main Edition

Emory 17th in ranking of U.S. colleges

BYLINE: From staff reports, Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 164 words



HIGHLIGHT: Wall Street Journal criteria uses student outcomes, resources.


Atlanta's Emory University ranked 17th out of 500 national public and private
universities in a new ranking by The Wall Street Journal and Times Higher
Education. Emory was the only Georgia institution in the top 20 on the inaugural
listing.

Thenewrankingdrewinformation from 15 factors in four categories: student
outcomes, school resources, student engagement and the learning environment
(diversity). It also incorporated results from a survey of 100,000 college
students on questions about student experience and engagement. Its creators say
the new ranking is intended to evaluate colleges "the way prospective parents
and prospective students do."

Emory President Claire E. Sterk said, "I am delighted that this new ranking
recognizes the emphasis we place on priming students for engaging in the world
and lifelong learning."

Other Georgia schools ranked included Georgia Tech, 51; Spelman College, 106;
Mercer University, 197; University of Georgia, 245; and Morehouse College, 331.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2016 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                              801 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 14, 2017 Thursday

Spelman College Earns Several Top Spots in U.S. News and World Report 2018 Best
College Rankings

LENGTH: 383  words



Atlanta: Spelman College has issued the following news release:
Spelman College has made a significant rise in the U.S. News and World Report
Best College rankings released today. Ranked as the No. 1 historically Black
college or university for the 11th year in a row, the College has moved up 11
spaces in the National Liberal Arts Colleges rankings to No. 61, tying with
Agnes Scott College. Spelman is also in the top 50 High School Counselor
Rankings and the top 100 Best Value Colleges.


"Spelman's rise in the Best College rankings is a testament to our stellar
student outcomes and the entire community of faculty and staff, who are
dedicated to student success," said Spelman President Mary Schmidt Campbell,
Ph.D.
Recognition from numerous entities shows that Spelman continues to be on the
ascent as an academic institution focused on the success of its students. As the
highest ranked institution from which Black women science and engineering
doctorate recipients earn bachelor's degrees, according to the National Science
Foundation, Spelman is a strong training ground for women who go on to careers
in which they lead and excel in the fields of science, technology, engineering
and math.
At 77 percent, Spelman's six-year graduation rate is the highest among HBCUs and
more than 30 points higher than the national graduation rate for African
Americans. Spelman's graduation rate exemplifies the College's commitment to
providing a unique and robust educational experience for women of the African
Diaspora. This population includes more than 90 percent of students who receive
financial aid and 50 percent of students who are eligible for the PELL Grant,
many with a family household income of $50,000 or less.
A top Fulbright Fellows producing institution, Spelman has also had Marshall and
Truman scholars in recent years, and according to Open Door, is the only HBCU in
the top 30 colleges in the nation sending the most students to study abroad. The
College is in the top 10 percent of social mobility (moving up two or more
income levels) out of nearly 600 private colleges, as measured by the New York
Times.

 For more about Spelman, visit www.spelman.edu.
 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              802 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 19, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Exile in Guidesville?

BYLINE: By Ann Hulbert.

Ann Hulbert is the author of ''Raising America: Experts, Parents and a Century
of Advice About Children.''

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 9-19-04; Pg.
19

LENGTH: 1015 words


Directions: Solve the following problem, using any available space on the page
(or on your head) for scratch work.

In the 2005 edition of The Princeton Review's popular ratings of 357 colleges,
Marlboro College in Marlboro, Vt., garners a windfall of Top 20 rankings in the
18 categories under the Academics heading, winning the No. 1 spot in Professors
Bring Material to Life; No. 2 in Best Overall Academic Experience, in Class
Discussions Encouraged and in Professors Make Themselves Accessible; No. 13 in
Students Never Stop Studying; and No. 17 in Students Happy With Financial Aid.
But in the new edition of U.S. News & World Report's best-selling ''America's
Best Colleges'' issue, Marlboro College is slotted in the ''third tier'' of
''best liberal-arts colleges,'' with an average freshman retention rate and a
2003 graduation rate (71 percent and 45 percent respectively) that are close to
the lowest in that tier. What does all of this add up to?

A) Proof that college rankings are lucrative but not objective. B) Evidence that
college rankings can be useful, and the more the merrier. C) A reason to go
visit Marlboro College yourself if you want to figure it out. D) All of the
above.

The correct answer, as list- and college-obsessed Americans should know without
coaching, is D. But given the barrage of criticism that has greeted the annual
back-to-school blizzard of college rankings over the past decade, perhaps a
refresher course -- call it two cheers for ratings -- is in order.

The by-now-familiar complaint is that college rankings, which first surfaced as
a popular phenomenon two decades ago, are a pseudoscientific exercise driven by
misplaced commercial and empirical zeal. The ratings have been instrumental in
turning college admissions into a ''battlefield in a brutal competition for
prestige,'' a special college issue of The Atlantic worried last fall. The
upshot is ''marketized'' colleges, under more pressure to inflate their
standings than to improve their educational offerings. No less alarming are
stressed-out kids (and parents) fixated on a narrow array of name-brand schools.
What everybody forgets, critics lament, is that college isn't a trophy in a
cutthroat status game. It's an educational journey, which should start with a
recognition that there are lots of good schools to choose from and no one
''best'' choice to make. Students' quests should be for colleges that ''fit
their needs.''

But if you really want to drum in the message that no snooty hierarchy of
colleges awaits (and play down the reality that 50 highly selective schools are
in a different league from their roughly 2,000 much-less-competitive peers),
what better way than to have a glut of guides dispensing a potpourri of
plaudits? And that's what has become available since 1983, when U.S. News &
World Report inaugurated its numerically intricate roster of academic standings,
spawning a crowd of more populist raters of colleges' virtues.

There's a leveling effect created by a media-driven enterprise that tells you
that Florida A&M was the ''college of the year'' (Time magazine, partnering with
The Princeton Review, the test-prep outfit) the same year, 1997, that Harvard
and Princeton tied for No. 1 national university (U.S. News & World Report). And
how about rating the Top 10 ''best college values'' (as Money magazine has
done), or creating a ''hottest colleges'' collection, which ranges from horsy
Hollins University to M.I.T. (Newsweek, teaming up with Kaplan, this year)?

It is true enough, as opponents of rankings complain, that the quantitative
precision of the purely academic ratings, especially at the tippy top, can seem
arbitrary -- absurd, almost. When Caltech surged from No. 9 to No. 1 in the 2000
edition of U.S. News & World Report's ''best national universities'' list, it
was thanks to a change in the scoring formula for per-student expenditures, not
to any meaningful improvement. But that should be a useful moral for stellar
applicants when they don't get the exact elite acceptance they hope for: who
wins which prize in that pool really is a tossup, not a definitive assessment.
In general, being ''skeptical that the quality of a university . . . can be
measured statistically'' or ''by a single yardstick'' -- as a prominent critic
of rankings, the former president of Stanford, put it -- is a lesson well worth
driving home.

And the proliferation of less-pointy-headed surveys suggests that Americans are
indeed eager to put Ivy League obsession in perspective and take a broader view
of what goes into a college decision. The Princeton Review's Top 20 lists, drawn
from polls of 110,000 students, are unabashedly subjective. The 60-odd
categories of rankings reflect the campus consensus -- not some official verdict
-- on everything from professors and class size to political mood,
extracurricular scene and availability of beer. (It's your call whether
appearing on the Got Milk? list -- scarcity of beer -- is a plus or not.)

What results is a panoply of lists that offer great visibility for lots of
colleges. With so many rankings playing to such different strengths, obscure
schools pop up and get a chance to rub shoulders -- and to share in that Top 20
glow -- with pedigreed places everybody knows. Davidson College is right there
with Dartmouth in Happy Students. The effect is a little like Internet dating's:
possible options surface that a collegebound kid would never come across by
relying on the usual connections.

Nontraditional ''Planet Marlboro,'' as students call the collectively run
Vermont college, is now basking in its prominent spot on the earthly collegiate
map. But as its Web site wisely warns prospective applicants, ''Marlboro College
is not the school for everyone'' -- or even a four-year match for many of the
incoming freshmen who click with the quirky place, as U.S. News & World Report's
attrition rates suggest. In the end, what the motley rankings tell you is
something that others may well not: for all the talk about perfect ''fit,''
second-guessing is the essence of the college quest.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Alyson Aliano
 Getty Images)Chart: ''CAMPUS POLITIES''Students Most Nostalgic for Ronald
Reagan1. Texas A&M University-College Station2. Grove City College3. Samford
University4. Hampden-Sydney College5. Brigham Young University (Utah)Students
Most Nostalgic for Bill Clinton1. Warren Wilson College2. Bard College3. Sarah
Lawrence College4. Hampshire College5. New College of Florida   Source: The
Princeton Review's ''Best 357 Colleges, 2005 Edition''

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company

                              803 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                            August 19, 2010 Thursday
                                  All Editions

Magazine: UMFK among top colleges in region

BYLINE: JEN LYNDS OF THE NEWS STAFF

SECTION: Pg. B2

LENGTH: 612 words

DATELINE: FORT KENT


Just two weeks after it was once again singled out as a "Best Northeastern
College" by The Princeton Review, the University of Maine at Fort Kent was
listed Tuesday in the top tier of "Best Regional Colleges" for 2011 by U.S. News
& World Report.

U.S. News & World Report is a monthly newsmagazine published in Washington, D.C.

The Fort Kent school and the University of Maine at Farmington were ranked among
the top 50 colleges in the north region. UMFK also was ranked among the 15 best
regional public colleges in the listings. The college has made the list in the
past as a third-tier-status university, but it has risen to top-tier status this
year.

"We are very excited about this," Wilson G. Hess, president of UMFK, said
Wednesday. "This is well-deserved and it is about time that we received this
recognition. It is quite elite company to be among the 15 best regional public
colleges in this listing. It says a lot about what we are doing here
academically and as far as offering a high-quality education at a quality
price."

The U.S. News rankings are based on measures that education experts have
proposed as reliable indicators of academic quality, according to the magazine's
website. Some of the indicators used for the ranking included peer assessment,
faculty resources, alumni giving, and graduation and retention rates. Scores for
each measure were weighted as a percentage to arrive at a final overall score.

The 2011 U.S. News rankings are geared toward helping prospective students and
their families identify colleges and universities that are right for them.

Founded in 1878, UMFK educates about 1,200 undergraduate students on its 52-acre
campus.

Hess said college officials have not yet analyzed the data from this year's
ranking compared with previous U.S. News rankings, but Hess said the college
improved on its previous tier rankings for a number of reasons.

"We have seen significant improvements in our four-year retention rates," he
explained. "We also have seen an increase in our general reputation, and our
alumni giving is up as well. We are seeing more alumni contribute to our annual
campaign. Those are just some of the things, but I think we are also in the news
more now for the good things we are doing, as far as being recognized for six
years by the Princeton Review and by U.S. News."

The news comes on the heels of the Fort Kent college being one of 218
institutions The Princeton Review recommends in its "Best in the Northeast"
section of its website feature, "2011 Best Colleges: Region by Region," which
was posted Aug. 2 on PrincetonReview.com.

According to UMFK's profile on the Princeton Review's website, students at UMFK
said the college provides them with a high-quality education at a state school
with "very reasonable tuition."

Students also said Fort Kent's location makes it "a natural choice for students
of forestry, wildlife sciences, and environmental studies."

The profile pointed out that UMFK students said the school's proximity to the
rich forests and waterways of the St. John Valley allow them to go on field
trips just five minutes away from the campus and be "completely submerged in
hands-on experiences that will aid students when filling out their resumes."

Hess said UMFK faculty and staff were "thrilled" with the news about the ranking
.

"This will really start out our fall semester on a high note," Hess said
Wednesday. "For some time, folks have known that our small campus, excellent
faculty, and committed staff provide a wonderful educational opportunity for the
people of the St. John Valley. UMFK now is being justly recognized as a
university of regional excellence."

jlynds@bangordailynews.com

538-6567

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Bangor Daily News

                              804 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            April 23, 2014 Wednesday

North Logan charter school earns gold medal in U.S. News rankings

LENGTH: 544 words


By Benjamin Wood

Deseret News

NORTH LOGAN - InTech Collegiate High School continued a three-year winning
streak Tuesday by being named the top high school in Utah by U.S. News.

The North Logan charter school, where students simultaneously earn high school
and college credit, also made significant gains in the national rankings,
jumping from 652nd place to 162nd place and earning the state's only "gold
medal" ranking.

"It's not easy," InTech Principal Jason Stanger said of the school's continued
success. "It's hard work by our teachers and our students, and we're seeing it
pay off."

The new U.S. News rankings are based on data from the 2011-12 academic year and
reflect college-readiness indicators such as Advanced Placement tests and the
percentage of students testing proficient on year-end assessments.

The rankings are also designed to reward a school for serving its entire student
body, with consideration taken for the performance of students who are
economically disadvantaged or in minority groups.

At InTech, which partners with Utah State University to enroll students in
college courses, roughly one-third of students are the first members of their
family to attend higher education, and 78 percent graduate with some college
credit Stanger said.

"They can actually start into a major if they know what they want to do and
leave InTech with two or more years of college if they choose to do that," he
said.

Stanger said the school is looking to expand its enrollment, currently 180
students, and could potentially move to a larger building in the next few years.
He also said administrators are working with USU to offer more early college
programs, particularly in science, technology, engineering and mathematics,
collectively referred to as STEM.

InTech is one of six early college high schools in Utah. Another, the Academy
for Math, Engineering and Science, was ranked second in the state and No. 1,032
in the nation by U.S. News.

The other schools in the state's top five are Cedar City High School and St.
George's Desert Hills High School, both traditional public schools, and American
Leadership Academy, a charter school in Spanish Fork.

Cedar City High School Principal John Dodds, who joined the school last year,
said creating an atmosphere of college readiness is a focus of Iron County
schools. He also said his staff has worked to provide students with educational
opportunities.

"I think this is the highest we've been," Dodds said of the rankings. "It makes
you feel a part of something special."

Mark Peterson, spokesman for the Utah State Office of Education, said that with
any ranking system, the results are dependent on the specific criteria and
methodology selected by the sponsor.

But Peterson added that the new report from U.S. News suggests the state will
continue to improve in the rankings, as lawmakers have recently passed
legislation to fund the ACT for all students and to mitigate the costs of AP
tests for low-income families.

The state has also seen an overall improvement in proficiency scores,
particularly among Hispanic students, over the past several years, which should
be reflected in future U.S. News rankings.

"We see this as good news going forward," Peterson said.

Email: benwood@deseretnews.com

Twitter: bjaminwood

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

                              805 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 18, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Annual College Rankings Released

BYLINE: ADAM EMERSON, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 659 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


UF AND USF MOVE UP OFTEN-DISPUTED LIST

By ADAM EMERSON

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - The University of South Florida and the University of Central Florida
swapped spots in the anticipated - and often derided - college rankings released
today from U.S. News and World Report.

USF improved its standing among the magazine's list of 248 best national
universities, climbing from the fourth of four "tiers" of schools to the third.
UCF dropped from the third tier to the fourth.

The universities see-saw in the rankings each year.

In a "ranking obsessed society ... any movement in a positive direction is a
sign of progress," said Robert Spatig, USF's admissions director.

USF's progress was in its test scores. Incoming students' SAT and ACT results
were much higher in 2005 - the year U.S. News examined - than they were the
previous year.

Admissions standards also are rising at UCF, but they likely stepped up a year
too late for the magazine. Administrators at the Orlando university spent
Thursday reviewing their results, but said last year's more generous acceptance
rate probably cost them points.

In 2005, UCF accepted 62 percent of its 21,000 applicants, university spokesman
Tom Evelyn said. The year before, when it was ranked higher, the university
accepted just 55 percent of all applicants.

Students looking to enter UCF this fall had a harder time. The university
accepted about 46 percent of the 24,000 who applied, Evelyn said. Administrators
will send that number to U.S. News editors this year, along with the higher SAT
scores those students brought.

Not everybody cooperated with the magazine. Florida A&M University, mired in
financial troubles and declining enrollment numbers in recent years, refused to
fill out the U.S. News survey, according to the magazine. Instead, editors
relied on data FAMU submitted to the magazine in previous years and on numbers
the school sent to federal agencies. Officials at FAMU could not be reached for
comment Thursday.

FAMU, which is listed among the best master's universities, fell from No. 58 in
the southern region to the third tier of schools this year. It wasn't clear how
its decision to withhold information from U.S. News affected its ranking. But
few colleges are gutsy enough to do the same.

But many ask, how much do families care about college rankings? USF's Spatig
said he hears few questions about the university's U.S. News standing.

Vicki Friedfeld, of Dix Hills, N.Y., said she and her son, Jacob, examined a
college guide published by Barron's last year. She expected him to choose an
arts college in the New York area. In the end, a friend at the University of
Miami lured Jacob to Florida, where he will start as a freshman at USF.

"He wanted to get to Florida," Friedfeld said.

The U.S. News rankings this year bore few other surprises. The University of
Florida is, once again, the top-rated public university in Florida, scoring No.
47 on the list of best national universities, up three spots from last year.
Florida State University scored No. 110, down one spot from the previous year.

(CHART) MAKING THE GRADE

In its guide to America's best colleges, U.S. News and World Report today
released these rankings of some Florida universities:

Best National Universities

47. University of Florida

110. Florida State University

Third Tier (No numerical ranking was provided)

University of South Florida

Fourth Tier

Florida Atlantic University

Florida International University

Nova Southeastern University

University of Central Florida

Best Liberal Arts Colleges

86. New College of Florida

Third Tier

Eckerd College

Best Master's Universities

Southern Region

5. Stetson University

36. University of Tampa

47. University of North Florida

56. University of West Florida

Third Tier

Florida A&M University

Florida Gulf Coast University

Reporter Adam Emerson can be reached at (813) 259-8285 or
aemerson@tampatrib.com.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDUCATION

GRAPHIC: CHART
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved

                              806 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                             August 19, 2005 Friday

Colleges downplay magazine rankings

BYLINE: Michele Steinbacher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 649 words


NORMAL -- Both Twin City universities held steady in U.S. News and World
Report's annual college rankings released Thursday.

Illinois State University continued to rank between 125th and 180th among 248
peer institutions, while Illinois Wesleyan University slipped from 53rd to 55th
among 215 liberal arts colleges. Lincoln College in Lincoln and Normal and
Eureka College in Eureka were not ranked.

Officials at both universities said the rankings should play only a part in a
student's search for the right institution to attend.

"It should be one very small element in their decision," ISU President Al Bowman
said, calling ISU's continued small climbs in the rankings "incredibly
exciting." He said they reflect progress ISU has made over the past 10 years.

"The most important key is finding the right fit. You can't determine that from
a spreadsheet," said Bowman.

For the fourth year in a row, Illinois State University sits among the third
tier of national doctoral universities.

For many years previously it was in the fourth tier. Third- and fourth-tier
schools aren't ranked numerically.

IWU spokesman Jeff Hanna shrugs off the slight drop for his university, noting
the school's overall rating score of 62 is the same its been for several years.
The rankings are based on the relative scores each school received for a variety
of academic and financial factors.

He said the school pays attention to data from subcategories, but not overall
rankings because the list tends to be a game of musical chairs, with rankings as
far apart as 10 slots being separated by statistically insignificant decimal
points.

ISU improved in subcategories of freshman retention rate, six-year graduation
rate, number of classes under 20 students, and SAT/ACT scores.

The continued strengthening of its position compared to Tier 2 and Tier 3
institutions is "another example of the extraordinary progress Illinois State
University has made in the last decade," said Bowman.

He pointed to a successful freshmen year experience and ISU's ability to offer
smaller classes as examples.

Hanna called the U.S. News rankings' an inadequate indicator of a school's
strength, but said individual categories can show future students some details
about schools.

But a total number, which U.S. News uses to rank each school is not useful, he
said.

"These are data points that we look at, but you can't add them up and come up
with a total number," he said.

The U.S. News figures look at some important factors such as freshmen retention
rate and graduation rate, he said. But the data fails to yield a total picture
of what students gain at each institution.

"You can't quantify the experience" students get at different universities, said
Hanna. Positive points often don't make it into the data, he said.

For example, research faculty members undertake on the IWU campus isn't
measured.

U.S. News surveys more than 1,400 higher education institutions for the annual
report.

On the NetFor more details on the report, see www.usnews.com

----------

College rankings

U.S. News and World Report on Thursday released its annual college ranking data.
Following are some of the data considered in the rankings. The Twin City
universities in different categories.

Illinois State University

Avg. freshman retnetion rate           82%

2004 graduation rate                        62%

No. of classes under 20                   29%

No. of classes of 50 or more           10%

% of full-time faculty                          91%

Freshmen in top 10% of class         11%

Illinois Wesleyan University

Average freshman retention rate      92%

2004 graduation rate                          81%

No. of classes under 20                     59%

No. of classes of 50 or more               2%

% of full-time faculty                             88%

Freshmen in top 10% of class            52%

-------------

Source: U.S. News and World Report

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2005 The Pantagraph

                              807 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 18, 2015 Friday

The Measure of a University

LENGTH: 417  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Berrien Springs: Andrews University has issued the following news release:



  The measure of Andrews University is evaluated in a number of ways each fall,
from rankings of the University and its programs compared to other colleges and
universities nationwide, to its annual fall census--a number that's measured
each September about a week and a half after fall registration closes.





 Increasingly, the University also turns to an annual count called IPEDS:
Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System. This report takes an annual
snapshot of how many students Andrews University--and each postsecondary
institution in the United States--educates in the span of a school year.





 U.S. News Best Colleges



 For many students and their families, though, rankings themselves are what
often receive the most attention.



 U.S. News Best Colleges, one of the oldest and most established list of
rankings, is the one to which most students and families return each year to get
a sense of how various schools measure up among the approximately 3,000
four-year universities and colleges that currently operate in the United States.




 In the 2016 U.S. News Best College's rankings, Andrews University was again the
only Adventist university ranked as a national university, coming in as #175 out
of 276.



 Andrews University was again recognized as the second most ethnically diverse
university in the nation, tied with St. John's University in Queens, New York,
University of Houston and University of Nevada, Las Vegas. It was also ranked as
having the seventh highest percentage of international students, tied with
University of California, San Diego.



 The University was included in a number of other U.S. News rankings, including
A+ Colleges for B Students, Best Grad Schools rankings for Physical Therapy and
Social Work, as well as listings in Best Education Schools, Best Nursing Schools
and Best Psychology Programs.



 Online offerings were also recognized, with listings for Best Online Education
Programs and Best Online Graduate Education Programs. In addition, Andrews'
online MBA program was ranked as #114 in the nation.





 Forbes.com



 Forbes publishes an annual Top Colleges list, which ranks Andrews University as
#597 out of 650 top universities and colleges overall. It also includes Andrews
in its listings for top research universities, private colleges and grateful
graduates.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com







LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              808 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Globe (Worthington, Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 7, 2010 Tuesday

Education Briefs: Sept. 4, 2010

BYLINE: Laura Grevas, The Daily Globe, Worthington, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 288 words


Sept. 07--MW Pipestone ranks among top colleges

WORTHINGTON -- A national publication has ranked six two-year colleges in the
Minnesota State Colleges and Universities system among the top 50 community
colleges in the country. The annual ranking of "America's Best Colleges" was
published in the September/October issue of Washington Monthly magazine, which
has been ranking community colleges since 2007.

Minnesota West Community and Technical College, Pipestone campus, ranked No. 30
on the list of Top Community Colleges in the country.

The rankings are based on data provided by the Community College Survey of
Student Engagement, established by the Community College Leadership Program at
The University of Texas at Austin, and graduation data from the U.S. Department
of Education. Student engagement data comes from surveys of students at 650
community colleges.

Local woman studies at BWCA

ORANGE CITY, Iowa -- Laura Huls, Worthington, a freshman at Northwestern
College, Orange City, recently participated in a program called Portage.

The Portage experience focused on experiential learning in the Boundary Waters
Canoe Area Wilderness. Students canoed and camped in the area for a week and
completed service work at the Grand Portage Ojibwe Indian Reservation on Lake
Superior.

To see more of The Daily Globe, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.dglobe.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Daily Globe, Worthington, Minn.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail services@mctinfoservices.com, or
call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States, call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100907-QG-Education-Briefs-Sept-4-2010-0907-20100907

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QG


                         Copyright 2010 The Daily Globe

                              809 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 1, 2015 Sunday

Jersey Colleges Pay EDITORIAL

BYLINE: EDITORIAL

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 389 words


Who knew?

US News & World Report's annual rankings of American universities has long been
deemed the gold standard of the genre. And by its criteria four New Jersey
universities achieved largely undistinguished rankings.

The highest was Rutgers (New Brunswick) at 70. This was followed by Stevens
Institute of Technology (76), Seton Hall (126) and New Jersey Institute of
Technology (149). Respectable, but nothing to write home about.

But Business Insider didn't let it rest there. It sought to find the most
underrated colleges in America. And it figured that the best way to measure this
was to "look for schools that had relatively low rankings on the US News list
but whose students had high mid-career salaries." The salary info came from the
PayScale College Salary Report, which ranks colleges and universities based on
their graduates' mid-career earnings.

When the Business Insider folks ran the numbers, guess what they found?

The most underrated college in America is the New Jersey Institute of
Technology. Not only are most NJIT grads "employed immediately after
graduation," 10 years into their careers, the average salary of an NJIT alum
clocks in at $98,000 a year.

Not bad. And those other three Jersey schools fared pretty well here as well:
Stevens ($124,000), Rutgers ($90,400) and Seton Hall ($89,000). Surely these
salary figures make the schools more attractive to would-be applicants who might
not have been impressed looking at the US News & World Report rankings.

We're not saying there's anything wrong with the US News & World Report rankings
- or even that the Business Insider rankings are better. But we believe the
salary information provided here is something most people would want to know.
Given how much Americans are being asked to shell out for a college degree that
is no longer the ticket to the middle class it once was, no one measure will
suffice.

As we have said all along, one of the glaring omissions of American college life
is how little real information students and their parents have about what they
are getting in exchange for the tens of thousands they pay in tuition.

So kudos to the New Jersey Institute of Technology for the value it provides.
And kudos to Business Insider for reminding us how much we need new ways of
ranking our colleges and universities.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              810 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   The Times-Tribune (Scranton, Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          September 22, 2016 Thursday

BRIEF: Area colleges receive 'best value' rankings

BYLINE: Sarah Hofius Hall, The Times-Tribune, Scranton, Pa.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 113 words


Sept. 22--SCRANTON -- U.S. News and World Report has named area colleges to its
best value list. The list accounts for schools' overall rankings, cost of
attendance and financial aid. The annual Best Colleges rankings were released
last week, though the best value list was not updated until Wednesday.

Regional universities in the north on the best value list include: Marywood
University, 18th; University of Scranton, 22nd; Misericordia University, 25th;
King's College, 30th and Wilkes University, 34th.

-- SARAH HOFIUS HALL

___ (c)2016 The Times-Tribune (Scranton, Pa.) Visit The Times-Tribune (Scranton,
Pa.) at thetimes-tribune.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160922-YT-BRF-Area-colleges-receive-best-value-rankings-0922-20160922

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YT


                        Copyright 2016 The Times-Tribune

                              811 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 22, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY Top 25 coaches' poll;
College football

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 13C

LENGTH: 687 words


Times p.m. Eastern.

1. Ohio State (8-0)

Points: 1,498 (58 first-place votes). Previous ranking: 1. This week: Saturday
at No.22 Penn State (ABC, 8). Last week: Beat Michigan State 24-17.

2. Boston College (7-0)

Points: 1,412 (2). Previous ranking: 2. This week: Thursday at No.9 Virginia
Tech (ESPN, 7:30). Last week: Idle.

3. LSU (7-1)

Points: 1,319. Previous ranking: 5. Next game: Nov.3 at No. 24 Alabama. Last
week: Beat then-No.19 Auburn 30-24.

4. Oklahoma (7-1)

Points: 1,306. Previous ranking: 4. Next game: Nov.3 vs. Texas A&M. Last week:
Beat Iowa State 17-7.

5. Oregon (6-1)

Points: 1,225. Previous ranking: 6. This week: Saturday vs. No.8 Southern
California (FSN, 3). Last week: Beat Washington 55-34.

6. West Virginia (6-1)

Points: 1,134. Previous ranking: 7. This week: Saturday at Rutgers (ABC, noon).
Last week: Beat Mississippi State 38-13.

7. Arizona State (7-0)

Points: 1,089. Previous ranking: 12. This week: Saturday vs. No.20 California
(FSN, 10). Last week: Idle.

8. Southern California (6-1)

Points: 1,060. Previous ranking: 9 (tie). This week: Saturday at No.5 Oregon
(FSN, 3). Last week: Beat Notre Dame 38-0.

9. Virginia Tech (6-1)

Points: 1,052. Previous ranking: 11. This week: Thursday vs. No.2 Boston College
(ESPN, 7:30). Last week: Idle.

10. Kansas (7-0)

Points: 911. Previous ranking: 15. This week: Saturday at Texas A&M (ESPN2, 7).
Last week: Beat Colorado 19-14.

11. Florida (5-2)

Points: 906. Previous ranking: 14. This week: Saturday vs. No.19 Georgia at
Jacksonville (CBS, 3:30). Last week: Beat then-No.13 Kentucky 45-37.

12. South Florida (6-1)

Points: 813. Previous ranking: 3. This week: Saturday at Connecticut (ABC,
3:30). Last week: Lost to Rutgers 30-27.

13. Missouri (6-1)

Points: 790. Previous ranking: 17. This week: Saturday vs. Iowa State. Last
week: Beat then-No.21 Texas Tech 41-10.

14. Hawaii (7-0)

Points: 617. Previous ranking: 16. This week: Saturday vs. New Mexico State.
Last week: Idle.

15. Kentucky (6-2)

Points: 604. Previous ranking: 13. This week: Saturday vs. Mississippi State.
Last week: Lost to then-No.14 Florida 45-37.

16. Texas (6-2)

Points: 527. Previous ranking: 18. This week: Saturday vs. Nebraska (ABC, 3:30).
Last week: Beat Baylor 31-10.

17. South Carolina (6-2)

Points: 474. Previous ranking: 8. This week: Saturday at Tennessee (ESPN, 7:45).
Last week: Lost to Vanderbilt 17-6.

18. Virginia (7-1)

Points: 466. Previous ranking: 24. This week: Saturday at North Carolina State
(ESPNU, 4:30). Last week: Beat Maryland 18-17.

19. Georgia (5-2)

Points: 402. Previous ranking: 20. This week: Saturday vs. No.11 Florida at
Jacksonville (CBS, 3:30). Last week: Idle.

20. California (5-2)

Points: 397. Previous ranking: 9 (tie). This week: Saturday at No.7 Arizona
State (FSN, 10). Last week: Lost to UCLA 30-21.

21. Michigan (6-2)

Points: 325. Previous ranking: not ranked. This week: Saturday vs. Minnesota
(ESPN Classic, 3:30). Last week: Beat Illinois 27-17.

22. Penn State (6-2)

Points: 294. Previous ranking: 25. This week: Saturday vs. No.1 Ohio State (ABC,
8). Last week: Beat Indiana 36-31.

23. Auburn (5-3)

Points: 179. Previous ranking: 19. This week: Saturday vs. Mississippi. Last
week: Lost to then-No.5 LSU 30-24.

24. Alabama (6-2)

Points: 177. Previous ranking: not ranked. Next game: Nov.3 vs. No.3 LSU. Last
week: Beat then-No.22 Tennessee 41-17.

25. Wisconsin (6-2)

Points: 105. Previous ranking: not ranked. This week: Saturday vs. Indiana. Last
week: Beat Northern Illinois 44-3.

Dropped out: No.21 Texas Tech (6-2, lost to then-No.17 Missouri 41-10), No.22
Tennessee (4-3, lost to then-unranked Alabama 41-17), No.23 Cincinnati (6-2,
lost to Pittsburgh 24-17).

Others receiving votes: Boise State (6-1) 103, Rutgers (5-2) 96, Connecticut
(6-1) 75, Purdue (6-2) 37, Texas Tech (6-2) 28, UCLA (5-2) 21, Clemson (5-2) 17,
Cincinnati (6-2) 10, Texas A&M (6-2) 6, Fresno State (5-2) 5, Wake Forest (5-2)
5, Brigham Young (5-2) 4, Kansas State (4-3) 3, Maryland (4-3) 3, Oklahoma State
(5-3) 2, Vanderbilt (4-3) 2, Illinois (5-3) 1.

The USA TODAY Board of Coaches is made up of 60 head coaches at Division I-A
institutions. All are members of the American Football Coaches Association.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              812 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           The Ledger (Lakeland, FL)

                          September 09, 2006 Saturday

POLK COLLEGES GET HIGH MARKS;
EDUCATION

BYLINE: JULIA CROUSE The Ledger

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 630 words


LAKELAND -- Polk County's colleges and universities still rank among the best in
the country, according to U.S. News & World Report's annual rankings of colleges
and universities.

Warner Southern College and Southeastern University maintained their respective
positions for a third year. But Florida Southern College moved up by one spot to
be the eighth Best Comprehensive College focused on providing bachelor's
degrees.

The 2007 edition of ''America's Best Colleges'' hit newstands in late August.

Princeton University pulled ahead of Harvard University as the best national
university after three years of tying for the top spot. Yale University still
trails in third place.

The magazine categorizes schools by the most advanced degree each offers and by
geographic region. The rankings are decided by a range of self-reported factors,
including peer assessment, graduation and retention rates, student/faculty ratio
and financial resources.

Critics of the rankings system call it arbitrary and an invalid indicator of
educational value. Many accuse the rankings of perpetuating elitism in top
universities and making it more difficult for low socioeconomic or minority
students to get a quality higher education.

Still, colleges across the country vie for higher status because the magazine is
widely read nationally by prospective students and potential donors.

Florida Southern moved up one slot to be the South's eighth Best Comprehensive
College in the bachelor degree division.

To warrant the increase, the school improved its alumni giving rate, freshman
retention rate and top SAT score. It also increased its admission selectivity
and reduced the number of students in classes.

Warner Southern College maintained its ranking in the third tier of the south's
Best Comprehensive College in the bachelor degree category, as did Southeastern
University in the fourth tier of the same category. There are no individual
place rankings within these tiers.

The rankings also noted Florida Southern as the South's sixth best value in the
comprehensive colleges, bachelor's degree category. The school lists 68 percent
of its students receiving a need-based grant for a 46 percent discount of total
cost. After the discount, the average cost at FSC is $15,587.

Warner Southern got similar kudos for being a school that graduates students
with the least amount of debt. At the Lake Wales school, 42 percent of students
graduate owing an average of $7,869.

In comparison, 83 percent of the Class of 2005 at Bethune-Cookman College in
Daytona Beach owed an average of $26,740. Bethune-Cookman was listed as its
graduates having the most debt for a comprehensive college, bachelor's degree,
in the South.

The University of Florida rose three places to share 47th place in Best National
Universities. The others ranked 47th are Pennsylvania State University --
University Park, University of California -- Davis, University of California --
Santa Barbara, and University of Texas -- Austin.

UF also ranked 13th in the Top 50 Public National Universities, up from 16 last
year.

The University of Miami also moved up a space and ranked 54th. Florida State
University, however, slid by one to 110th place.

The University of Central Florida ranked in the fourth tier of Best
Comprehensive Colleges compared with the third tier last year. But the
University of South Florida moved up from fourth tier to third tier.

New College of Florida in Sarasota was listed as the No. 1 public liberal arts
school, up from No. 3 last year. It currently ranks 89th in the country.

Rollins College retained its No. 1 spot as the south's Best University --
master's degree division. Stetson University dropped by one to be No. 5 in the
same category.

Julia Crouse can be reached at julia.crouse@theledger.com or 863-802-7536.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


             Copyright 2006 Lakeland Ledger Publishing Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              813 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          November 11, 2015 Wednesday

BRIEF: College Football Playoff: Tide moves to No. 2 in latest rankings

BYLINE: Marq Burnett, The Anniston Star, Ala.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 109 words


Nov. 11--TUSCALOOSA -- After a 30-16 win Saturday over LSU, Alabama jumped to
No. 2 in this week's College Football Playoff rankings.

The Crimson Tide opened at No. 4 last week while LSU started out at No. 2. In
the rankings released tonight, the Tigers are now No. 9.

Clemson, which defeated Florida State, remained at No. 1. Ohio State is at No. 3
and Notre Dame is at No. 4.

Alabama will travel to Starkville, Miss., to face No. 17 Mississippi State on
Saturday. Kickoff is set for 2:30 p.m. on CBS.

___ (c)2015 The Anniston Star (Anniston, Ala.) Visit The Anniston Star
(Anniston, Ala.) at www.annistonstar.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20151111-AO-BRF-College-Football-Playoff-Tide-moves-to-No-2-in-latest-
rankings-1111-20151111

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AO


                        Copyright 2015 The Anniston Star

                              814 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 12, 2017 Tuesday

Alfred University cited for having one of nation's top graphic design programs

LENGTH: 254  words



New York: Alfred University has issued the following news release:
Alfred University has been named in a new ranking as having one of the top
undergraduate graphic design programs in the country.


College Choice released its most recent rankings of colleges and universities
and Alfred University was ranked 10th in the Top 50 under the category of "Best
Bachelor's Degrees in Graphic Design." College Choice offers numerous free
online resources to help students in their college search, including unique
student-centered college rankings, admissions advice, scholarship and financial
aid information.
Although Alfred University does not specifically offer a bachelor's degree in
graphic design, it does offer a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree with a
concentration in graphic design, through the School of Art and Design's Division
of Expanded Media.
In the College Choice rankings, Alfred is listed behind top-ranked Maryland
Institute College of Art, Yale University, Carnegie Mellon University and other
notable art institutions like Rhode Island School of Design, California
Institute of the Arts, and Otis College of Art and Design.
Alfred appears ahead of 11th-ranked Cleveland Institute of Art, along with
California State University-Los Angeles, Arizona State University, Rutgers
University, University of California-Berkeley, UCLA, Rochester Institute of
Technology, and Syracuse University.


In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              815 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 16, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Ranking colleges is more than an academic exercise

BYLINE: Dennis Kelly

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 1357 words


Ithaca College in Ithaca, N.Y., ranks No. 11 as a northern regional university
in the hot-selling copy of America's Best Colleges that hits newsstands Monday.

And that puts its president, Jim Whalen, on the horns of a dilemma. He disdains
attempts to rank colleges, but admits that his own college marketers will
probably tout the ranking in their publications.

"You don't want to damage your institution" by not sending in information for
rankings or promoting yourself if the ranking's good, Whalen says. "Somebody
told me, 'Get real, Jim. That's the way it is.' "

Indeed, rankings of college quality have become a way of life for media and
colleges. The former often find lists are big sellers. The latter, like movie
studios, may not think much of the reviewers, but will put good reviews to work
for their schools.

-- Money magazine just named best college buys - ranking schools on best value
for tuition dollar.

-- Princeton Review has a student guide to 306 colleges that includes rankings
for fun - biggest jock school, worst dorm food, worst libraries (a category
called "Bring your own books").

"I think there's kind of a bottomless appetite for ratings," says Robert Atwell,
president, the American Council on Education. "And the simpler the better."

The big dog of the pack is the U.S. News & World Report rankings in America's
Best Colleges, the eighth annual edition of which is out Monday. It's run by
blunt-talking Mel Elfin, a virtual household name among college presidents.

College officials often argue that colleges are too complicated to rank like
toothpaste in Consumer Reports. Elfin responds that toothpaste costs "two or
three bucks" a tube but education can run upwards of $ 100,000 a person.

"It doesn't mean because something is difficult that one doesn't try," Elfin
says. "This is what I thought the academic world is all about."

The survey started in 1983 with rankings based solely on college presidents
rating fellow colleges on reputation. The howl that followed (on grounds that
college presidents couldn't be expected to know much about all colleges) led
U.S. News to add objective criteria - faculty-student ratio, endowments, quality
of students - but a quarter of the score is still based on reputation.

College officials credit U.S. News with being responsive to complaints, but many
still don't like the ratings edition, sometimes jokingly referred to as the
college swimsuit issue.

"It has improved and they have listened," Atwell says. "But it is still a
misbegotten exercise, the effects of which are mischievous at best."

College leaders say students deserve information, but object to attempts at
rating schools with that information. "It's silly," for instance, to rank
Princeton percentage points ahead of Yale, Atwell says.

"The idea of being No. 1 or No. 2, that's sort of in the culture," Whalen says.
"But in colleges, it's very difficult to do that. I always tell people it's
important to go to the campus, talk to students, get a feel for the place."

Elfin agrees that no matter what a school's rating, students should make sure
it's the right match for them. But it's the colleges' attitude that they should
be exempt from such rankings that bothers him.

"Colleges and universities do not believe that the law of economics applies to
them," he says. "They have to learn that the law of economics applies inside and
outside the campus gates."

College officials admit ratings have an impact on applications and reputations.
Atwell suspects some college officials get called on the carpet if rankings
aren't good. At the same time, presidents whose schools do well are inclined to
use that kudos in their marketing, he says.

"It's a fact of life, not because it's good, but because it's the American way,"
Atwell says. "If it sells, it must be good."

Best national universities

 1 Harvard University (Mass.)

2 Princeton University (N.J.)

3 Yale University (Conn.)

4 Massachusetts Institute of Technology

5 Stanford University (Calif.)

6 Duke University (N.C.)

7 California Institute of Technology

8 Dartmouth College (N.H.)

9 Columbia University (N.Y.)

10 University of Chicago

11 Brown University (R.I.)

12 Rice University (Texas)

12 University of Pennsylvania

14 Northwestern University (Ill.)

15 Cornell University (N.Y.)

16 Emory University (Ga.)

17 University of Virginia

18 Vanderbilt University (Tenn.)

19 University of Notre Dame (Ind.)

20 Washington University (Mo.)

21 University of Michigan at Ann Arbor

22 Johns Hopkins University (Md.)

23 University of California at Berkeley

24 Carnegie Mellon University (Pa.)

25 Georgetown University (Washington, D.C.)

Source: America's Best Colleges

Best national liberal arts colleges

 1 Amherst College (Mass.)

2 Williams College (Mass.)

3 Swarthmore College (Pa.)

4 Wellesley College (Mass.)

5 Pomona College (Calif.)

6 Bowdoin College (Maine)

6 Haverford College (Pa.)

8 Davidson College (N.C.)

9 Wesleyan University (Conn.)

10 Carleton College (Minn.)

11 Middlebury College (Vt.)

12 Claremont McKenna College (Calif.)

13 Smith College (Mass.)

14 Bryn Mawr College (Pa.)

15 Washington and Lee University (Va.)

16 Vassar College (N.Y.)

17 Grinnell College (Iowa)

18 Colgate University (N.Y.)

19 Oberlin College (Ohio)

20 Colorado College

21 Bates College (Maine)

22 Trinity College (Conn.)

23 Colby College (Maine)

24 College of the Holy Cross (Mass.)

25 Bucknell University (Pa.)

Source: America's Best Colleges

Best regional universities

NORTH

1 Villanova University (Pa.)

2 Fairfield University (Conn.)

3 Alfred University (N.Y.)

4 University of Scranton (Pa.)

5 Trenton State College (N.J.)

6 Manhattan College (N.Y.)

7 St. Michael's College (Vt.)

8 LaSalle University (Pa.)

9 Loyola College (Md.)

10 Hood College (Md.)

SOUTH

1 University of Richmond (Va.)

2 Stetson University (Fla.)

3 Rollins College (Fla.)

4 Mercer University (Ga.)

5 Centenary College of Louisiana

6 Samford University (Ala.)

7 Loyola University (La.)

8 James Madison University (Va.)

9 Appalachian State Univ. (N.C.)

10 The Citadel (S.C.)

MIDWEST

1 Valparaiso University (Ind.)

2 Creighton University (Neb.)

2 Drake University (Iowa)

4 University of Dayton (Ohio)

5 Calvin College (Mich.)

6 Butler University (Ind.)

6 John Carroll University (Ohio)

8 University of Evansville (Ind.)

9 Bradley University (Ill.)

10 Drury College (Mo.)

WEST

1 Trinity University (Texas)

2 Santa Clara University (Calif.)

3 Loyola Marymount Univ. (Calif.)

4 Linfield College (Ore.)

5 Gonzaga University (Wash.)

6 Calif. Poly at San Luis Obispo

7 St. Mary's College of Calif.

8 Whitworth College (Wash.)

9 University of Redlands (Calif.)

10 Seattle Pacific University (Wash.)

Source: America's Best Colleges

Best regional liberal arts colleges

NORTH

1 Susquehanna U. (Pa.)

2 LeMoyne College (N.Y.)

3 Elizabethtown College (Pa.)

4 Stonehill College (Mass.)

5 Lebanon Valley College (Pa.)

6 St. Anselm College (N.H.)

7 Messiah College (Pa.)

8 King's College (Pa.)

9 Lycoming College (Pa.)

10 Grove City College (Pa.)

SOUTH

1 Lyon College (Ark.)

1 Roanoke College (Va.)

3 Emory & Henry College (Va.)

4 Columbia College (S.C.)

5 Mary Baldwin College (Va.)

6 John Brown University (Ark.)

7 Maryville College (Tenn.)

8 Louisiana College

9 Milligan College (Tenn.)

10 Carson-Newman College (Tenn.)

10 Florida Southern College

MIDWEST

1 St. Mary's College (Ind.)

2 Hillsdale College (Mich.)

3 Marietta College (Ohio)

4 Ohio Northern University

5 St. Norbert College (Wis.)

6 Millikin University (Ill.)

7 Taylor University (Ind.)

8 Otterbein College (Ohio)

9 Mount Union College (Ohio)

10 Augustana College (S.D.)

WEST

1 Evergreen State College (Wash.)

2 Pacific Union College (Calif.)

3 Oklahoma Baptist University

4 Concordia University (Calif.)

4 LeTourneau University (Texas)

6 Texas Lutheran College

7 Northwest Nazarene College (Idaho)

8 College of Santa Fe

9 George Fox College (Ore.)

10 Schreiner College (Texas)

Source: America's Best Colleges

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Education

See info boxes at end of text; See related stories; 01D, 04D

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              816 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             August 17, 2007 Friday
                                  ALL EDITION

UW SLIDES TO 38TH IN U.S. NEWS RANKINGS

BYLINE: By JEFF RICHGELS The Capital Times

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 766 words


The University of Wisconsin-Madison slipped to 38th in the U.S. and eighth among
public universities in the highly publicized and controversial annual rankings
by U.S. News & World Report.

The UW was 34th in the U.S. and seventh among public universities last year.

The rankings are based partly on the judgments of deans and senior faculty who
responded to an invitation to nominate peer institutions on a scale of 1
(marginal) to 5 (distinguished). The formula includes variables such as
graduation and retention rates, faculty and financial resources, and the
percentage of alumni donating money to their alma mater. The biggest single
variable -- and the most controversial -- is a reputation assessment by peer
institutions.

"National rankings like these are just one of many factors that students and
their families should consider when choosing the right university," UW-Madison
Provost Patrick Farrell said in a statement. "While we slipped slightly in the
rankings this year, UW-Madison is consistently cited among the nation's best
public research universities in this and numerous other national surveys. That
reputation is important to the entire state of Wisconsin and is something we
must strive to protect."

A downward trend in the faculty resources ranking for the UW does raise cause
for concern, Farrell said. This category measures faculty-student ratios,
percentage of doctorate holders in the classroom, class sizes and faculty
compensation. The UW's ranking has dropped from 60th in 2004 to 74th in the
current rankings. U.S. News does not reveal its compensation calculations, but
that statistic would likely account for the decline because all other UW data in
this category have remained relatively constant.

"To an extent, these faculty resources rankings mirror some of the challenges we
have faced with offering competitive salaries and retaining our best faculty,"
Farrell said. "The overall quality indicator in these rankings peer assessment
would place us much higher in this list, but low rankings in areas like faculty
resources reduce our overall ranking. One interpretation is that UW-Madison is
very effective in providing a high quality education with fewer resources than
our peers."

Princeton holds the overall top spot the eighth straight year the private, New
Jersey school has either tied for or held the top slot alone.

Just like last year, Princeton was followed by Harvard at No. 2 and Yale at No.
3 in the rankings. As usual, a few schools moved up or down a slot, but there
were no major changes. Stanford was No. 4, followed by the California Institute
of Technology and the University of Pennsylvania tied for fifth.

No Big Ten universities made the overall list of leaders out of the 258 national
doctoral universities. Among public universities, the University of Michigan was
the top Big Ten school and the only Big Ten school ahead of the UW at third,
behind only the University of California-Berkeley and the University of
Virginia.

The rankings, which will hit newsstands Monday in the magazine's annual
"America's Best Colleges" guide, are facing particularly vocal complaints this
year from a group of colleges and educators working to develop an alternative to
the system.

So far, the group led by education activist Lloyd Thacker hasn't formally
enlisted any of the top-ranked schools. But the magazine has responded to one
complaint: that the rankings punish schools for enrolling low-income students.
For the first time this year, U.S. News is factoring the percentage of students
receiving Pell grants into its calculation of a school's "graduation rate
performance."

Also new this year, the magazine has included the service academies. The U.S.
Naval Academy is ranked No. 20 in the liberal arts college category, and the
U.S. Military Academy is No. 22. The U.S. Air Force Academy leads the list of
"Best Baccalaureate Colleges" in the western region.

The UW College of Engineering ranked 13th overall, down from 12th last year, and
seventh among public universities. The chemical engineering program was ranked
fifth.

The UW undergraduate business program moved up one spot to 12th among all U.S.
business schools and seventh among public university business schools.

In addition, two programs within the UW School of Business maintained their top
five rankings: The real estate program was ranked second and the insurance/risk
management program was rated third.

The UW's marketing program ranked ninth, the finance program ranked 13th, the
accounting program 17th, the management program 20th, and international business
24th.

jrichgels@madison.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  The Associated Press contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: UW-MADISON UNIVERSITY COMMUNICATIONS The undergraduate business program
at the UW-Madison, housed in Grainger Hall, moved up to 12th overall and seventh
among public university business schools in the latest U.S. News & World Report
rankings.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              817 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 11, 2013 Wednesday

New York: CCNY Climbs 18 Notches in U.S. News Best Colleges Rankings

LENGTH: 483  words

DATELINE: Albany


The City University Of New York, The State of New York has issued the following
news release:

The City College of New York climbed 18 places in the U.S. News & World Report
Best Colleges 2014 rankings, placing 43rd in the Regional Universities (North)
category. In addition, CCNY ranked eighth among public institutions in that
region.

"The significant rise in our U.S. News ranking is evidence of the dedicated work
of our outstanding faculty and staff, the continuous success of our amazing
students, and the strong support from the communities we serve," said CCNY
President Lisa S. Coico. "In addition, it amplifies the recognition that City
College recently received for its academic excellence from The Princeton Review
and Forbes."

U.S. News derives its rankings from quantitative measures that education experts
recommend as reliable indicators of academic quality as well as its own research
into what matters in education. It gathers data from colleges and universities
on 16 indicators of academic excellence that are grouped into seven weighted
areas: graduation and retention rates, assessment by peers, faculty resources,
student selectivity, financial resources, graduation rate performance and alumni
giving.

This year the magazine made several changes to its methodology, including:
o  Reducing the weight assigned to high school class rank and giving slightly
more weight to scores on standardized tests, such as the SAT and ACT;
o  Applying the graduate rate performance indicator - the difference between
actual and predicted graduation rates - to regional universities and colleges
for the first time, and
o  Reducing the weight for assessment by peers to 22.5 percent from 25 percent
for regional colleges and universities.

City College falls into U.S. News' regional universities category, which
consists of institutions that offer a broad range of undergraduate programs,
some master's degree programs but few, if any, doctoral programs. It had a
predicted six-year graduation rate of 30 percent but an actual rate of 42
percent. Because of its higher-than-expected graduation rate, CCNY scored high
on graduation rate performance, which accounts for 7.5 percent of the total
score.

Four other institutions - Queens College, Misericordia University, Salve Regina
University and St. Francis University - tied with CCNY at 43rd in the Regional
Universities (North) category. Queens College also shares eighth place with CCNY
among public institutions in the group.

Earlier this summer, City College was included for the second consecutive year
in The Princeton Review 378 Best Colleges 2014 Edition and was one of the top
New York public colleges and universities on Forbes' annual America's Top
Colleges list. CCNY climbed 232 notches from its 2012 ranking on the Forbes list
to 137th among all U.S. colleges and universities.

For further information please visit: http://www1.cuny.edu/

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              818 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                             August 22, 2008 Friday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Drexel's new rankings bring smiles to campus

BYLINE: By Susan Snyder; Inquirer Staff Writer

SECTION: PHILADELPHIA; P-com News; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 485 words


Officials at Drexel University were smiling yesterday.

Just one day after a little-known publication ranked it the ugliest campus - a
notoriety that Drexel officials quickly decried as outdated and unfair - the
much better known U.S. News and World Report's rankings gave it quite a boost.

It ranked sixth in "up and coming" national universities, a new category in the
annual rankings. And it climbed 19 spots in the overall rankings for best
national universities, to 89th. Robert Morse, director of data research for the
magazine, said such a large jump was "atypical."

"We are delighted, and this is real," Drexel president Constantine Papadakis
said.

He was especially pleased with the up-and-coming designation, which recognized
schools that have made the "most promising and innovative changes in academics,
faculty, students, campus or facilities."

"What they said . . . is that those universities may not be at the top of the
rankings yet, but they are tops for innovation, and I think this characterizes
Drexel so well," said Papadakis, who has led Drexel to develop medical and law
schools and, most recently, a graduate school program in California.

This week, Drexel was named the ugliest campus by Radar, a New York-based online
and print pop magazine, which cited cracked sidewalks and structural blight.

For the U.S. News report, schools are ranked on a number of variables, including
graduation and retention rates, faculty and financial resources, and alumni
donations. A reputation assessment by peer institutions also is included.

Also in the rankings, which will hit newsstands Monday in the magazine's
"America's Best Colleges" guide, Ursinus College was ranked second in
up-and-coming liberal arts schools. Yet the school fell from 69 to 81 in overall
rankings of liberal arts schools, a puzzling development.

Ursinus president John Strassburger said the up-and-coming designation - based
solely on assessments from peer institutions - likely reflected the school's
record year for inquiries and applications.

But the rankings have been controversial among colleges, which question the
methodologies. And Ursinus' drop in the overall rankings, Strassburger said, may
have to do with that.

"We think that our actual place in the rankings reflect that many of our peer
colleges did not vote this year because they were protesting the U.S. News
reputational survey," he said, "and also that this discrepancy shows the
inadequacies inherent in the reputational survey and, thereby, the rankings."

There wasn't much movement of note for other area schools. Princeton University
dropped to second among national universities, yielding to Harvard. The
University of Pennsylvania went from fifth to sixth in the same category.

Swarthmore remained the third-best liberal arts college, while Haverford
maintained 10th place.

Contact staff writer Susan Snyder at 215-854-4693 or ssnyder@phillynews.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              819 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                             August 1, 2011 Monday

Colorado College tops Princeton Review's 'reefer madness' list; CU-Boulder moves
up to No. 4

BYLINE: Brittany Anas, Camera Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 678 words


Top schools on the "reefer madness" list:


1.  Colorado College in Colorado Springs

 2.  University of California in Santa Cruz

 3.  University of California in Santa Barbara

 4.  University of Colorado in Boulder

 5.  Bard College in New York

 Puff, puff ... pass the "reefer madness" crown to Colorado College in Colorado
Springs.





 The University of Colorado -- where more than 10,000 people gather each April
20 for the annual 4/20 marijuana smoke-out -- moved up two spots from No. 6 last
year to No. 4 this year on the Princeton Review's "reefer madness" list.



 But the Boulder campus was trumped by its southern neighbor Colorado College, a
small private school that's ranked No. 1 in the nation on the list.



 Jackie Beisman, a CU student from Austin, Texas, said it seems like CU's
ranking should be higher.



 "Marijuana is a popular recreational activity here," she said.



 Beisman, a communication major, said when she was shopping for colleges she
considered the school's academic reputation -- but also wanted a school that's
known to do some partying and has nice scenery.



 The Princeton Review released its annual college rankings Monday.



 CU also ranked No. 20 for "great college town" and No. 20 for "most politically
active students."



 Ohio University in Athens was dubbed the top party school by the Princeton
Review this year. CU, which topped the party school list in 2003, was absent
from those rankings this year.



 Rob Franek, vice president and publisher of the Princeton Review, said Colorado
College has been a "usual suspect" on the marijuana list for the past few years,
and this year it surpassed CU. Both schools, he said, have strong academic
records.



 "I have high respect for both schools," Franek said. (No pun intended).



 The Princeton Review surveyed 122,000 students nationwide before compiling its
lists.



 "We go directly to whom we think would be experts, and that's current college
students," Franek said.



 A spokeswoman for Colorado College did not return calls from the Camera. The
college also ranked high for having good classroom discussions and for being a
"Birkenstock-Wearing, Tree-Hugging, Clove-Smoking Vegetarians" kind of school.



 Jonathan Fortune, who will be a senior at Colorado College in the fall, said
the school has a small-scale 4/20 smoke-out that draws about 100 people.



 "I think it's inevitable for Colorado schools to be higher up on the list, with
medical marijuana dispensaries being so prominent," he said.



 Fortune said the ranking is not anything to be proud of, but students do seem
to smoke quite a bit.



 CU spokesman Bronson Hilliard said the rankings are subjective and have no
scientific backing.



 "The media is way more interested in the rankings than we are," Hilliard said.



 In the spring, Playboy ranked CU the No. 1 party school in the nation, saying
it's a "beer drinker's paradise" and citing the massive 4/20 gathering.



 The Princeton Review -- a college test prep company with no relation to
Princeton University -- released the "top 20" in advance of its guidebook "The
Best 376 Colleges: 2012 Edition," which goes on sale today. The lists range from
"happiest students" to "everybody plays intramural sports" to "Got Milk? (beer
usage reported low)."



 Samantha Okumara, a CU senior studying integrative physiology, said CU's
ranking on the "reefer madness" list is probably correct -- but it overshadows
the university's academic credentials.



 "I think it's accurate, but the school deserves a better reputation," she said.




 CU last week released survey results that included participation rates in the
4/20 smoke-out. Of the 3,478 undergraduates who responded, 24 percent reported
that they smoked pot or ate food containing marijuana at the gathering. About 11
percent joined the crowd but didn't consume pot. About half of students -- 48.4
percent -- had nothing to do with the smoke-out, and the remaining students
watched it from a distance.



 Contact Camera Staff Writer Brittany Anas at 303-473-1132 or
anasb@dailycamera.com

A reveler lights up at the 4/20 smoke-out on the University of Colorado campus
April 20.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A reveler lights up at the 4/20 smoke-out on the University of Colorado
campus April 20. Revelers light up during the 4/20 smoke-out on the University
of Colorado campus on April 20, 2011.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved

                              820 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                            August 17, 2010 Tuesday
                               N-j Final Edition

Stetson, ERAU rank high in America's Best Colleges report

BYLINE: DEBORAH CIRCELLI, DEBORAH CIRCELLI - EDUCATION WRITER

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 454  words

DATELINE: DAYTONA BEACH


DAYTONA BEACH -- Stetson University and Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University
continue to have high rankings based on the America's Best Colleges guide
published in U.S. News & World Report.

The 2011 rankings released by U.S. News Media Group show Embry- Riddle
Aeronautical University for the 11th year in a row ranked No. 1 in the nation
for its aerospace engineering program.

The ranking was for the Daytona Beach main campus in the category of
aerospace/aeronautical/astronautical for schools with bachelor or master's
programs. The campus in Arizona ranked third.

The Daytona Beach campus's overall undergraduate engineering programs tied for
11th in the nation, up one spot compared to last year.

Among the South's top regional universities that provide undergraduate and
master's programs, which includes more than 100 schools, Stetson University in
DeLand tied for third place while Embry-Riddle ranked No. 10, up two notches
from last year. Stetson placed third last year, as well.

Bethune-Cookman University, meanwhile, fell out of the top rankings for Best
Black Colleges, even though the report includes how the university scored in
various categories. The university tied for 32nd last year. The report ranked
the top 34 this year. Highlights of the rankings will be published in the
September issue of U.S. News & World Report. Among factors weighed in
determining the rankings, according to the report, are peer assessment,
graduation and retention rates, faculty resources, student selectivity,
financial resources and alumni giving.

I think it's an affirmation of our strength in aerospace engineering and
engineering generally," ERAU President John P. Johnson said in a phone interview
Monday.

Elizabeth Paul, Stetson's provost and vice president for academic affairs, said
in a statement that the ranking celebrates Stetson's "deep commitment to
academic excellence and integrity."

Bethune-Cookman President Trudie Kibbe Reed said in an interview Monday that
rankings are important because anything that "gives us a carrot to do better is
always good."

She said many colleges get upset with the rankings because they "don't tell the
whole story."

She points out that when looking at individual categories, dealing with average
freshman-retention rate, average graduation rate, student/faculty ratio and
percentage of faculty who are full time, the university has similar scores as
other black colleges in the top 20.

She said her staff plans to analyze the data to determine how to do better next
year.

Reed said the university is undergoing seven re-accreditations and, so far,
there have been minimal-to-no recommendations when it comes to improvements
needed. To her, she said, that's hitting it out of the ballpark.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2010 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2010 News-Journal Corporation

                              821 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                             July 14, 2009 Tuesday

MONEY BRIEFS

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. B9

LENGTH: 178 words


COLUMN: MONEY BRIEFS

Survey praises WPI

WORCESTER - Worcester Polytechnic Institute has been named a "Great College to
Work For" in The Chronicle of Higher Education's second-annual survey.

The rankings were based on a survey, featured in the July 10 issue, of nearly
41,000 administrators, faculty members and staff at 247 colleges and
universities, according to a news release. The survey recognizes colleges for
practices and policies in compensation and benefits, institutional policies, and
work environment. The survey provided rankings in 26 categories for four-year
institutions.

CNN salutes area towns

Shrewsbury, Southboro and Hopkinton are among Massachusetts communities included
in a list of 100 "Best Places to Live" in the United States released by
CNNMoney.Com, a service of CNN, Fortune and Money. Also featured are Milton and
Acton.

The article ranks the 100 towns by desirability based on a series of factors
including the local economy, taxes, weather and public services. The leading
community listed is Louisville, Colo.

From local and wire service reports

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Survey praises WPI WORCESTER - Worcester Polytechnic Institute has been
named a "Great College to Work For" in The Chronicle of Higher Education's
second-annual survey. The rankings were based on a survey, featured in the July
10 issue, of nearly 41,000 administrators, faculty members and staff at 247
colleges and universities, according to a news release. The survey recognizes
colleges for practices and policies in compensation and benefits, institutional
policies, and work environment. The survey provided rankings in 26 categories
for four-year institutions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              822 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                            April 6, 2016 Wednesday

12 Coimbatore institutions get national mention

LENGTH: 413  words

DATELINE: COIMBATORE


COIMBATORE, April 6 -- Twelve universities or colleges in Coimbatore have found
a place in the National Institutional Ranking Framework that the Ministry of
Human Resource Development released a few days ago.


 In the 'Universities' category, the Ministry had ranked Bharathiar University,
Amrita University and Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences at 14, 19 and
48 respectively.
 In the 'Engineering' category, the Ministry had ranked PSG College of
Technology at 24, Coimbatore Institute of Technology at 34, Karunya Institute of
Technology and Sciences at 44, Kumaraguru College of Technology at 53 and Sri
Ramakrishna Engineering College at 90 in the list of top 100 institutions.
 Likewise, the Ministry had ranked Sri Krishna College of Engineering and
Technology as the 41st best institution and RVS Technical Campus as the 47th
best institution among the top 100 management colleges. And, in the 'Pharmacy'
category, the Ministry has placed PSG College of Pharmacy at the 11th position.
 For the city that considers itself an education hub, the presence of 12
institutions in four categories is definitely a good augury. It will lead to
competition among institutions as they will want to find a place among the top
100 institutions in their respective category in the country, say academics.
 R. Rudramoorthy, Principal, PSG College of Technology, said that the ranking
was a reward for the college for having invested in research, encouraging
faculty to present papers and reaching out to industry.
 A Bharathiar University source said that the institution could have done better
had it not been for the low score in the 'Teaching Learning and Resources' head.
It was analysing the result to see where it had gone wrong so that it could
improve its ranking to be in the top 10.
 The ranking is fine but it will not lead to over-all improvement in quality of
education, says E. Balagurusamy, former Vice Chancellor, Anna University. The
competition will be only among the top institutions. But the majority of
mediocre and bottom institutions will be least interested and it is those
institutions that the Central and State governments must concentrate on, for it
is from there that majority of the students graduate.
 The two governments should devise methods to improve the quality of education
there, he also says and adds that the ranking will definitely have to be
welcomed.
 'The ranking is fine but it will not lead to over-all improvement in quality of
education'

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved

                              823 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Meridian Star (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 9, 2009 Wednesday

Lions reach new heights: EMCC ranked No. 2 nationally

BYLINE: The Meridian Star, Miss.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 437 words


Sep. 9--East Mississippi Community College's football team keeps setting school
history.

One season after hosting the first state playoff game in school history, the
Lions have now achieved their highest ranking in the National Junior College
Athletic Association poll, climbing to No. 2 in the country behind only Blinn
College of Texas.

"We're very, very fortunate there," EMCC's second-year coach Buddy Stephens
said. "We've got a long way to go before we're that good but we appreciate the
accolades."

After winning the MACJC North division last season, the Lions opened the season
No. 6 and after wins against Copiah-Lincoln (27-13) and Jones County (28-17),
EMCC garnered one first-place vote and 130 points this week to move behind
Blinn's six first-place votes and 139 points.

While the No. 2 ranking is the Lion's highest in the NJCAA poll, the first East
Mississippi Junior College team guided by Hall-of-Fame coach Bob "Bull" Sullivan
earned a No. 2 national ranking in a different poll during the 1950 campaign.
The following decade under Sullivan's direction, the Lions garnered No. 3
national rankings during back-to-back seasons in 1963 and 1964.

Getting the Lions back to that level was Stephens' goal when he came to Scooba
from Pearl River Community College last year and after leading EMCC to its first
playoff berth since 1984 and its first national ranking since 1996, the program
continues to build.

"That's why we came here, to build a program that was not only recognized within
the state, but nationally," Stephens said. "We're definitely not deserving of
the honor but we accept it and the responsibility that comes along with being
the highest ranked team in the state.

"It paints a pretty big bull's eye on our back."

That bull's eye gets painted first Thursday night when Holmes visits
Sullivan-Windham Field.

"You want to ignore it, but you also have to recognize that people are going to
use it in their preparation," Stephens added. "To be ranked that highly, you
have to go out and prepare like the No. 2 team in the country and execute like
the No. 2 team in the country.

"We still just have to continue to prepare like we do every day, but it just
heightens the expectations around us."

To see more of The Meridian Star or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.meridianstar.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Meridian Star, Miss.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090909-ZG-Lions-reach-new-heights-0909

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZG


                                 Copyright 2009

                              824 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                             August 13, 2006 Sunday

Bryn Mawr, Penn State lauded.;
Colleges graded on public service

BYLINE: Patrick Kerkstra, Inquirer Staff Writer

SECTION: PHILADELPHIA; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 861 words


Nobody would argue that Bryn Mawr College and Pennsylvania State University are
both highly regarded schools with strong academic traditions. But better than
Harvard, than Penn, than Swarthmore?

Apparently so, if the oft-asked question "What are the nation's best colleges?"
is tweaked into "What colleges are best for the nation?"

At least that's the conclusion of the editors of Washington Monthly, who this
week released their second annual guide to the nation's higher-education
institutions, ranking them not on academic excellence but on their contributions
to research, public service and social mobility.

By those standards, the editors found, Bryn Mawr College - which tied for 21st
in the most recent U.S. News and World Report ranking - is the nation's best
liberal-arts school. And Penn State, considered by U.S. News to be the 48th-best
major university, is the nation's No. 3 school.

Most traditional rankings rely heavily on factors such as student grades and SAT
scores, a school's resources, and alumni giving: all measures that strongly
favor elite private institutions such as Princeton and Harvard.

But Washington Monthly's conclusions are based on different standards, including
ROTC and Peace Corps participation, graduation rates among lower-income
students, and research spending.

"This guide asks not what colleges can do for you, but what colleges are doing
for the country," the magazine's editors wrote in their September issue.

They acknowledge that their rankings don't have the sway that the U.S. News
lists do, but for certain kinds of students they can be influential.

It's a system that puts public universities on a pedestal and makes the Ivy
League appear almost mediocre. Public institutions rarely crack the U.S. News
top 20.

That has long irritated leaders of such schools, particularly given the
undeniable influence of the U.S. News rankings on many students and parents.

"There is a heavy weighting on measures of wealth," Penn State president Graham
Spanier wrote Friday in an e-mail response to questions. "This accounts in part
for why only one or two of the nation's most distinguished public universities
have ever made it into the top 25."

Like other college presidents, Spanier cautioned against using any single
ranking as "a basis for choosing a university," but he said the Washington
Monthly approach was a "worthy reflection of a different set of criteria that
will have meaning to many prospective students and their families."

Ashley Fleming, a college admissions consultant, agreed, saying students
interested in public service would find the Washington Monthly ranking valuable
because it would provide an assessment of schools that share their values.

Fleming, who works for AdmissionsConsultants Inc. of Vienna, Va., said that
students and parents were relying less on the U.S. News ranking than they had in
the past. "They are getting wise to the PR machine that is the U.S. News ranking
."

Another common complaint about U.S. News-style rankings among higher-education
officials is their perceived vulnerability to manipulation. For instance, a
school could enroll a small but selective freshman class to impress U.S. News,
then enroll many transfer students for the tuition dollars.

"What's gratifying for us about the Washington Monthly ranking is we got it
based on who we really are and not by trying to manipulate the data to get up
the list," said Jennifer Rickard, Bryn Mawr's dean of admissions and financial
aid.

Bryn Mawr performed well on all the Washington Monthly indicators: the high
numbers of lower-income students who enroll and succeed at the school, and the
number of its graduates who go on to earn a doctorate or join the Peace Corps.
The school ranked in the monthly's top five last year.

"Bryn Mawr is more about transforming than polishing," Rickard said. "When you
talk about social mobility, that's what we see here. Students who may never have
even thought about getting a Ph.D. come to Bryn Mawr and end up pursuing one."

Another local school that performed well by Washington Monthly's standards was
Widener University in Chester. The private university is well-regarded locally,
but it doesn't make U.S. News' list of the nation's top 120 schools. Washington
Monthly rated it 52d overall - 12 spots better than New York University - based
in part on its success in graduating larger-than-normal numbers of lower-income
students.

"If we as a university wanted to improve our rankings in some of these reports,
one of the easiest ways to do it is to eliminate the bottom 10 or 20 percent of
your incoming students," said Widener University president James T. Harris III.

The bottom cohort of most classes is composed of lower-income students, who
historically have lower graduation rates than wealthier students.

"If universities are being judged as successful based on the number of students
who graduate, there's no incentive to take risks on lower-income students,"
Harris said.

Widener has tried to resist those pressures, Harris said.

"The Washington Monthly rankings are a reaffirmation of our mission," he said.

Contact staff writer Patrick Kerkstra at 610-313-8111 or
pkerkstra@phillynews.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              825 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Grand Forks Herald (North Dakota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          September 13, 2017 Wednesday

UND among top 25 'most innovative' in U.S. News ranking

BYLINE: Andrew Haffner, Grand Forks Herald

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 576 words


Sept. 13--Area universities fared well in the latest edition of the annual U.S.
News and World Report college rankings.

UND showed improvement for its 2018 rankings among universities overall and
public schools specifically, moving up to No. 102 in the former and No. 192 in
the latter. Those new spots are respectively eight and 10 positions higher than
the university's placement on last year's list.

Aside from the upward mobility in the general rankings, another sign of
improvement might be UND's placement on a list of the top 25 "Most Innovative
Schools," an accolade based on outside-the-box improvements being made on
campus.

"I think it's a recognition as one of the underlying ways of how we think of
ourselves as an institution," said outgoing UND spokesman Peter Johnson.

University President Mark Kennedy points out that UND, which tied with other
schools for the final position on the list, is in good company in the innovation
group.

The No. 1 spot on the list is occupied by the University of Arizona-Tempe and
other ranked schools include Stanford, Harvard and Massachusetts Institute of
Technology. UND is in the No. 25 spot, a placement it shares with Northwestern
University.

The "most innovative" list has been around for the past three years. It's
somewhat unusual in the context of U.S. News rankings in that placement relies
on peer assessment surveys.

The publishers of the list reached out to top college officials, including
college presidents, provosts and admissions deans, and asked them to nominate up
to 10 schools in their ranking category of the best colleges report. Surveys
asked these leaders to base their nominations on schools that are "making the
most innovative improvements in terms of curriculum, faculty, students, campus
life, technology or facilities."

Kennedy said the peer element of the innovation ranking said a lot for the work
being done on the UND campus.

"The only thing that would get us on this list are those things where we drew
national attention, not just state or regional attention," he said. "Or else you
wouldn't have gotten enough national leaders to put you in this group."

As evidence of that, he cited the school's accomplishments in aviation and its
expanding focus on unmanned aerial systems. He also pointed to UND's School of
Entrepreneurship as another effort to innovate on campus.

Overall, Kennedy hoped the ranking--and the improvements it recognized--would
help the school establish itself as a "front-list" candidate for potential
students and employees.

UND wasn't the only school recognized in the 2018 U.S. News rankings.

The publication also named the University of Minnesota-Crookston as the No. 1
Midwestern public regional college. Last year, UMC ranked third in that
category, and a press release from the university stated that it has been among
the top three for the past 21 years of rankings.

For the U.S. News lists, the Midwest region stretches north to the Dakotas,
south to Kansas and Missouri and east to Ohio.

In the 2018 edition, there are seven colleges included in that specific
category, a group that also included multiple North Dakota universities. Valley
City State University tied UMC for first place, and Mayville State University
was ranked No. 4. Dickinson State University was ranked No. 6.

___ (c)2017 the Grand Forks Herald (Grand Forks, N.D.) Visit the Grand Forks
Herald (Grand Forks, N.D.) at www.grandforksherald.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170913-GF-UND-among-top-25-most-innovative-in-U-S-News-ranking
-0913-20170913

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GF


                       Copyright 2017 Grand Forks Herald

                              826 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           October 29, 2015 Thursday

Maine Maritime is ranked top school in country for boosting its graduates'
future pay

BYLINE: Erin Rhoda BDN Staff

LENGTH: 586 words


Back in April, the Brookings Institution published a report outlining how
various colleges contribute to the future economic success of their students.
Researchers attempted to isolate the variables within a school's control that
affect how students do after they graduate, to determine the value added by the
school.


As opposed to traditional college rankings, which tend to reward selective
schools, Brookings devised a way to estimate the direct, long-term contribution
of the college on graduates' future earnings, while controlling for things like
the wealth and academic traits of students.


Now, the think tank has produced a ranking of the schools (1,507 two-year
colleges and 1,666 four-year colleges) that add the most value. Maine Maritime
Academy in Castine joins Harvard University and 13 other four-year colleges in
earning the top score of 100. These schoolsÂ add the most value to median
earnings 10 years after students enroll, out of all the colleges examined.


Researchers found that four factors within a school's control are strongly
correlated with higher earnings for alumni later on: the labor market value of
the school's mix of course offerings and majors; the percentage of students
graduating in science, technology, engineering and math fields; the percentage
of graduates earning their degrees within three years for a two-year college and
six years for a four-year college; and the average monthly compensation of all
teaching staff.


The ranking system "is not a measure of return on investment, but rather a way
to compare colleges on a more equal footing, by adjusting for the relative
advantages or disadvantages faced by diverse students pursuing different levels
of study across different local economies," wrote Brookings. Data came from the
U.S. Department of Education's College Scorecard database, which means it only
looked atÂ undergraduates who received federal aid.


The news means Maine Maritime, especially because of the nature of what it
teaches, is preparing its students for high-paying jobs. Along with
Massachusetts Maritime Academy and SUNY Maritime College, which were also at the
top of the ranking, it teaches engineering skills necessary for shipping
logistics and offshore drilling.


There are, of course, limitations to the data, and the analysis only looked at
future earnings. Different studentsÂ will look for different qualities in their
school: "It may include something about the depth and importance of the material
taught, insights gained, skills mastered, sense of purpose established, and
friendships forged, none of which can be directly measured by earnings," wrote
Brookings.


Still, the rankings give students more information on which to base a decision
about college.


How did other Maine schools contribute to student economic advancement? Here's
the list of all the four-year schools mentioned, with their corresponding scores
on a scale of 100:


Maine Maritime Academy, Castine, 100


Bates College, Lewiston, 77


Bowdoin College, Brunswick, 67


Colby College, Waterville, 54


Husson University, Bangor, 49


Thomas College, Waterville, 45


University of Maine at Fort Kent, 40


University of Maine, Orono, 37


University of Southern Maine, Portland, 20


Unity College, 14


University of Maine at Farmington, 14


St. Joseph's College of Maine, Standish, 11


University of Maine at Presque Isle, 10


University of Maine at Machias, 6


College of the Atlantic, Bar Harbor, 3


Maine College of Art, Portland, 1


Click here to see the rankings for the country and for Maine's two-year
colleges.


Â

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Bangor Daily News

                              827 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           October 29, 2015 Thursday

Maine Maritime is ranked top school in country for boosting its graduates'
future pay

BYLINE: Erin Rhoda BDN Staff

LENGTH: 586 words


Back in April, the Brookings Institution published a report outlining how
various colleges contribute to the future economic success of their students.
Researchers attempted to isolate the variables within a school's control that
affect how students do after they graduate, to determine the value added by the
school.


As opposed to traditional college rankings, which tend to reward selective
schools, Brookings devised a way to estimate the direct, long-term contribution
of the college on graduates' future earnings, while controlling for things like
the wealth and academic traits of students.


Now, the think tank has produced a ranking of the schools (1,507 two-year
colleges and 1,666 four-year colleges) that add the most value. Maine Maritime
Academy in Castine joins Harvard University and 13 other four-year colleges in
earning the top score of 100. These schoolsÂ add the most value to median
earnings 10 years after students enroll, out of all the colleges examined.


Researchers found that four factors within a school's control are strongly
correlated with higher earnings for alumni later on: the labor market value of
the school's mix of course offerings and majors; the percentage of students
graduating in science, technology, engineering and math fields; the percentage
of graduates earning their degrees within three years for a two-year college and
six years for a four-year college; and the average monthly compensation of all
teaching staff.


The ranking system "is not a measure of return on investment, but rather a way
to compare colleges on a more equal footing, by adjusting for the relative
advantages or disadvantages faced by diverse students pursuing different levels
of study across different local economies," wrote Brookings. Data came from the
U.S. Department of Education's College Scorecard database, which means it only
looked atÂ undergraduates who received federal aid.


The news means Maine Maritime, especially because of the nature of what it
teaches, is preparing its students for high-paying jobs. Along with
Massachusetts Maritime Academy and SUNY Maritime College, which were also at the
top of the ranking, it teaches engineering skills necessary for shipping
logistics and offshore drilling.


There are, of course, limitations to the data, and the analysis only looked at
future earnings. Different studentsÂ will look for different qualities in their
school: "It may include something about the depth and importance of the material
taught, insights gained, skills mastered, sense of purpose established, and
friendships forged, none of which can be directly measured by earnings," wrote
Brookings.


Still, the rankings give students more information on which to base a decision
about college.


How did other Maine schools contribute to student economic advancement? Here's
the list of all the four-year schools mentioned, with their corresponding scores
on a scale of 100:


Maine Maritime Academy, Castine, 100


Bates College, Lewiston, 77


Bowdoin College, Brunswick, 67


Colby College, Waterville, 54


Husson University, Bangor, 49


Thomas College, Waterville, 45


University of Maine at Fort Kent, 40


University of Maine, Orono, 37


University of Southern Maine, Portland, 20


Unity College, 14


University of Maine at Farmington, 14


St. Joseph's College of Maine, Standish, 11


University of Maine at Presque Isle, 10


University of Maine at Machias, 6


College of the Atlantic, Bar Harbor, 3


Maine College of Art, Portland, 1


Click here to see the rankings for the country and for Maine's two-year
colleges.


Â

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Bangor Daily News

                              828 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                      IPR

                      May 29, 2013 Wednesday 6:01 PM  EST

RPGMC, TANDA 1ST AMONG STATE GOVERNMENT RUN COLLEGES

LENGTH: 156 words


SHIMLA, Himachal Pradesh, May 29 -- The Department of Information and Public
Relations, Himachal Pradesh issued the following press release:

Shri Kaul Singh Thakur, Health and Family Welfare Minister said here today that
Dr. Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Kangra at Tanda had been ranked
first amongst State Government run Medical Colleges in North India and the
overall ranking of the College amongst all government and private medical
colleges in the country was 28th and amongst government medical colleges its
ranking was 18th according to ranking published by the leading News Weekly
Outlook in its professional colleges hand book May, 2013 issue. He said that Dr.
RP Medical College, Kangra was also the only college situated in rural area
amongst the State run ranked medical colleges. For any query with respect to
this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 HT Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              829 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    Indian Country Today (Oneida, New York)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 23, 2010 Thursday

Leech Lake Tribal College ranked among top community colleges

BYLINE: Indian Country Today, Oneida, N.Y.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 436 words


Sept. 23--CASS LAKE, Minn. - For years the success of Leech Lake Tribal College
has been a relatively well-kept secret. As LLTC's success stories continue to
grow and multiply, more people are beginning to take notice of what is happening
on its campus.

In Washington Monthly's recently released list of college rankings, Leech Lake
Tribal College was rated as the seventh-best community college in America, out
of more than 650 colleges that were part of the study. The rankings are based on
data collected as part of the Community College Survey of Student Engagement in
2007, 2008 and 2009. The data includes five categories: Active and collaborative
student learning; student effort; academic challenge; student-faculty
interaction; and support for learners.

LLTC scored second highest in the nation in active and collaborative learning
and in student-faculty interaction, confirming the value of the college's
holistic, student-centered approach to education.

"Leech Lake Tribal College is honored to be recognized as an outstanding
community college," said LLTC President Dr. Ginny Carney. "Our dedicated
faculty, strong academic standards, and commitment to service all work together
to create a life-changing college experience for our students."

In the Washington Monthly article, columnist Kevin Carey points out that
two-year colleges like LLTC generally receive far less funding per student than
do most four-year colleges, despite the fact that they serve many students who
need more academic and social assistance to succeed. Carey goes on to say that,
"The right leadership, organizational structure, and approach to teaching can
make a big and immediate difference, even when the colleges and students lack
all the resources they need."

The success of Leech Lake Tribal College has also led to growth in enrollment,
as students and graduates spread the word about their experience at the college.
According to LLTC registrar Veronica Veaux, more than 250 students are
registered for fall semester, and that number is expected to surpass 275 by the
time classes start. That number will represent the largest ever student body in
LLTC's 20-year history.

To see more of the Indian Country Today, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
www.indiancountry.com. Copyright (c) 2010, Indian Country Today, Oneida, N.Y.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail services@mctinfoservices.com, or
call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States, call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100923-IC-COMMNTY-COLLEGE-RANKING-20100923

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IC


                      Copyright 2010 Indian Country Today

                              830 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             August 19, 2005 Friday
                                  ALL EDITION

UW-MADISON SLIPS IN NATIONAL RANKINGS;
BUT IT REMAINS AMONG THE TOP UNIVERSITIES IN ENGINEERING AND BUSINESS.

BYLINE: Karen Rivedal

SECTION: LOCAL/WISCONSIN; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 300 words


UW-Madison dropped a few spots in this year's Best Colleges rankings, compiled
by U.S. News and World Report, but remained among the country's top universities
in engineering and business.

Overall, UW-Madison ranked the eighth-best public university -- down from No. 7
last year -- and 34th among all comparable public and private four-year
institutions.

Last year, UW-Madison ranked 32nd on the all-schools list.

The magazine compares 248 four-year universities that grant degrees up to the
doctoral level, including 162 public schools and 86 private ones.

"These rankings do not tell the whole story," Provost Peter Spear said in a
statement Thursday. "Individuals and their families who are contemplating a
college or university selection should look beyond rankings and make sure it's
the right choice for the prospective student."

The magazine also ranked specific schools and programs within institutions. At
UW-Madison, the School of Business ranked 12th among top business schools,
moving up from 14th last year. Its real estate program ranked fourth and its
insurance program fifth.

The College of Engineering moved up one spot to No. 12. Its chemical engineering
program stayed at the No. 4 ranking it received last year.

A university's overall ranking is based on several weighted components,
including peer assessment, student selectivity, faculty resources -- which
includes average salaries -- financial resources, graduation/retention rates and
alumni-giving. Officials said most of UW-Madison's ratings in those categories
showed little change, although the faculty-resources rating dropped from 58 last
year to 63 this year.

UW-Madison also was praised by its peers for good programs involving the
creation of "learning communities" and for its undergraduate research and
creative projects.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Madison Newspapers, Inc.

                              831 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                             August 19, 2005 Friday

Harvard, Princeton top college rankings

SECTION: STATE | NATION | WORLD

LENGTH: 310 words


For the third straight year, Harvard and Princeton share the top spot in the
U.S. News & World Report rankings of America's best colleges.

In fact, the full rankings look much like last year, with not one school in the
top 20 moving more than two spots in either direction. Rounding out the top five
are Yale, the University of Pennsylvania, and Duke and Stanford, who tied. The
top four liberal arts colleges also are unchanged, with Williams again No. 1.

UC Berkeley, tied for No. 20, is the top-ranked public university in the latest
guide to "America's Best Colleges," hitting newsstands Monday.

The formula for the controversial rankings includes variables such as graduation
and retention rates, faculty and financial resources, and the percentage of
alumni donating money to their alma mater.

After years of criticism for tinkering with its formula, the magazine has more
or less settled on an equation over the last decade, and hasn't changed it at
all since dropping admissions yield the number of accepted students who attend a
school as a criterion three years ago. Since college profiles change only
gradually, the result is the rankings have barely budged, at least at the top.

"So much for the theory that every year U.S. News is determined to seek
publicity by blowing up the old formula and putting in something all new," said
Ben Wildavsky, the college guide's editor.

But some critics say the formula should be changed, arguing it fails to account
for many aspects of educational quality. More administrators appear to be
protesting the rankings by declining to participate in the magazine's peer
review, in which they are asked to grade other colleges; that portion of the
formula accounts for 25 percent of a school's ranking. The survey's response
rate has fallen from 67 percent in 2002 to 57 percent this year.

<!-- -->

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 MediaNews Group, Inc.

                              832 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                             August 19, 2005 Friday

Harvard, Princeton top college rankings

SECTION: STATE | NATION | WORLD

LENGTH: 308 words


For the third straight year, Harvard and Princeton share the top spot in the
U.S. News & World Report rankings of America's best colleges.

In fact, the full rankings look much like last year, with not one school in the
top 20 moving more than two spots in either direction. Rounding out the top five
are Yale, the University of Pennsylvania, and Duke and Stanford, who tied. The
top four liberal arts colleges also are unchanged, with Williams again No. 1.

UC Berkeley, tied for No. 20, is the top-ranked public university in the latest
guide to "America's Best Colleges," hitting newsstands Monday.

The formula for the controversial rankings includes variables such as graduation
and retention rates, faculty and financial resources, and the percentage of
alumni donating money to their alma mater.

After years of criticism for tinkering with its formula, the magazine has more
or less settled on an equation over the last decade, and hasn't changed it at
all since dropping admissions yield the number of accepted students who attend a
school as a criterion three years ago. Since college profiles change only
gradually, the result is the rankings have barely budged, at least at the top.

"So much for the theory that every year U.S. News is determined to seek
publicity by blowing up the old formula and putting in something all new," said
Ben Wildavsky, the college guide's editor.

But some critics say the formula should be changed, arguing it fails to account
for many aspects of educational quality. More administrators appear to be
protesting the rankings by declining to participate in the magazine's peer
review, in which they are asked to grade other colleges; that portion of the
formula accounts for 25 percent of a school's ranking. The survey's response
rate has fallen from 67 percent in 2002 to 57 percent this year.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 MediaNews Group, Inc.

                              833 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Herald-Times (Bloomington, Indiana)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           September 12, 2017 Tuesday

IU drops in US News overall rankings; undergrad business program also down

BYLINE: Herald-Times, Bloomington, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 838 words


Sept. 12--Indiana University-Bloomington continued its slide in U.S. News and
World Report's Best College Rankings.

The 2018 list of Best National Universities, released today, put IU in a
four-way tie for the No. 90 spot with Marquette University, the University of
Colorado-Boulder and the University of San Diego. That's down four spots from
the 2017 list and 15 spots from 2016.

IU spokesman Ryan Piurek said in an email that while the U.S. News rankings are
popular, the university isn't worried about dropping a few spots.

"While it would've been nice to go back up, we're not especially concerned,
because we've always felt that no single ranking is going to reflect everything
a university is and does," he said in the email.

In addition to the list of Best National Universities, IU was recognized in
several other categories included in the 2018 Best College Rankings.

IU's Kelley School of Business fell two spots to No. 11 among Best Undergraduate
Business Programs. It shared this spot with the University of Notre Dame's
Mendoza College of Business and the University of Southern California's Marshall
School of Business.

The 2018 Best Undergraduate Teaching list put IU-Bloomington at No. 14 among
national universities and in a three-way tie with the University of
Wisconsin-Madison and Vanderbilt University. This list recognizes schools at
which the faculty has an unusually strong commitment to undergraduate teaching.
IU-Bloomington was not ranked in this category last year.

IU-Bloomington was also included in a few lists of academic programs to look
for, such as first-year experience, study abroad and learning communities.
Schools recognized in these lists were presented in alphabetical order and not
ranked.

IU-Bloomington was not included in this year's list of Best Colleges for
Veterans. It ranked No. 53 last year. However, the rankings list provided this
year stopped at No. 34.

It was a similar situation with this year's list of High School Counselor
Rankings. Last year, IU-Bloomington was No. 67, but this year's list stopped at
49 among national universities. This list is based on responses from counselors
at about 2,200 public high schools in all states and the District of Columbia.

The top five spots in this year's list of U.S. News' 300 Best National
Universities remained largely unchanged from 2017, with Princeton again claiming
the No. 1 spot, followed by Harvard. The University of Chicago and Yale
University were again tied at No. 3. The only difference this year was that the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology shared the No. 5 spot with Columbia
University and Stanford University. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology
was No. 7 last year.

The University of California-Berkeley remained the top public institution, but
this year it shared that spot with the University of California-Los Angeles. The
University of Virginia, the University of Michigan-Ann Arbor and the University
of North Carolina- Chapel Hill rounded out the list of top five public
institutions.

Northwestern University was once again the top-ranked Big Ten institution,
sharing the No. 11 spot with Dartmouth College and Johns Hopkins University.
Other top Big Ten schools included in the overall list were the University of
Michigan-Ann Arbor at No. 28 and the University of Wisconsin-Madison at No. 46.
Pennsylvania State University-University Park and the University of
Illinois-Urbana-Champaign were tied at No. 52.

Founded as a weekly news magazine in 1933, U.S. News is best known for its
college and hospital rankings. For this year's list of college rankings, it
looked at data from more than 1,800 U.S.-based universities.

U.S. News first categorizes institutions as either a national university or a
liberal arts college. IU was included in the national universities list, which
are institutions that offer several doctoral programs and are focused on
research.

An assortment of information is then used to determine the rankings. Among
national universities, 77.5 percent of a school's ranking is determined by a
formula that uses objective measures of academic quality, such as graduation
rates and admissions data. The remaining 22.5 percent is based on academic
reputation, determined by a peer assessment. In a survey, U.S. News asks the
president, provost and dean of admissions at each school to rate the quality of
academic programs at schools in the same ranking category, including their own.

U.S. News says it creates these rankings to provide students and their families
with as much information as possible for making one of the most important and
costly decisions of their lives.

"The data U.S. News gathers on colleges -- and the rankings of the schools that
arise from these data -- serve as an objective guide by which students and their
parents can compare the academic quality of schools," according to the U.S. News
website.

___ (c)2017 the Herald-Times (Bloomington, Ind.) Visit the Herald-Times
(Bloomington, Ind.) at www.heraldtimesonline.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170912-BM-IU-drops-in-US-News-overall-rankings
-undergrad-business-program-also-down-0912-20170912

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                          Copyright 2017 Herald-Times

                              834 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 15, 2015 Thursday

New Mexico: NMSU's College of Agricultural, Consumer and Environmental Sciences
ranked sixth nationally as best value

LENGTH: 441 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Santa Fe: New Mexico State University, The State of New Mexico has issued the
following news release:



 New Mexico State University's College of Agricultural, Consumer and
Environmental Sciences took sixth place in a recent ranking by College Values
Online as one of the nation's best values among agriculture colleges.





 NMSU's Gerald Thomas Hall

 New Mexico State University's College of Agricultural, Consumer and
Environmental Sciences has been rated sixth in the nation as a Best Value
Agriculture College.



 The Best Value Agriculture Colleges ranking measured the top 30 agriculture
schools in the country by comparing each school's average 20-year net return on
investment as calculated and posted by payscale.com. The schools also were rated
on the cost of tuition, percentage of students receiving financial aid and the
number of agricultural programs available at the school.



 &ldquo;This ranking is a direct recognition of the hard work and effort as well
as the amazing dedication of all of the faculty and staff of the College of
Agricultural, Consumer and Environmental Sciences at New Mexico State
University,&rdquo; said Interim Dean Jim Libbin. &ldquo;It is also a major
tribute to the leadership of our former dean, Lowell Catlett, who led the
college during the decade before the announcement. We already knew this ranking
to be true, now the rest of the country and world know what a true gem the NMSU
College of ACES is.&rdquo;



 College Values Online noted that ranking the Best Value Agriculture Colleges is
relevant for students today when one realizes that agriculture is still one of
the largest industries in the United States. It noted that in 2010, $115 billion
in agricultural goods were exported from the United States, according to the
American Farm Bureau Federation.



 &ldquo;The agriculture industry doesn't just grow food. It also engineers food,
evaluates soil, finds ways to minimize environmental impact, develops new
methods for resource and energy conservation, and sells and markets agricultural
products,&rdquo; according to College Values Online. &ldquo;And that's just the
tip of the iceberg. The agricultural industry offers a huge number of career
options, and we want to connect you with the top 30 agricultural degree programs
that constitute the best value for your time and money investment.&rdquo;



 NMSU was rated ahead of numerous other larger universities, such as the
University of California, Davis ( number 20), Penn State (number 22) and
Colorado State University (number 26).



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              835 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 3, 2018 Wednesday

Oklahoma State University Named a 2018 "Best College Value" by Kiplinger's
Personal Finance

LENGTH: 302  words



Oklahoma City: Oklahoma State University - Tulsa has issued the following news
release:
Oklahoma State University has been named to Kiplinger's Personal Finance 300
Best College Values for 2018. Introduced in 1998, the rankings now combine
public schools, private universities and private liberal arts colleges into a
single, comprehensive list. Kiplinger also ranks the 100 best values in each
category. The analysis is based on objective measurements of academic quality
and affordability, not subjective criteria.


The school earned the #81 spot on the magazine's list of 100 best values in
public colleges and #262 in best value among all colleges.
The full rankings are now available online at kiplinger.com /links/colleges and
will appear in print in the February 2018 issue of Kiplinger's Personal Finance,
on newsstands January 9.
"Our rankings, which weigh affordability alongside academic quality, are a great
resource for students and their parents when sorting through college choices,"
said Mark Solheim, editor of Kiplinger's Personal Finance magazine. "We start
with a universe of nearly 1,200 schools and trim the list using measures of
academic quality. We then rank the schools based on cost and financial aid data.
All 300 schools on our list are worth a look."
At Kiplinger.com , visitors have access to the "Find the Best College for You"
tool and other resources that let readers sort by admission rate, average debt
at graduation and other criteria for all schools, plus in-state and out-of-state
cost for public colleges. Also online: slide shows of the top ten schools in
different categories, archives of past years' rankings and an FAQ on the ranking
methodology.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2018 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              836 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                       Qatar News Agency (QNA) (English)

                            October 31, 2016 Monday

HBKU Hosts University Ranking Forum for Higher Education Community in Qatar

LENGTH: 507  words


The event was attended by representatives from the Higher Education Institute at
the Ministry of Education and Higher Education; Qatar Foundation for Education,
Science and Community Development; the Community College of Qatar; the Doha
Institute for Graduate Studies; Georgetown University in Qatar; Northwestern
University in Qatar; the Police College; Texas A&M at Qatar; as well as faculty,
researchers, and leadership from across HBKU&rsquo;s colleges and research
institutes.



Dr. Ahmad M. Hasnah, President of HBKU, said: "HBKU seeks to not only add value
to the academic landscape in Qatar through its innovative programs and research,
but to also play an important role in topics that benefit the wider education
community.

"The University Ranking Forum gave academic leaders from across Qatar the
opportunity to interact with representatives of major global university ranking
organizations to gain valuable insights into the significant criteria by which
universities are included in rankings. This is to ensure that we acknowledge the
significant advances being made in the higher education sector in Qatar and that
these advances are reflected regionally and internationally."
Dr. Mounir Hamdi, Dean of HBKU&rsquo;s College of Science and Engineering,
added: "The forum provided a very useful opportunity to hear about data
collection methodologies and metrics used by the various university ranking
organizations and gave attendees a valuable insight into how specific academic
and research performance indicators impact a university's rankings."
Presentations and discussions led by the providers and publishers of global
higher education content targeted issues faced by universities in the region and
offered those in attendance with background information on reputational rankings
. Phillip J. Purnell, Director of Research and Publishing Services, from Times
Higher Education, shared information on the history of university rankings,
explaining the evolution of indicators and providing context to the methodology
used today, and drs. Coen van der Krogt, Regional Director of Research
Intelligence at Elsevier, offered attendees advice on how to make comparisons in
ranking systems and improve their position.

Ashwin Fernandes, Regional Director of QS, an international information
specialist in the higher education sector, highlighted how ratings can be
utilized as tools to improve transparency and accountability in a global market
of higher education and shed light on the QS World and Arab Region university
rankings. Lastly, Oleg Solonyev, Editor at Round University Ranking, a
Russian-based ranking system, spoke in-detail about data resources used by their
agency to assess universities in their teaching, research, international
diversity, and financial sustainability, as well as their analysis on education
in the Arab region and global trends.



Participants were given the opportunity to network with the representatives and
also take a tour of HBKU&rsquo;s buildings and the Qatar Foundation Visitor
Center. (QNA)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1281


                        Copyright 2016 Qatar News Agency
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              837 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 23, 2017 Thursday

MEN'S BASKETBALL RETAINS HOLD ON TOP SPOT IN NCAA EAST REGION RANKINGS

LENGTH: 488  words

DATELINE: New York



 New York: Le Moyne College has issued the following news release:



 The Le Moyne College men's basketball team is ranked at the top of the NCAA
East Region rankings for the second straight week, as announced by the NCAA
Men's Basketball Regional Advisory Committee.





 The NCAA announces the 10-team regional rankings each of the three Wednesdays
prior to the NCAA Championships selection announcement, which will be made this
year at 10:30 p.m. on Sunday, March 5 on NCAA.com . This is the second ranking
of the season, with the third and final ranking announced on March 1. The
eight-team NCAA Championships East Regional will consist of three automatic
berths and five at-large selections.



 The Dolphins, who entered the week 20-5 overall and won the Northeast-10
Conference Southwest Division regular season title outright last night, have the
best RPI (.605) in the region after posting a .011 jump from last week, as well
as the top performance indicator (16.000) and the second-best strength of
schedule (0.538). Le Moyne's 72-41 win over New Haven last night gave the
Dolphins 21 wins on the season for just the third time in the program's 69-year
history (1987-88 and 1995-96, both teams were also 21-5).



 Le Moyne is followed in the rankings for the second straight week by fellow
NE10 foe The College of Saint Rose, which is 23-6 and has the second-best RPI
(.598) in the region after having the top mark last week. St. Thomas Aquinas
College of the East Coast Conference is ranked third for the second straight
week with a 22-5 record and the fourth-best RPI (.570). Southern New Hampshire
University, which has the third-best RPI (.585) and performance indicator
(15.040), is once again ranked fourth with a 19-6 record.



 Merrimack College, which is 18-9 after going 1-1 last week, is fifth in the
rankings. Saint Anselm College, which also went 1-1 last week to move to 16-8 on
the year, is sixth for the second straight week. The University of Bridgeport
moved from out of the top-10 up to seventh with a 16-9 record after winning its
fifth straight game. Southern Connecticut University, which went 0-2 last week,
dipped to eighth with a 16-11 record. Bloomfield College, which dropped both of
its games last week, slipped a spot to ninth with an 18-9 record. Philadelphia
University rounds out the rankings in 10th place for the second straight week
with a 19-8 record.



 The Dolphins, who are ranked 24th in this week's NABC/Division II National
rankings, opens Northeast-10 Conference Championships play as the top seed in
the Southwest Division on Sunday at Ted Grant Court at 3:00 p.m. The Dolphins
will face either Northeast Division fourth seed Merrimack College or Southwest
Division fifth seed New Haven. The Warriors and Chargers play in North Andover,
Massachusetts on Friday at 7:00 p.m.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              838 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 6, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Emory took quick action

BYLINE: Paul Root Wolpe

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 367 words


As the proud father of a recent Emory graduate and director of its Center for
Ethics, I was dismayed by the disclosure that former leaders of the Emory
undergraduate admissions office deliberately misreported admissions data.

The academic enterprise is based on the integrity of information and maintenance
of the public trust. While the admissions office's actions  were clearly wrong,
the response of Emory's senior leaders, including President Jim Wagner, was
laudable. When a new dean learned of discrepancies in  reporting  admissions
data, quick action was taken.

Instead of trying to minimize or conceal the misbehavior, Emory hired an
independent outside party, investigated,  fully disclosed the findings,
published the details on the university's website, took necessary remedial
action and accepted the consequences in the public arena.

The incident once again brings college rankings into question. While overall
college rankings do capture some important features of the college experience,
they have become far too important, and not just for bragging rights. For
example, international students often use the rankings to choose U.S. colleges.
Like it or not, a school's reputation can be damaged by a fall in the rankings.

Rankings are undoubtedly here to stay. One helpful strategy would be to increase
the number and kinds of rankings available. I would like to see schools ranked
by factors such as best teaching, best internships, best hands-on experiences,
most intensive teacher-student interaction, best research programs in specific
areas, and  the quality of teaching and research in various fields, from history
to politics to business to pre-med.

Overall rankings are, in the end, not worth that much; they lump together too
many different features and qualities. Multiple rankings would be more helpful
to students and, ultimately, to schools as well. But one "qualitative" measure
that rankings will never capture is whether our institutions are run by people
of integrity -- people who can be depended on to do the right thing and to tell
the truth, even when it hurts.

That's the way  to restore the public trust.

Paul Root Wolpe is director of Emory University's Center for Ethics.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              839 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 6, 2012 Thursday
                                 First EDITION

Emory took quick action;
ANOTHER VIEW

BYLINE: Paul Root Wolpe

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 367 words


As the proud father of a recent Emory graduate and director of its Center for
Ethics, I was dismayed by the disclosure that former leaders of the Emory
undergraduate admissions office deliberately misreported admissions data.

The academic enterprise is based on the integrity of information and maintenance
of the public trust. While the admissions office's actions  were clearly wrong,
the response of Emory's senior leaders, including President Jim Wagner, was
laudable. When a new dean learned of discrepancies in  reporting  admissions
data, quick action was taken.

Instead of trying to minimize or conceal the misbehavior, Emory hired an
independent outside party, investigated,  fully disclosed the findings,
published the details on the university's website, took necessary remedial
action and accepted the consequences in the public arena.

The incident once again brings college rankings into question. While overall
college rankings do capture some important features of the college experience,
they have become far too important, and not just for bragging rights. For
example, international students often use the rankings to choose U.S. colleges.
Like it or not, a school's reputation can be damaged by a fall in the rankings.

Rankings are undoubtedly here to stay. One helpful strategy would be to increase
the number and kinds of rankings available. I would like to see schools ranked
by factors such as best teaching, best internships, best hands-on experiences,
most intensive teacher-student interaction, best research programs in specific
areas, and  the quality of teaching and research in various fields, from history
to politics to business to pre-med.

Overall rankings are, in the end, not worth that much; they lump together too
many different features and qualities. Multiple rankings would be more helpful
to students and, ultimately, to schools as well. But one "qualitative" measure
that rankings will never capture is whether our institutions are run by people
of integrity -- people who can be depended on to do the right thing and to tell
the truth, even when it hurts.

That's the way  to restore the public trust.

Paul Root Wolpe is director of Emory University's Center for Ethics.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              840 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 15, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY Top 25 Coaches' Poll;
College football

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 12C

LENGTH: 713 words


Poll taken before Sunday's game; times p.m. Eastern

1. Ohio State (7-0)

Points: 1,495 (56 first-place votes). Previous ranking: 3. This week: Saturday
vs. Michigan State (ABC, 3:30). Last week: Beat Kent State 48-3.

2. Boston College (7-0)

Points: 1,383 (1). Previous ranking: 4. Next game: Oct. 25 at No. 11 Virginia
Tech (ESPN, 7:30). Last week: Beat Notre Dame 27-14.

3. South Florida (6-0)

Points: 1,320 (3). Previous ranking: 5 (tie). This week: Thursday at Rutgers
(ESPN, 7:30). Last week: Beat Central Florida 64-12.

4. Oklahoma (6-1)

Points: 1,288. Previous ranking: 5 (tie). This week: Saturday at Iowa State
(FSN, 12:30). Next week: Beat then-No. 11 Missouri 41-31.

5. LSU (6-1)

Points: 1,173. Previous ranking: 1. This week: Saturday vs. No. 19 Auburn (ESPN,
9). Last week: Lost to then-No. 18 Kentucky 43-37 3OT.

6. Oregon (5-1)

Points: 1,077. Previous ranking: 8. This week: Saturday at Washington. Last
week: Beat Washington State 53-7.

7. West Virginia (5-1)

Points: 1,007. Previous ranking: 9. This week: Saturday vs. Mississippi State.
Last week: Idle.

8. South Carolina (6-1)

Points: 997. Previous ranking: 12. This week: Saturday vs. Vanderbilt. Last
week: Beat North Carolina 21-15.

9. (tie) California (5-1)

Points: 983. Previous ranking: 2. This week: Saturday at UCLA (ABC, 3:30). Last
week: Lost to Oregon State 31-28.

9. (tie) Southern California (5-1)

Points: 983. Previous ranking: 7. This week: Saturday at Notre Dame (NBC, 3:30).
Last week: Beat Arizona 20-13.

11. Virginia Tech (6-1)

Points: 982. Previous ranking: 10. Next game: Oct. 25 vs. No. 2 Boston College
(ESPN, 7:30). Last week: Beat Duke 43-14.

12. Arizona State (7-0)

Points: 936. Previous ranking: 13. Next game: Oct. 27 vs. No. 9 California (FSN,
10). Last week: Beat Washington 44-20.

13. Kentucky (6-1)

Points: 874. Previous ranking: 18. This week: Saturday vs. No. 14 Florida (CBS,
3:30). Last week: Beat then-No. 1 LSU 43-37 3OT.

14. Florida (4-2)

Points: 726. Previous ranking: 14. This week: Saturday at No. 13 Kentucky (CBS,
3:30). Last week: Idle.

15. Kansas (6-0)

Points: 705. Previous ranking: 20. This week: Saturday at Colorado (ESPN, 5:45).
Last week: Beat Baylor 58-10.

16. Hawaii (7-0)

Points: 558. Previous ranking: 16. Next game: Oct. 27 vs. New Mexico State. Last
week: Beat San Jose State 42-35 OT.

17. Missouri (5-1)

Points: 519. Previous ranking: 11. This week: Saturday vs. No. 21 Texas Tech
(ABC, 3:30). Last week: Lost to then-No. 5 Oklahoma 41-31.

18. Texas (5-2)

Points: 396. Previous ranking: 22. This week: Saturday at Baylor (Versus,
12:30). Last week: Beat Iowa State 56-3.

19. Auburn (5-2)

Points: 372. Previous ranking: 25. This week: Saturday at No. 5 LSU (ESPN, 9).
Last week: Beat Arkansas 9-7.

20. Georgia (5-2)

Points: 282. Previous ranking: 23. Next game: Oct. 27 vs. No. 14 Florida at
Jacksonville. Last week: Beat Vanderbilt 20-17.

21. Texas Tech (6-1)

Points: 232. Previous ranking: not ranked. This week: Saturday at No. 17
Missouri (ABC, 3:30). Last week: Beat Texas A&M 35-7.

22. Tennessee (4-2)

Points: 193. Previous ranking: not ranked. This week: Saturday at Alabama. Last
week: Beat Mississippi State 33-21.

23. Cincinnati (6-1)

Points: 192. Previous ranking: 17. This week: Saturday at Pittsburgh. Last week:
Lost to Louisville 28-24.

24. Virginia (6-1)

Points: 184. Previous ranking: not ranked. This week: Saturday at Maryland
(ESPN2, 8). Last week: Beat Connecticut 17-16.

25. Penn State (5-2)

Points: 128. Previous ranking: not ranked. This week: Saturday at Indiana (ESPN,
noon). Last week: Beat then-No. 15 Wisconsin 38-7.

Dropped out: No. 15 Wisconsin (5-2, lost to then-unranked Penn State 38-7), No.
19 Illinois (5-2, lost to Iowa 10-6), No. 21 Florida State (4-2, lost to Wake
Forest 24-21), No. 24 Purdue (5-2, lost to Michigan 48-20).

Others receiving votes: Michigan (5-2) 127; Wisconsin (5-2) 82; Boise State
(4-1) 61; Illinois (5-2) 59; Kansas State (4-2) 42; Rutgers (4-2) 25; Purdue
(5-2) 19; Florida State (4-2) 16; Maryland (4-2) 15; Alabama (5-2) 13; Wake
Forest (4-2) 12; Clemson (4-2) 9; Louisville (4-3) 9; Brigham Young (4-2) 8;
Michigan State (5-2) 8; Connecticut (5-1) 7; Fresno State (4-2) 2; Wyoming (4-2)
1.

The USA TODAY board of coaches is made up of 60 head coaches at Division I-A
institutions. All are members of the American Football Coaches Association.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              841 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            August 20, 2005 Saturday

UD out of magazine's top 100;
In 'U.S. News,' Antioch moves up, Cedarville stays

BYLINE: By Mark Fisher mfisher@DaytonDailyNews.com

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 333 words


The University of Dayton dropped out of the top 100 - barely - in a ranking of
national universities compiled by U.S. News & World Report, while Antioch
College moved up and Cedarville University retained recognition in
smaller-school categories.

The magazine's 2006 guide of "best" colleges ranked UD tied for 104th among
national universities, down from a tie for 98th in last year's 2005 guide. UD
spokeswoman Linda Robertson said while school officials were disappointed with
missing the top 100, UD's score was the same as last year's, and the university
remained seventh-ranked among Catholic universities.

UD welcomed its largest incoming class since 1969 this week, about 2,000
students, and those students likely chose UD more for its academic programs and
sense of community than its magazine ranking, Robertson said.

The controversial rankings are based on a complex formula that includes
graduation and dropout rates, admissions selectivity, faculty resources and the
percentage of alumni donating to their alma mater. Critics of the rankings say
they can mislead prospective students and can be manipulated.

U.S. News places colleges in categories based on their size and programs.

Cedarville University (13th) and Wilmington College (41st) were ranked in the
top tier of Midwestern comprehensive colleges, while Antioch College moved up
from the fourth to the third tier among liberal arts colleges. Central State and
Wilberforce universities were ranked in the fourth tier of Midwest comprehensive
colleges, while Wright State University placed in the fourth tier of national
universities, where it was joined by other Ohio public universities such as Kent
State, Akron and Cleveland State.

Miami University was ranked 66th among national universities, down slightly from
a tie for 62nd last year, while Ohio State University ranked 60th, up from a tie
for 62nd. The University of Cincinnati was ranked in the third tier for national
universities.

For more information, link to www.usnews.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2005 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

                              842 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Herald-Times (Bloomington, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 3, 2010 Tuesday

IU comes in at No. 15 on list of top party schools

BYLINE: Mike Leonard, Herald-Times, Bloomington, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 416 words


Aug. 03--We're No. 15!

Like it or not, Indiana University once again has made the list of top party
schools in the country, coming in at No. 15 on the annual list compiled by the
Princeton Review.

It's not a distinction embraced by the university. "The whole party-school
ranking thing is just a gimmick to gain publicity for the Princeton Review
rankings," said IU spokesman Larry MacIntyre. "The rankings have no meaning
whatsoever."

IU also comes in at No. 6 for "lots of hard liquor," No. 15 for "best college
newspaper," No. 17 for "lots of beer" and No. 20 for "students pack the
stadium."

The stadium ranking does seem suspect, considering that IU's football attendance
ranks next-to-last in the Big Ten and that basketball attendance has been down
over the past couple of years (although still in the nation's top 20).

Robert Franek, author of "The Best 373 Colleges: 2011 Edition," said the
rankings are based on surveys of 122,000 current U.S. university students. "Lots
of schools like to trumpet the rankings if they are beneficial to the school,"
he said. "But they do push back when they wind up on lists they don't care for,
like the party school rankings. All I can say is that these are evaluations that
come from the students themselves."

Jeanne Krier, a publicist with Random House, which publishes "The Best 373
Colleges," said, "Come on! We're talking about the 373 best colleges in the
country."

And then she elaborated that she earned both bachelor's and master's degrees
from IU in theater in the 1960s. "I had a wonderful time at Indiana University
and I'm not bothered by things like party school rankings. It's a fun place and
a wonderful academic institution as well."

The University of Georgia took the dubious distinction of Best Party School in
the 2011 rankings, followed by Ohio University, Penn State, West Virginia
University and the University of Texas at Austin. Also notable were Iowa at No.
nine; DePauw at 10; Wisconsin at 12; Illinois at 18; and Michigan State at 20.

IU was the No. 1 party school in 2002.

To see more of the Herald-Times or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.heraldtimesonline.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, Herald-Times,
Bloomington, Ind. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
more information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune
Information Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail
services@mctinfoservices.com, or call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States,
call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100803-BM-IU-comes-in-at-No-15-on-list-of-top-party-schools-20100803

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                          Copyright 2010 Herald-Times

                              843 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 13, 2016 Tuesday

CUNY Graduates Lead Nation in 2016 Social Mobility Index

LENGTH: 758  words

DATELINE: New York



 New York: City University of New York (CUNY) System has issued the following
news release:



  The City University of New York leads the nation's four-year colleges in
helping students grab the American dream of moving up the social ladder and
landing good-paying, high-quality jobs, according to the 2016 Social Mobility
Index.





 december_445b_cuny_degree



 Three CUNY colleges are among the top 10 in the country in enrolling low-income
students and graduating them into solid careers. Six more CUNY baccalaureate
colleges are in the top 10 percent of the 918 U.S. colleges included in the
study.



 The Social Mobility Index "differs from most other rankings in that it focuses
directly and broadly on the problem of economic mobility," its website explains.
"To what extent does a college or university educate more economically
disadvantaged people (family incomes below the national median) at lower tuition
so that they graduate into good paying jobs? The colleges that do the best at
this rank higher.... Gone is any quixotic pretense of 'best' college based on
arbitrary or irrelevant popularity criteria such as percentage of applicants
denied."



 The index was created by CollegeNET, a company that provides Web-based services
to some 1,300 higher education and nonprofit institutions around the world. The
index did not consider CUNY in its first rankings in 2014, but in 2015 placed
six of them from first to 31st among 931 colleges.



 Chancellor James B. Milliken said: "The Social Mobility Index underlines the
historical role that CUNY's affordable, high-quality education has long played
in moving New York City students into the middle class. It is very much in line
with other external rankings that have highlighted both our academics and the
minimal debt that CUNY students incur. Eight in 10 CUNY students graduate
without any federal education loans, and many who do incurred their debt at
other colleges before transferring into CUNY."



 For the second year in a row, Baruch College led the national Social Mobility
Index, with City College in 9th place and Queens College in 10th place. Rounding
out CUNY's roster of colleges that deliver the greatest boost up the social
ladder are the College of Staten Island (16), Hunter College (19), Brooklyn
College (24), Lehman College (65) and John Jay College of Criminal Justice (86).




 It's important to note that all CUNY baccalaureate colleges charge the same low
tuition. However, other variables factor in the rankings, including median
early-career salary - and that often reflects the career choices that
undergraduates make in choosing particular colleges that specialize in
particular majors. For example, graduates of business-oriented Baruch may be
more likely to earn higher salaries than those of public-service-oriented John
Jay.



 Besides salary, the index factors in tuition (the higher the tuition, the lower
the ranking), endowment (larger endowments lower scores because they imply an
untapped capacity to do more for students), the economic background of students
and their graduation rate.



 Because "tuition and economic background are the most critical front end
determinants for access," the Social Mobility Index explains, they get the
greatest weight in calculating the rankings. "They are also the two variables
over which policy makers have almost 100 percent, decisive control.... Simply
put, a school can most dramatically move itself upwards in the SMI rankings by
lowering its tuition or increasing its percentage of economically disadvantaged
students (or both)."



 The City University of New York is the nation's leading urban public
university. Founded in New York City in 1847, the University comprises 24
institutions: 11 senior colleges, seven community colleges, the William E.
Macaulay Honors College at CUNY, the CUNY School of Medicine, the CUNY Graduate
School and University Center, the CUNY Graduate School of Journalism, the CUNY
School of Law, the CUNY School of Professional Studies and the CUNY School of
Public Health and Health Policy. The University serves more than 274,350
degree-seeking students and 260,000 adult and continuing education students.
College Now, the University's academic enrichment program, is offered at CUNY
campuses and more than 300 high schools throughout the five boroughs of New York
City. The University offers online baccalaureate and master's degrees through
the School of Professional Studies.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              844 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 2, 2018 Tuesday

Oklahoma State University Named a 2018 "Best College Value" by Kiplinger's
Personal Finance

LENGTH: 422  words



Oklahoma City: Oklahoma State University  has issued the following news release:


Oklahoma State University has been named to Kiplinger's Personal Finance 300
Best College Values for 2018. Introduced in 1998, the rankings now combine
public schools, private universities and private liberal arts colleges into a
single, comprehensive list. Kiplinger also ranks the 100 best values in each
category. The analysis is based on objective measurements of academic quality
and affordability, not subjective criteria.


The school earned the #81 spot on the magazine's list of 100 best values in
public colleges and #262 in best value among all colleges.
The full rankings are now available online at kiplinger.com /links/colleges and
will appear in print in the February 2018 issue of Kiplinger's Personal Finance,
on newsstands January 9.
"Our rankings, which weigh affordability alongside academic quality, are a great
resource for students and their parents when sorting through college choices,"
said Mark Solheim, editor of Kiplinger's Personal Finance magazine. "We start
with a universe of nearly 1,200 schools and trim the list using measures of
academic quality. We then rank the schools based on cost and financial aid data.
All 300 schools on our list are worth a look."
At Kiplinger.com , visitors have access to the "Find the Best College for You"
tool and other resources that let readers sort by admission rate, average debt
at graduation and other criteria for all schools, plus in-state and out-of-state
cost for public colleges. Also online: slide shows of the top ten schools in
different categories, archives of past years' rankings and an FAQ on the ranking
methodology.
About Kiplinger
For nine decades, the Kiplinger organization has led the way in personal finance
and business forecasting. Founded in 1920 by W.M. Kiplinger, the company
developed one of the nation's first successful newsletters in modern times. The
Kiplinger Letter, launched in 1923, remains the longest continuously published
newsletter in the United States. In 1947, Kiplinger created the nation's first
personal finance magazine. Located in the heart of our nation's capital, the
Kiplinger editors remain dedicated to delivering sound, unbiased advice for your
family and your business in clear, concise language. Become a fan of Kiplinger
on Facebook or Kiplinger.com  and follow Kiplinger on Twitter, LinkedIn and
Tumblr.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2018 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              845 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                      Khaleej Times (United Arab Emirates)

                              June 7, 2016 Tuesday

British school in Al Ain bags highest ranking

BYLINE: Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 358 words


The 'Outstanding' ranking is awarded based on eight performance standards set by
the Adec.

Brighton College Al Ain has been awarded the highest school ranking in the UAE
following an inspection by the Abu Dhabi Education Council (Adec). The first in
Al Ain to receive the 'Outstanding' ranking, Brighton College Al Ain now joins
the only two other schools in the UAE to have achieved the top rating from the
Adec: Al Bateen/Al Mushrif Private School and Al Muna Primary School.

Brighton College Al Ain, a British-curriculum school offering education to
students from Kindergarten to A-Levels, opened in September 2014. It offers
"world-class education" to its students, according to Henning Fries, CEO of
Bloom Education. Bloom Education is a partner of Brighton College, and was
instrumental in bringing the school to Abu Dhabi and Al Ain.

"At Bloom Education, we are positive that Brighton College will continue to make
significant strides in the UAE education system through expanding our network of
world-class schools across the UAE, especially in Abu Dhabi and Dubai," said
Fries.

The standards are: Students' attainment and progress; students' personal
development; quality of teaching and learning; meeting of students' needs
through the curriculum; protection, care, guidance and support of students;
quality of the school's buildings and premises; school's resources to support
its aims; and effectiveness of leadership and management.

After the "perfect score" ranking was announced by the Adec, Brighton College Al
Ain's admissions staff has noticed a significant increase in applications for
the upcoming academic year.

Jonathan McArthur, headmaster of Brighton College Al Ain, said: "We are
delighted with the outcome. This was an intense and robust review process and we
are pleased (with the result)."

Brighton College Al Ain, along with Brighton College Abu Dhabi, is the sister
school of the award-winning Brighton College UK. Bloom Education is "committed
to maintaining this success to ensure a superlative quality of education for
years to come", said Fries.

reporters@khaleejtimes.com

http://imgs.syndigate.info/28/44/5/146529103394.jpg



LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


   Copyright 2016 Khaleej Times - Galadari Printing and Publishing Co. L.L.C.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              846 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             April 5, 2016 Tuesday
                                 Jaipur Edition

South Indian institutes dominate govt's ranking

BYLINE: http://www.timesofindia.com

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 406 words


Higher educational institutes from south India have topped streams across
engineering, management, pharmacy and universities, the first such ranking by
the ministry of human resource development has revealed. Four universities \xAD
Jawaharlal Nehru University , University of Hyderabad, Visva Bharati and Aligarh
Muslim University -have all made it to the list of top 25 universities. JNU is
at three, UH at four, AMU at 10 and Visva Bharati at 11.

National Institutional Ranking Framework designed by a 16-member core team and
involving various agencies like National Board of Accreditation (NBA), All India
Council for Technical Education (AICTE), University Grants Commission (UGC) and
others was done after data from 1,438 engineering colleges, 609 management

institutions, 454 pharmacy colleges and 233 universities was unveiled by HRD
minister Smriti Irani on Monday .IIT, Madras tops the list of engineering
colleges, IIM, Bangalore is the best among management institutes, Manipal
College of Pharmaceutical Sciences is the number one pharmacy institute and
Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore is the top ranked university . In
engineering category , top 11slots have been taken by IITs Only two fully
private engineering colleges \xAD BIT Ranchi (rank 17) and Vellore Institute of
Technology (rank 13) are in the list of 25. Government-run or funded engineering
colleges rule the ranking.

In the management category , IIMs dominate the rankings from one to six.IIM,
Ahmedabad is at second rank. Again, as in the case of IITs, new IIMs like

the one in Udaipur have made it to a higher rank than the IIMs which are a

little older and more than reputed private institutions. Private institutions
have a more robust presence in the management category . Thiagrajar School of
Management, Madurai (rank 15), SP Jain Institute of Management & Research,
Mumbai (rank 16), Vellore Institute of Technology (rank 17), Fore School of
Management (rank 23) and Lal Bahadur Shastri Institute of Man

agement, Delhi (rank 24) and Birla Institute of Technology (rank 25) appear in
the list.Among universities, Institute of Chemical Technology established in
1933 by the University of Mumbai and made a deemed university in 2008 is second
followed by JNU, HU and Tezpur University . DU is at number six, BHU at
seven.Private varsities like BITS Pilani (rank 9), Bharatihar University (rank
14), and Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Coimbatore is ranked 19.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              847 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday

MSMU Ranks in Top 25 in the Region: U.S. News and World Report Best Colleges

LENGTH: 398  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Frederick: Mount St. Mary's University issued the following news release:



  For the 6th year in a row, Mount St. Mary's University is ranked among the
North region's top 25 top colleges and universities by U.S. News & World Report.
MSMU placed 22nd among 130 institutions in the region and second among
Maryland's eight other public and private regional universities.





 &ldquo;We are honored to be recognized by U.S. News & World Report as one of
the nation's best colleges,&rdquo; said Michael Post, MSMU's vice president for
enrollment management. &ldquo;Rankings like these are the direct result of a
tremendous amount of hard work and dedication from the Mount community, and our
unrelenting commitment to providing the very best academic experience.&rdquo;



 The U.S. News rankings focus on academic excellence, with schools ranked based
on 16 measures of academic quality. The rankings emphasize outcomes, with
graduation and retention rates carrying the most weight in the methodology at 30
percent. MSMU placed second in alumni giving with 22 percent annual
participation.



 "It is our hope students and parents use these ranking as only one of many data
points to consider when researching colleges," said Post. &ldquo;Parents and
students should view rankings like these as just one of many tools when choosing
the right college. The best way to evaluate whether a college is the right fit
is by visiting campus, learning more about the academic and student life
options, and meeting the community."



 Mount St. Mary's University is also nationally ranked as one of the top
Catholic colleges in the nation in the latest edition of The Newman Guide to
Choosing a Catholic College. It is among 28 recommended institutions including
22 four-year colleges and universities in the United States, four institutions
providing English-language instruction in other countries (Canada, Italy and
Australia) and two online programs. The Mount has been listed in every edition
of the Guide since its first release in 2007.



 Mount St. Mary's University is the nation's second-oldest Catholic university
-- with 16 Division I athletic teams, an award-winning student life program and
more than 40 majors and minors to choose from.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              848 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday

MSMU Ranks in Top 25 in the Region: U.S. News and World Report Best Colleges

LENGTH: 398  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Frederick: Mount St. Mary's University issued the following news release:



  For the 6th year in a row, Mount St. Mary's University is ranked among the
North region's top 25 top colleges and universities by U.S. News & World Report.
MSMU placed 22nd among 130 institutions in the region and second among
Maryland's eight other public and private regional universities.





 &ldquo;We are honored to be recognized by U.S. News & World Report as one of
the nation's best colleges,&rdquo; said Michael Post, MSMU's vice president for
enrollment management. &ldquo;Rankings like these are the direct result of a
tremendous amount of hard work and dedication from the Mount community, and our
unrelenting commitment to providing the very best academic experience.&rdquo;



 The U.S. News rankings focus on academic excellence, with schools ranked based
on 16 measures of academic quality. The rankings emphasize outcomes, with
graduation and retention rates carrying the most weight in the methodology at 30
percent. MSMU placed second in alumni giving with 22 percent annual
participation.



 "It is our hope students and parents use these ranking as only one of many data
points to consider when researching colleges," said Post. &ldquo;Parents and
students should view rankings like these as just one of many tools when choosing
the right college. The best way to evaluate whether a college is the right fit
is by visiting campus, learning more about the academic and student life
options, and meeting the community."



 Mount St. Mary's University is also nationally ranked as one of the top
Catholic colleges in the nation in the latest edition of The Newman Guide to
Choosing a Catholic College. It is among 28 recommended institutions including
22 four-year colleges and universities in the United States, four institutions
providing English-language instruction in other countries (Canada, Italy and
Australia) and two online programs. The Mount has been listed in every edition
of the Guide since its first release in 2007.



 Mount St. Mary's University is the nation's second-oldest Catholic university
-- with 16 Division I athletic teams, an award-winning student life program and
more than 40 majors and minors to choose from.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              849 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 3, 2015 Saturday

MSMU Ranks in Top 25 in the Region: U.S. News and World Report Best Colleges

LENGTH: 390 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Frederick: Mount St. Mary's University issued the following news release:



  For the 6th year in a row, Mount St. Mary's University is ranked among the
North region's top 25 top colleges and universities by U.S. News & World Report.
MSMU placed 22nd among 130 institutions in the region and second among
Maryland's eight other public and private regional universities.





 &ldquo;We are honored to be recognized by U.S. News & World Report as one of
the nation's best colleges,&rdquo; said Michael Post, MSMU's vice president for
enrollment management. &ldquo;Rankings like these are the direct result of a
tremendous amount of hard work and dedication from the Mount community, and our
unrelenting commitment to providing the very best academic experience.&rdquo;



 The U.S. News rankings focus on academic excellence, with schools ranked based
on 16 measures of academic quality. The rankings emphasize outcomes, with
graduation and retention rates carrying the most weight in the methodology at 30
percent. MSMU placed second in alumni giving with 22 percent annual
participation.



 "It is our hope students and parents use these ranking as only one of many data
points to consider when researching colleges," said Post. &ldquo;Parents and
students should view rankings like these as just one of many tools when choosing
the right college. The best way to evaluate whether a college is the right fit
is by visiting campus, learning more about the academic and student life
options, and meeting the community."



 Mount St. Mary's University is also nationally ranked as one of the top
Catholic colleges in the nation in the latest edition of The Newman Guide to
Choosing a Catholic College. It is among 28 recommended institutions including
22 four-year colleges and universities in the United States, four institutions
providing English-language instruction in other countries (Canada, Italy and
Australia) and two online programs. The Mount has been listed in every edition
of the Guide since its first release in 2007.



 Mount St. Mary's University is the nation's second-oldest Catholic university
-- with 16 Division I athletic teams, an award-winning student life program and
more than 40 majors and minors to choose from.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              850 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            March 10, 2010 Wednesday

Pakistan: LHC cancels FJMC affiliation with UHS

LENGTH: 528  words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, March 10 -- A special division bench of the Lahore High Court on Monday
suspended the Punjab government's November 26 order which had cancelled the
Fatima Jinnah Medical Colleges affiliation with the Punjab University and linked
it with the University of Health Science, adjourning the hearing until March
11.According to our correspondent, the bench, comprising of Chief Justice
Khawaja Muhammad Sharif and Justice Ijaz-ul-Ahsan, passed the order after UHS's
counsel pointed out that FJMC's students were waiting to appear in the
forthcoming supplementary exams. Neither the UHS nor the Punjab University was
ready to conduct the exams because the latter had no legal authority to hold the
exams after November 26 notification while the former was avoiding to conduct
the exams because of the pending litigation on the affiliation issue.

At this, the court suspended the affiliation notification, allowing the PU to
hold supplementary exams of FJMC's students.The CJ had taken suo motu notice of
the college's affiliation with the UHS after the students had lunched protest
against the government move.Shahzad Shaukat, the counsel for the Punjab
University, had informed the court that, in international ranking of
universities, the PU stood at number 767 while the UHS was at 5,939the position.
In national ranking, PU was on second number while the UHS had not been granted
any ranking so far, he added.The counsel said the ranking list was prepared in
light of criteria set by Higher Education Commission on the basis of
research-based studies, strength of students, qualification of faculty members
and finances.The PU's counsel said the ranking of the local institution played a
vital role in the admission of Pakistani students to foreign institutions. On
the other side, the UHS counsel said at least 28,500 students of different
affiliated medical colleges were enrolled in the university.

He said the UHS was established with a vision of standardized and specialized
education in medical field. The university also offered postgraduate courses to
prepare students for higher education besides holding training programs for the
faculty of its affiliated colleges on regular basis.He said almost all the major
medical colleges of the country, including Allama Iqbal Medical College and
Quaid-e-Azam Medical College Bahawalpur, had already been affiliated with the
UHS.The counsel pointed out that the section 37 of UHS Ordinance 2002, which
deals with affiliation of medical institutions, required every medical
institution to be affiliated with the university unless there was any legal
cover in favour of an institution.

He also referred a judgment of the Supreme Court that decided an identical case
in favor of the UHS. He pleaded that the role of the UHS was same to the PU as
it was only a degree awarding institution. The UHS counsel said though the
varsity did not have its own building so far, a 50 acre-campus at Kala Shah Kaku
was under construction with the funding of the HEC. Published by HT Syndication
with permission from Right Vision News. For more information on news feed please
contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              851 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 16, 2007 Thursday

U.S. News college ranking puts Carleton near top

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Education

LENGTH: 157 words


Carleton College in Northfield, Minn., tied for fifth-best of the nation's
liberal arts schools in U.S. News & World Report's annual college rankings,
expected to be on newsstands Monday. Williams, Amherst, Swarthmore and Wellesley
were the top four. Carleton tied with Middlebury College.

Princeton came first in the best national universities category for the eighth
year in a row, followed by Harvard, Yale and Stanford, while Cal Tech and the
University of Pennsylvania tied for fifth.

Carleton and Macalester College ranked in the top 15 for the best values for
liberal arts colleges in the nation. A year's tuition at Macalester, which
ranked ninth, is about $31,000. Carleton, 15th, costs about $34,000.

Many students and parents have come to rely on these rankings when deciding
where to apply. But many college officials and other educators complain the
system is flawed. They are pushing for alternatives to the ranking game.

- Megan Boldt

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              852 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 27, 2018 Saturday

JOSIAH GRAY RECOGNIZED BY BASEBALL AMERICA IN INITIAL 2018 MLB DRAFT RANKINGS

LENGTH: 507  words



New York: Le Moyne College has issued the following news release:
Le Moyne College junior right-handed pitcher Josiah Gray (New Rochelle, N.Y./New
Rochelle) has been listed by Baseball America in a pair of rankings leading up
to the Major League Baseball First-Year Player Draft to be held in June.


Baseball America, the leading source for MLB Draft coverage, recently released
its rankings of the College Top 100 MLB Draft Prospects and its Top 200 MLB
Draft Prospects rankings. In the ranking of draft-eligible student-athletes
currently in college, Gray is 58th and is the highest-ranked non-Division I
student-athlete (Justin Montgomery of Cal Baptist is the other at 97). He is the
second-highest ranked prospect from the Northeast, trailing only UConn's Tim
Cate (13th). In the ranking of all draft-eligible student-athletes (college and
high school), Gray is ranked 108th and is sixth among Northeast prospects.
Gray, who was ranked 30th among Baseball America's Cape Cod League Top Prospects
in August after striking out 23 batters over 14 and two-thirds innings with the
Chatham Anglers, was named a National Collegiate Baseball Writers Association
(NCBWA) Honorable Mention All-America selection as a sophomore after being named
to the NCBWA and American Baseball Coaches Association (ABCA)/Rawlings East
Region First Teams in mid-May. He became the first Dolphin to earn All-America
honors since 2008, when Eric Beaulac '09 was named to the ABCA Second Team and
Chris Edmondson '10 was tabbed to the ABCA Third Team. He was the first Dolphin
to earn ABCA all-region honors since Pat Wiese '14 was named to the second team
in 2013 and the first to earn first team honors since Ed Kohout '12, Zach Wiley
'13 and Casey Cannon '13 in 2012, while he was the first NCBWA First Team
selection in Le Moyne's six years in Division II. Gray, who was named to the
Northeast-10 Conference All-Conference First Team in mid-May, registered 10
saves, a 1-0 record, a 0.63 earned run average and 22 strikeouts over 14 and
one-third innings over 13 appearances out of the bullpen. He allowed just one
run over his 13 appearances and tossed 10 scoreless innings over nine
appearances after allowing the run. Additionally, he yielded just seven hits and
two walks among the 53 batters he faced. He led the Northeast-10 Conference in
saves and had the best earned run average among relief pitchers, while he ranked
third in the league in strikeouts per nine innings (13.81). Gray ranks second in
the East Region and 16th nationally with his 10 saves. He recorded multiple
strikeouts in six of his 13 appearances.

 The Dolphins, who return 20 letterwinners, including six starting position
players and two starting pitchers from last year's 28-16 squad that earned the
third seed in the Northeast-10 Conference's Southwest Division, open the 2018
season on Friday, February 16 against East Stroudsburg University in Holly
Springs, N.C.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2018 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              853 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 5, 2007 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

THE PG IS NAIVE ABOUT THESE COLLEGE RANKINGS

BYLINE: WILLIAM S. BARNES Professor and Chair Department of Biology Clarion
University of Pennsylvania Clarion

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 262 words


I believe the views expressed in your May 27 editorial "Costly College: It's No
Surprise People Rely on Consumer Guides" are excessively cynical about the
motives of the college presidents and excessively naive about the failings of
the U.S. News & World Report college rankings.

The alleged rankings, and the conclusions supposedly to be drawn from them, both
rest on any number of flawed assumptions. Among the most egregious are the
following.

1) The opinions of "reputation" solicited from competitors are assumed to be
honest.

2) The data on the high school achievements of freshmen, which are self-reported
by the institutions, are assumed to be accurate.

3) The rankings are assumed to reflect teaching quality.

4) Attendance at the "best" colleges is assumed to enhance career success.

In fact, the preponderance of the evidence, often coming from the elite
institutions themselves, finds that the first two are suspect, and the last two
are false.

There can be no argument against accountability. But accountability for the
wrong things, deceptively measured, serves students and their families worst of
all. Gerhard Casper, then president of Stanford University, said in 2000: "I am
extremely skeptical that the quality of a university -- any more than the
quality of a magazine -- can be measured statistically. However, even if it can,
the producers of the U.S. News rankings remain far from discovering that
method."

Those who will be paying for a costly college education deserve to know that,
and these college presidents deserve at least some credit for saying so.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.

                              854 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            October 17, 2017 Tuesday

DU colleges apply for nat'l ranking

BYLINE: Kritika Sharma

LENGTH: 278  words


In a bid to save face for central government's institutional ranking, National
Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), the government has persuaded top
education institutions to apply this year.



Top Delhi University colleges like Hindu, Hansraj, Ramjas and St. Stephens that
had not applied for NIRF last year, have come on board this year to apply in the
college category.

According to sources, it was after much persuasion from the Ministry of Human
Resource Development (HRD) and the concerned unit - National Board of
Accreditation (NBA) conducting NIRF, that the institutions have applied this
year. The ministry felt the need to persuade these colleges and others that had
not applied as 2017 list of colleges was not impressive which raised a question
mark on the government ranking itself.

"Many good colleges had not applied for NIRF last year, and hence we could not
rank them. This, in turn, ended up giving a list which was not very impressive.
People started questioning as to why colleges like St. Stephens were not in the
top list. We could not go on explaining to everybody the reason for the absence
of these colleges, hence this year we decided to persuade them and bring them on
board for applying," said a senior official in HRD Ministry.

"There was a lot of discussion in the ministry about the kind of colleges that
could be ranked in NIRF because we all know the reality. We were quite sure that
a college like Atma Ram Sanatan Dharam (ARSD) from Delhi University could not
have been at number 5 in the overall list of colleges in the country, but we
could not place any other good college there because not many had applied," the
official added.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2017 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              855 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 13, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY ESPN Top 25 coaches' poll;
College men's basketball

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 813 words


Poll taken before Monday's games.

1. Duke (9-0)

Points: 774 (30 first-place votes). Previous ranking: 1. Upcoming game: Sunday
vs. Valparaiso (FSN, 8p.m. ET). Last week: Beat Pennsylvania 72-59, beat
then-No.2 Texas 97-66.

2. Connecticut (7-0)

Points: 738 (1). Previous ranking: 3. Upcoming game: Sunday vs. New Hampshire.
Last week: Beat Massachusetts 78-60.

3. Villanova (6-0)

Points: 716. Previous ranking: 4. Upcoming game: Tonight vs. Pennsylvania. Last
week: Beat Bucknell 79-60, beat Longwood 90-77.

4. Louisville (5-0)

Points: 654. Previous ranking: 5. Upcoming games: Tonight vs. Chicago State,
Saturday at No.22 Kentucky (CBS, 2). Last week: Beat Richmond 53-45, beat Akron
111-85.

5. Memphis (7-1)

Points: 613. Previous ranking: 7. Upcoming game: Saturday at Mississippi. Last
week: Beat Providence 97-89.

6. Florida (9-0)

Points: 595. Previous ranking: 8. Upcoming game: Sunday vs. Jacksonville. Last
week: Beat Providence 87-77, beat Bethune-Cookman 88-58.

7. Texas (8-1)

Points: 591. Previous ranking: 2. Upcoming games: Saturday vs. Tennessee (ESPN,
2). Last week: Beat Rice 85-58, lost to No.1 Duke 97-66.

8. Illinois (10-0)

Points: 558. Previous ranking: 10. Upcoming game: Sunday vs. Coppin State. Last
week: Beat Arkansas-Little Rock 75-49, beat Georgetown 58-48, beat Oregon 89-59.

9. Oklahoma (5-1)

Points: 529. Previous ranking: 9. Upcoming game: Saturday vs. Southern. Last
week: Beat Coppin State 57-47.

10. Washington (8-0)

Points: 501. Previous ranking: 12. Upcoming game: Friday vs. Eastern Washington.
Last week: Beat New Mexico 81-71.

11. Gonzaga (6-2)

Points: 474. Previous ranking: 11. Upcoming games: Saturday vs. Virginia, Dec.19
vs. Eastern Washington. Last week: Beat Washington State 67-53, beat Oklahoma
State 64-62.

12. Michigan State (7-2)

Points: 383. Previous ranking: 14. Upcoming games: Friday vs. Cleveland State
(ESPNU, 7), Sunday vs. Florida International. Last week: Beat then-No.6 Boston
College 77-70, beat Wichita State 83-64.

13. Boston College (6-2)

Points: 354. Previous ranking: 6. Upcoming game: Sunday vs. Texas Southern (FSN,
3:30). Last week: Lost to then-No.14 Michigan State 77-70, lost to No.17
Maryland 73-71.

14. UCLA (7-1)

Points: 330. Previous ranking: 18. Upcoming game: Saturday at Michigan (ESPN,
noon). Last week: Beat then-No.22 Nevada 67-56.

15. George Washington (7-0)

Points: 306. Previous ranking: 20. Upcoming game: Saturday vs. Maryland-Eastern
Shore. Last week: Beat No.17 Maryland 78-70, beat Florida International 70-45,
beat Morgan State 102-75.

16. Wake Forest (7-1)

Points: 264. Previous ranking: 21. Upcoming games: Tonight vs. DePaul (ESPN, 9),
Saturday vs. Princeton (ESPN2, 4). Last week: Idle.

17. Maryland (7-2)

Points: 259. Previous ranking: 17. Next: Dec.23 vs. American. Last week: Lost to
then-No.20 George Washington 78-70, beat Western Carolina 87-57, beat then-No.6
Boston College 73-71.

18. Indiana (5-2)

Points: 237. Previous ranking: 16. Next: Dec.19 at Charlotte (ESPN2, 9). Last
week: Lost to Indiana State 72-67, beat then-No.15 Kentucky 79-53.

19. North Carolina State (6-1)

Points: 197. Previous ranking: 23. Upcoming games: Wednesday vs. North
Carolina-Asheville, Sunday vs. Miami (Fla.) (FSN, 5:30). Last week: Beat
Appalachian State 92-68.

20. North Carolina (5-1)

Points: 157. Previous ranking: 24. Upcoming game: Saturday vs. Santa Clara. Last
week: Beat Saint Louis 75-63.

21. Nevada (6-1)

Points: 126. Previous ranking: 22. Upcoming game: Tonight vs. Seattle Pacific.
Last week: Beat UC-Davis 78-51, lost to then-No.18 UCLA 67-56.

22. Kentucky (6-3)

Points: 119. Previous ranking: 15. Upcoming game: Saturday vs. No.4 Louisville
(CBS, 2). Last week: Beat Georgia State 73-46, lost to then-No.16 Indiana 79-53.

23. Iowa (7-3)

Points: 85. Previous ranking: 13. Upcoming game: Saturday vs. Arizona State.
Last week: Lost to Northern Iowa 67-63 OT, lost to Iowa State 72-60.

24. Wisconsin (8-1)

Points: 75. Previous ranking: not ranked. Monday's result: Beat North
Carolina-Wilmington 54-51. Upcoming game: Thursday vs. Wisconsin-Milwaukee. Last
week: Beat Wisconsin-Green Bay 82-62, beat Marquette 77-63.

25. Ohio State (5-0)

Points: 62. Previous ranking: not ranked. Monday's result: Beat Norfolk State
92-59. Upcoming games: Wednesday vs. Belmont (ESPNU, 8), Saturday vs. Iowa State
at Des Moines (ESPN2, 8). Last week: Beat Virginia Tech 69-56, beat Saint
Joseph's 81-74.

Dropped out: No.19 Alabama (4-3), No.25 Arizona (4-3).

Others receiving votes: Michigan 58; Syracuse 58; Arizona 47; Pittsburgh 42;
Houston 31; LSU 22; West Virginia 22; Bucknell 19; Ohio 15; Xavier 11; Buffalo
7; Notre Dame 7; Colorado 6; Air Force 5; Alabama 5; Kansas State 5; Clemson 4;
Iona 4; Northern Iowa 3; Vanderbilt 3; North Carolina-Wilmington 2; New Mexico
1; Oklahoma State 1.

The USA TODAY/ESPN Board of Coaches is made up of 31 head coaches at Division I
institutions. All are members of the National Association of Basketball Coaches.


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              856 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                           November 15, 2012 Thursday

U.S. News strips university of ranking for cheating

BYLINE: Eric Schulzke Deseret News

LENGTH: 288 words


U.S. News & World Report, whose college rankings help control the pocketbooks of
parents, has just sanctioned George Washington University for cheating in its
data over the past decade, inflating its students at the top of their high
school classes. GWU notified U.S. News of the discrepancy, and the magazine has
shifted the school to "unranked" status, dropping it from a No. 51 rating.

The key statistic for incoming 2011 freshmen was reported as 78 percent in the
top 10 percent of their high school classes. The corrected number is 58 percent.
"Because of the discrepancy in the rankings, U.S. News has changed George
Washington University from being a ranked school to an "unranked" school in the
Best Colleges section of usnews.com. Unranked means that U.S. News did not
calculate a numerical ranking for this school," the magazine reported. George
Washington is the third such school to be linked to data fixing this year.
Earlier this year, Emory University in Atlanta got caught after inflating ACT
and SAT scores for students over a number of years. And in January, Claremont
McKinna College in Southern California made a similar admission, helping lift
the college from 11th best liberal arts college to 9th in the most recent
rankings. Claremont McKinna apparently fired the official involved. "As an
institution of higher education with a deep and consistent commitment to the
integrity of all our academic activities, and particularly our reporting of
institutional data, we take this situation very seriously," President Pamela B.
Gann wrote in a memo distributed on campus, the Los Angeles Times reported. Eric
Schulzke writes on national politics for the Deseret News. He can be contacted
at eschulzke@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

                              857 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             June 21, 2007 Thursday
                                2 Tampa Edition

ECKERD SAYS NO TO RANK SYSTEM

BYLINE: SHANNON COLAVECCHIO-VAN SICKLER, Times Staff Writer

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 563 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG



HIGHLIGHT: The college's leader says U.S. News' methods are flawed, so the
school won't participate.


Eckerd College said Wednesday it will stop participating in U.S. News & World
Report's annual college rankings, the go-to guide for many campus-bound students
and their families.

Eckerd president Donald R. Eastman III is among dozens of university leaders
forgoing U.S. News, after complaining for years that the magazine's ranking
methods are flawed.

U.S. News looks at factors like graduation rates and student-faculty ratios, but
gives considerable weight to a college's selectivity and its reputation among
its peers. That, critics say, swings the best rankings to Ivy Leagues and
exclusive, wealthy private colleges.

"This is an exercise based on no scientific validity, just to sell magazines, "
said Eastman, whose college this year fell into U.S. News' unranked third tier.

The Annapolis Group, representing about 120 independent liberal arts colleges,
decided this week to develop its own data system for families researching
colleges. Most of the 70 or so presidents at the meeting, Eastman included, also
said they will no longer participate in the annual U.S. News ranking exercise.

"The idea that one can measure a college experience and educational experience
with a number on a scale from one to 300 or one to 3,000 is one of the most
absurd notions we have," said Christopher Nelson, Annapolis Group chairman and
president of St. John's College in Maryland.

Nelson said the Annapolis Group wants to create a searchable online database
with information on tuition and financial aid, degrees offered, class sizes,
retention rates, campus life, demographics, sports and religion. The goal is to
help people find the college that suits them.

Rollins president Lewis Duncan, one of the dissenters at the Annapolis Group's
meeting, said U.S. News' broad circulation makes it a good starting point for
students and parents.

Rollins was ranked the No. 1 Southern master's-level university both this year
and last.

U.S. News each year asks colleges to fill out lengthy questionnaires covering
things like retention rates, selectivity and faculty resources. But the greatest
weight for a college's rank, 25 percent, is based on a "peer assessment survey"
in which university leaders evaluate each others' institutions.

"I've always thought it was nonsense, and I've never filled it out," said
Eastman, a former administrator at the University of Georgia. "It becomes, 'Oh,
well I've heard Harvard is pretty good.' "

In the spring, 24 liberal arts college presidents signed a letter blasting U.S.
News for misleading data that "degrade" the college search process. Last month,
the group sent letters urging hundreds of their colleagues across the country to
stop filling out the U.S. News peer evaluation survey.

The movement comes as the federal government considers creating its own
searchable database of college data that would allow users to come up with
personal rankings based on priorities.

Brian Kelly, editor of U.S. News, said through a spokeswoman that he welcomes
any effort to get more information out to the public.

He stressed that the private colleges' lack of participation will not hinder the
annual college issue because most of the information used to is available
publicly.

The 2008 edition hits the shelves in mid August.

Staff writer Joseph Schwartz and researcher John Martin contributed to this
report. Shannon Colavecchio-Van Sickler can be reached at (813) 226-3403.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eckerd president Donald R. Eastman III said the rankings have no
scientific validity.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              858 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            July 20, 2011 Wednesday

'University ranking was tried six years ago'

LENGTH: 475 words

DATELINE: CHENNAI


CHENNAI, July 20 -- In a move that could ease the procedure of engineering
counselling and benefit close to one and a half lakh applicants, the Madras High
Court, on Monday, directed Anna University to publish academic rankings of all
affiliated self-financing colleges and make it public within a week. Reacting to
the order, Anna University-Chennai, Vice-Chancellor Mannar Jawahar said the
institution was looking into the matter and would decide on how to implement it.

The order essentially means that the University should now rank all the 501
engineering colleges in the State based so that students will find it easy to
choose the best college during counselling. "Students are expected to take an
immediate decision at the counselling hall as there is no scope to come back at
a later stage. With 500-odd colleges to choose from, students lack any
information on academic performance of these colleges and only get to know their
infrastructure potentials," said Arun C Mohan, the lawyer who filed the writ
petition asking for the details.

"Sometimes a big brand name in the education sector might start a new college
under the same banner or a new college might start with names resembling big
brands. This might confuse the choice of the students."

"The University is bound to disclose the academic ranking of the affiliated
colleges to promote the interest of the students particularly when the number of
engineering colleges in Tamil Nadu is more than 500. The respondents are also
conducting exams and all records relating to academic performance are available
with them. If the same are not disclosed, the students will not know which
colleges are maintaining excellence," read the HC order.

Such an initiative was taken by Anna University about five to six years ago, but
was dropped later due to protests from college managements, said Jawahar.

"The colleges claimed it was an unfair system for newly-opened colleges in rural
areas. Following their protests, the system was put to an end," he told Express.
"Colleges should have a problem only when the ranking is based on facilities or
infrastructure. But this ranking directed is based on academic performance of
students which is already available with Anna University," said Arun. The V-C,
however, assured, "We will have a series of meetings and discussions with
authorities in charge and see what can be done," he said.

"I ran from pillar to post at the last moment asking advice on which college to
choose during counselling," said Ashok, a student who passed out from Maharishi
Vidya Mandir. "Had this system been there, we would have simply chosen the
college with the highest rank." Published by HT Syndication with permission from
New Indian Express. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              859 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           October 29, 2015 Thursday

Maine Maritime is ranked top school in country for preparing students for
high-paying jobs

BYLINE: Erin Rhoda BDN Staff

LENGTH: 590 words


Back in April, the Brookings Institution published a report outlining how
various colleges contribute to the future economic success of their students.
Researchers attempted to isolate the variables within a school's control that
affect how students do after they graduate, to determine the value added by the
school.


As opposed to traditional college rankings, which tend to reward selective
schools, Brookings devised a way to estimate the direct, long-term contribution
of the college on graduates' future earnings, while controlling for things like
theÂ academic traits of students.


Today, the think tank releasedÂ a ranking of the schools (1,507 two-year
colleges and 1,666 four-year colleges) based on how they addÂ value to future
earnings. Maine Maritime Academy in Castine joins Harvard University and 13
other four-year colleges in gettingÂ the top score of 100. These schoolsÂ add
the most value to median earnings 10 years after students enroll, out of all the
colleges examined.


Researchers found that four factors within a school's control are strongly
correlated with higher earnings for alumni later on: the labor market value of
the school's mix of course offerings and majors; the percentage of students
graduating in science, technology, engineering and math fields; the percentage
of graduates earning their degrees within three years for a two-year college and
six years for a four-year college; and the average monthly compensation of all
teaching staff.


The ranking system "is not a measure of return on investment, but rather a way
to compare colleges on a more equal footing, by adjusting for the relative
advantages or disadvantages faced by diverse students pursuing different levels
of study across different local economies," wrote Brookings. Data came from the
U.S. Department of Education's College Scorecard database, which means it only
looked atÂ undergraduates who received federal aid.


The news means Maine Maritime, especially because of the nature of what it
teaches, is preparing its students for high-paying jobs. Along with
Massachusetts Maritime Academy and SUNY Maritime College, which were also at the
top of the ranking, it teaches engineering skills necessary for offshore
drilling and managing shipping logistics.


There are, of course, limitations to the data, and the analysis only looked at
future earnings. Different studentsÂ will look for different qualities in their
school: "It may include something about the depth and importance of the material
taught, insights gained, skills mastered, sense of purpose established, and
friendships forged, none of which can be directly measured by earnings," wrote
Brookings.


Still, the rankings give students more information on which to base a decision
about college.


How did other Maine schools contribute to students' economic advancement? Here's
the list of all the four-year schools mentioned, with their corresponding scores
on a scale of 100:


Maine Maritime Academy, Castine, 100


Bates College, Lewiston, 77


Bowdoin College, Brunswick, 67


Colby College, Waterville, 54


Husson University, Bangor, 49


Thomas College, Waterville, 45


University of Maine at Fort Kent, 40


University of Maine, Orono, 37


University of Southern Maine, Portland, 20


Unity College, 14


University of Maine at Farmington, 14


St. Joseph's College of Maine, Standish, 11


University of Maine at Presque Isle, 10


University of Maine at Machias, 6


College of the Atlantic, Bar Harbor, 3


Maine College of Art, Portland, 1


Click here to see the rankings for the country and for Maine's two-year
colleges.


Â

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Bangor Daily News

                              860 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           October 29, 2015 Thursday

Maine Maritime is ranked top school in country for preparing students for
high-paying jobs

BYLINE: Erin Rhoda BDN Staff

LENGTH: 590 words


Back in April, the Brookings Institution published a report outlining how
various colleges contribute to the future economic success of their students.
Researchers attempted to isolate the variables within a school's control that
affect how students do after they graduate, to determine the value added by the
school.


As opposed to traditional college rankings, which tend to reward selective
schools, Brookings devised a way to estimate the direct, long-term contribution
of the college on graduates' future earnings, while controlling for things like
theÂ academic traits of students.


Today, the think tank releasedÂ a ranking of the schools (1,507 two-year
colleges and 1,666 four-year colleges) based on how they addÂ value to future
earnings. Maine Maritime Academy in Castine joins Harvard University and 13
other four-year colleges in gettingÂ the top score of 100. These schoolsÂ add
the most value to median earnings 10 years after students enroll, out of all the
colleges examined.


Researchers found that four factors within a school's control are strongly
correlated with higher earnings for alumni later on: the labor market value of
the school's mix of course offerings and majors; the percentage of students
graduating in science, technology, engineering and math fields; the percentage
of graduates earning their degrees within three years for a two-year college and
six years for a four-year college; and the average monthly compensation of all
teaching staff.


The ranking system "is not a measure of return on investment, but rather a way
to compare colleges on a more equal footing, by adjusting for the relative
advantages or disadvantages faced by diverse students pursuing different levels
of study across different local economies," wrote Brookings. Data came from the
U.S. Department of Education's College Scorecard database, which means it only
looked atÂ undergraduates who received federal aid.


The news means Maine Maritime, especially because of the nature of what it
teaches, is preparing its students for high-paying jobs. Along with
Massachusetts Maritime Academy and SUNY Maritime College, which were also at the
top of the ranking, it teaches engineering skills necessary for offshore
drilling and managing shipping logistics.


There are, of course, limitations to the data, and the analysis only looked at
future earnings. Different studentsÂ will look for different qualities in their
school: "It may include something about the depth and importance of the material
taught, insights gained, skills mastered, sense of purpose established, and
friendships forged, none of which can be directly measured by earnings," wrote
Brookings.


Still, the rankings give students more information on which to base a decision
about college.


How did other Maine schools contribute to students' economic advancement? Here's
the list of all the four-year schools mentioned, with their corresponding scores
on a scale of 100:


Maine Maritime Academy, Castine, 100


Bates College, Lewiston, 77


Bowdoin College, Brunswick, 67


Colby College, Waterville, 54


Husson University, Bangor, 49


Thomas College, Waterville, 45


University of Maine at Fort Kent, 40


University of Maine, Orono, 37


University of Southern Maine, Portland, 20


Unity College, 14


University of Maine at Farmington, 14


St. Joseph's College of Maine, Standish, 11


University of Maine at Presque Isle, 10


University of Maine at Machias, 6


College of the Atlantic, Bar Harbor, 3


Maine College of Art, Portland, 1


Click here to see the rankings for the country and for Maine's two-year
colleges.


Â

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Bangor Daily News

                              861 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                          September 19, 2012 Wednesday

HEC to evolve varsities ranking system as per international parameters

BYLINE:  Naeem Ullah

SECTION: Vol. XXVII No. 439

LENGTH: 352  words


Higher Education Commission (HEC) and Universities have evolved the consensus to
rank universities in Pakistan as per internationally laid criterion.

It was the collective note amongst more than 50 Representatives of 21
universities and HEC's officials in a workshop held to emphasize the importance
of adoptability of new criterion namely "academic peer perception" and "graduate
employability".

HEC officials in the workshop also said that two newly endorsed parameters has
40-60 per cent scoring share in the university ranking score internationally.
"Thus, the parameters are of high importance and further ranking of universities
will be made in accordance to the new parameters.

Muhammad Ishaq, Deputy Director Regional Office told that this workshop was
oriented to take universities on board on the newly adopted criterion of
universities ranking which were not being practiced in Pakistan. He said the
exercise conducted as HEC was keen to issue universities ranking in accordance
to the new criterion this year.

According to the details representatives of Punjab University, Bahauddin
Zakariya University, Govt. College University Lahore, Sargodha University,
Gujrat University, Beaconhouse National University, Kinnaird College for Women,
Minhaj University, Education University, Lahore College for Women University,
Hajvery University, Govt. College University Faisalabad, University of
Management and Technology, Lahore, Forman Christian college Lahore, University
of Central Punjab, university of South Asia, GIFT University Gujranwala, Lahore
Leads University and other's representatives participated in the workshop.

HEC will finalize the university ranking along with the new and some already
existing parameters like quality and number of research projects, number of
books available at campus, number of computers for students and faculty use,
students-teachers ratio, education quality assurance measures, PhD faculty
members and examination system compatibility.

It pertinent to mention here that the consensus was evolved in the workshop held
on September 10, 2012 in HEC's Regional Office in Lahore.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              862 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                           February 12, 2009 Thursday
                                 Metro Edition

New college ranking puts Carleton at No. 15;
New college ranking wedges in Northfield's Carleton.

BYLINE: Paul Walsh, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 189 words


Just when you thought there was only one recount that Minnesotans have a stake
in:

Earlier this week, a new ranking of the nation's colleges came out and placed
Macalester in St. Paul as tops in the state, coming in at No. 79 out of the
2,000 on the list. Well, now StateUniversity.com has quietly slipped in Carleton
College in Northfield at No. 15.

The website's spokesman, Bill Richards, explained Wednesday that Carleton was
initially left out "due to insufficient data."

"Carleton College has since been in touch with us and has provided up-to-date
statistics that enabled us to rank them -- very highly, in fact," Richards said.

Carleton's addition pushed Macalester down a notch to No. 80. The same can be
said for St. Olaf, another Northfield school, which is now ranked 98th. The
state's largest university, Minnesota, Twin Cities, is now ranked 194th.

Ranked at the top is Stanford. Rounding out the top 10 are MIT, West Point,
Princeton, Cornell, Cal Tech, Amherst, Rice, Williams and Brown.

StateUniversity.com calls its rankings "100 percent objective." To see the
complete list, visit www.stateuniversity.com/rank/score_rank.html.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2009 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              863 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          September 15, 2016 Thursday

Annual college rankings give high marks for diversity to Albright College in
Reading

BYLINE: Matt Nanci, Reading Eagle, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 341 words


Sept. 15--Reading, PA

Albright College received high marks for diversity among liberal arts schools in
the latest U.S. News & World Report's annual college rankings.

"We believe there are many educational benefits that come from a diverse student
body, such as enhanced educational learning outcomes and better preparation for
an increasingly diverse society," Paul M. Cramer, vice president for enrollment
management and dean of admission, said in a statement from the Albright.

In the category of economic diversity, the Reading college was 21st of 214
liberal arts schools.

Economic diversity is measured by U.S. News & World Report as the percentage of
undergraduates that receive federal Pell Grants.

Forty-seven percent of Albright's 1,850 undergraduates get Pell Grants. The top
school in the category was Tougaloo College in Tougaloo, Miss., at 88 percent.

The news outlet, which issued its annual rankings Tuesday, also placed Albright
College 30th of 219 liberal arts school in "campus ethnic diversity."

Campus ethnic diversity was determined by U.S. News & World Report's diversity
index, which factors in the total proportion of minority students and the
overall mix of groups, while excluding international students.

The index's scale ranges from zero to 1, with scores closer to 1 meaning more
diversity.

Albright came in at 0.55 on the index. The top school in the category was
Pacific Union College in Angwin, Calif., with a 0.76.

"Albright has long been committed to access and affordability, which allows the
College to enroll the highest quality students across many diverse categories,
including race, ethnicity and socio-economics," Cramer said.

Contact Matt Nanci: 610-371-5095 or mnanci@readingeagle.com

Matt Nanci -- Reporter

Matt Nanci covers the Wyomissing, Exeter, and Oley Valley School Districts for
the Reading Eagle.

Phone: 610-371-5095

Email: mnanci@readingeagle.com

TODAY'S SPONSOR:

___ (c)2016 the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) Visit the Reading Eagle (Reading,
Pa.) at readingeagle.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160915-RE-Annual-college-rankings
-give-high-marks-for-diversity-to-Albright-College-in-Reading-0915-20160915

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RE


                          Copyright 2016 Reading Eagle

                              864 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             May 22, 2014 Thursday

Daytona State president earns solid marks from board, vows to improve college's
ranking ; Daytona State College president, trustees vow to improve school's
ranking

BYLINE: Annie Martin, Annie Martin annie.martin@news-jrnl.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 602  words


DAYTONA BEACH -- Daytona State College President Carol Eaton earned solid marks
Thursday from the school's Board of Trustees on her annual evaluation, but Eaton
and the trustees emphasized there's still a lot of work to do.

Enlarge

Carol Eaton

The college ranked last out of Florida's 28 public state colleges, Eaton said,
on an unofficial list released by the office of Randy Hanna, chancellor of the
division of Florida colleges. The rankings were based on a variety of student
performance factors like completion rates and the percentage of graduates who
are employed.

Future funding for the colleges could be based on a similar formula. Gov. Rick
Scott is urging lawmakers to use the performance of the colleges -- and their
students -- to help determine how they distribute state dollars. That could
start as early as the 2015- 2016 fiscal year. Enrollment largely drives state
funding now.

"We are definitely not where we want to be -- there's no place to go but up,"
Eaton said Thursday during a Board of Trustees meeting. "But of course, every
college is going to say 'I'm not going to drop,' so that makes our job harder."

Eaton said she first saw the chancellor's rankings, which are based partly on
data collected before her arrival in 2011, earlier this year during a monthly
meeting with college presidents from throughout the state. The rankings were
based on data like student transfer, retention, and completion rates; the
percentage of graduates employed and their wages; the cost per graduate and the
time it takes to earn a degree. The state's performance-based funding system may
or may not include the same variables.

Florida's public four-year universities now earn part of their state funding via
a performance-based system based on factors like the percentage of graduates
employed or continuing their education, average wages of employed baccalaureate
graduates and cost per undergraduate degree.

Eaton said she was surprised by Daytona State's standing in the rankings, and
she feels there are flaws in any performance-based funding system, but she's not
opposed to the concept.

"It's very fair for (the public) to expect us to be accountable to them," Eaton
said.

Eaton, whose contract runs through Aug. 2, 2015, became president of the college
in August 2011. Trustees each rated Eaton from one to five in five areas:
leadership, external relations, budgetary/ fiscal management, personal
qualities, and relations with the governing board. She earned mostly 3, 4, and 5
scores.

During a discussion about Eaton's evaluation, Trustee Lloyd Freckleton urged
Eaton to be honest with the trustees about problems at the college.

"Keep searching because there are a lot of cubby holes out there and maybe
skeletons, I don't know, and in any organization you're going to find those
things," Freckleton said, adding, "Just keep looking for where we can improve
and finding those people -- if they're not up to standard, then you know what
you have to do."

Trustee Forough Hosseini said she was concerned about how poorly the college
fared compared to its peers across the state, but told Eaton that "something was
broken in the system before you came that should have been caught." Hosseini
said she fears that under a performance-based funding system, the college will
be tempted to make classes easier so more students will pass.

"Do I want to be number one? You bet, but I definitely don't want to lower
academic standards," Hosseini said.

But moving up in the rankings, Eaton cautioned, will be difficult.

"It is a yeoman's task -- it is going to take a lot of time and energy to make
that happen," she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2014 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2014 News-Journal Corporation

                              865 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Virginia Gazette, Williamsburg

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              April 7, 2014 Monday

Report: William & Mary in top five schools with 'smartest professors'

BYLINE: Christine Sampson, The Virginia Gazette, Williamsburg

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 255 words


April 07--William and Mary's ranking as the public school with the smartest
students is last month's news. This month's news: William and Mary is among the
top five schools with the smartest professors.

That's according to a USA Today report, which detailed findings from college
ranking service Niche that put William and Mary professors in the company of
Smith College, Stanford University, the University of Chicago, and the College
of Wooster. William and Mary is the only public school and the only school in
Virginia in that top five.

"Students feel affection and loyalty toward the college, professors and each
other, and most say they would choose William and Mary again, if they had the
opportunity," the USA Today report says.

Niche, formerly known as College Prowler, compiles rankings based on student
reviews and many other criteria. In March, BusinessInsider.com used Niche data
to name William and Mary's student body the smartest of any U.S. public school.

In a statement to the Gazette, Provost Michael Halleran called the ranking
"gratifying but unsurprising."

"I am delighted to see the excellence of our faculty recognized in this recent
ranking," he said. "More important than any one ranking is that William and Mary
consistently fares well in all of them. The core of William and Mary's
excellence resides with the talent and commitment of our faculty."

___ (c)2014 The Virginia Gazette (Williamsburg, Va.) Visit The Virginia Gazette
(Williamsburg, Va.) at www.vagazette.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20140407-1VG-Report-William-Mary-in-top-five-schools-with-smartest-professors-20
140407

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1VG


                      Copyright 2014 The Virginia Gazette

                              866 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          February 25, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY ESPN Top 25 coaches' poll;
College women's basketball

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 881 words


Poll taken before Tuesday's games.

Times p.m. Eastern.

1. Connecticut (28-0)

Points: 775 (31 first-place votes). Previous ranking: 1. Tuesday's result: Beat
Villanova 74-47. Upcoming games: Saturday vs. Seton Hall, Monday at Rutgers
(ESPN2, 7:30). Last week: Beat Providence 75-39, beat then-No. 24 Notre Dame
76-66.

2. Stanford (22-4)

Points: 722. Previous ranking: 4. Upcoming games: Friday at UCLA, Sunday at
Southern California. Last week: Beat Oregon State 72-43, beat Oregon 68-49.

3. Oklahoma (24-3)

Points: 683. Previous ranking: 2. Upcoming game: Saturday vs. Oklahoma State.
Last week: Beat Texas Tech 80-72, beat then-No. 5 Baylor 66-58, lost to then-No.
11 Texas A&M 57-56.

4. California (22-3)

Points: 661. Previous ranking: 6. Upcoming games: Friday at Southern California,
Sunday at UCLA (FSN, 3). Last week: Beat Oregon 84-42, beat Oregon State 62-40.

5. Maryland (23-4)

Points: 633. Previous ranking: 7. Upcoming games: Friday vs. Boston College,
Sunday at Miami (Fla.). Last week: Beat Georgia Tech 87-79, beat then-No. 8 Duke
77-59.

6. Auburn (26-2)

Points: 616. Previous ranking: 3. Upcoming game: Sunday vs. Arkansas. Last week:
Lost to then-No. 20 Vanderbilt 73-70, beat Georgia 65-59.

7. Baylor (21-4)

Points: 596. Previous ranking: 5. Upcoming games: Tonight vs. Texas Tech,
Saturday at No. 18 Texas. Last week: Lost to then-No. 2 Oklahoma 66-58.

8. Louisville (25-3)

Points: 544. Previous ranking: 9. Upcoming games: Saturday vs. No. 20
Pittsburgh, Monday at Marquette (CBS College Sports, 9). Last week: Beat St.
John's 89-60, beat Villanova 70-56.

9. Texas A&M (21-5)

Points: 528. Previous ranking: 11. Upcoming game: Sunday at No. 15 Kansas State
(FSN, 1). Last week: Beat then-No. 13 Texas 76-65, beat then-No. 2 Oklahoma
57-56.

10. North Carolina (24-4)

Points: 501. Previous ranking: 10. Upcoming games: Thursday vs. Miami (Fla.),
Sunday at No. 11 Duke (FSN, 5). Last week: Beat Boston College 92-68, beat N.C.
State 74-57.

11. Duke (22-4)

Points: 488. Previous ranking: 8. Upcoming games: Tonight at Wake Forest, Sunday
vs. No. 10 North Carolina (FSN, 5). Last week: Beat Virginia Tech 62-46, lost to
then-No. 7 Maryland 77-59.

12. Florida State (23-6)

Points: 436. Previous ranking: 12. Tuesday's result: Lost to No. 19 Virginia
68-63. Upcoming game: Sunday at Wake Forest. Last week: Beat Clemson 75-58, beat
Miami (Fla.) 59-58.

13. Xavier (24-4)

Points: 378. Previous ranking: 16. Upcoming games: Tonight at Temple, Sunday vs.
Fordham. Last week: Beat La Salle 72-42, beat Saint Louis 70-67.

14. Ohio State (22-5)

Points: 352. Previous ranking: 17. Upcoming games: Thursday vs. Wisconsin,
Sunday vs. Penn State. Last week: Beat Minnesota 73-62, beat Indiana 79-67.

15. Kansas State (21-4)

Points: 287. Previous ranking: 14. Upcoming games: Tonight at Nebraska, Sunday
vs. No. 9 Texas A&M (FSN, 1). Last week: Lost to Missouri 52-43, beat Colorado
72-60.

16. South Dakota State (26-2)

Points: 284. Previous ranking: 18. Upcoming games: Saturday at Centenary, Monday
at Oral Roberts. Last week: Beat North Dakota State 70-36.

17. Florida (23-5)

Points: 262. Previous ranking: 15. Upcoming game: Sunday at Georgia. Last week:
Lost to Arkansas 83-74, beat South Carolina 82-66.

18. Texas (20-7)

Points: 251. Previous ranking: 13. Tuesday's result: Beat Missouri 66-56.
Upcoming game: Saturday vs. No. 7 Baylor. Last week: Lost to Oklahoma State
58-52, lost to then-No. 11 Texas A&M 76-65.

19. Virginia (22-7)

Points: 207. Previous ranking: 21. Tuesday's result: Beat No. 12 Florida State
68-63. Upcoming game: Sunday vs. Georgia Tech. Last week: Beat Miami (Fla.)
84-75 OT, beat Boston College 90-70.

20. Pittsburgh (21-5)

Points: 204. Previous ranking: 22. Tuesday's result: Beat West Virginia 72-60.
Upcoming games: Saturday at No. 8 Louisville, Monday vs. St. John's. Last week:
Beat Villanova 70-54, beat Cincinnati 68-53.

21. Vanderbilt (21-7)

Points: 181. Previous ranking: 20. Upcoming game: Sunday at No. 23 Tennessee
(ESPN2, 7). Last week: Beat then-No. 3 Auburn 73-70, lost to Mississippi 71-69.

22. Notre Dame (19-7)

Points: 130. Previous ranking: 24. Tuesday's result: Beat Syracuse 90-79.
Upcoming games: Saturday at Providence, Monday vs. West Virginia. Last week:
Beat South Florida 86-79, lost to No. 1 Connecticut 76-66.

23. Tennessee (19-8)

Points: 124. Previous ranking: 19. Upcoming games: Thursday at LSU, Sunday vs.
No. 21 Vanderbilt (ESPN2, 7). Last week: Lost to Kentucky 66-56, beat
Mississippi State 82-68.

24. Iowa State (19-7)

Points: 61. Previous ranking: 23. Upcoming games: Tonight vs. Colorado, Saturday
at Texas Tech, March 3 at Missouri. Last week: Beat Nebraska 61-38, lost to
Kansas 58-47.

25. Bowling Green (23-2)

Points: 53. Previous ranking: not ranked. Upcoming games: Tonight at Buffalo,
Saturday vs. Kent State. Last week: Beat Akron 81-70.

Dropped out: No. 25 Middle Tennessee.

Others receiving votes: Arizona State (20-6) 40; Middle Tennessee (23-5) 40;
Marist (25-3) 16; Virginia Commonwealth (23-4) 7; DePaul (20-7) 4;
Wisconsin-Green Bay (23-3) 4; Boston College (18-9) 2; Arkansas-Little Rock
(22-5) 1; Gonzaga (22-6) 1; Mississippi State (19-8) 1; North Carolina A&T
(20-6) 1; Oklahoma State (15-10) 1.

The USA TODAY/ESPN Board of Coaches is made up of 31 head coaches at Division I
institutions. All are members of the Women's Basketball Coaches Association.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              867 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                             August 20, 2004 Friday

Rankings don't change much for ISU, IWU

BYLINE: Michele Steinbacher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 844 words


NORMAL -- Both Twin City universities maintained relatively the same placement
in U.S. News & World Report's annual college rankings.

Illinois Wesleyan University moved up three spots to No. 53 among the nation's
liberal arts colleges. It tied with five other schools among the 217 liberal
arts colleges ranked.

Illinois State University falls among the third tier of national doctoral
universities for the third year in a row. The four tier-system numbers rankings
for only the first two tiers.

ISU's third-tier rank means it falls somewhere between 130 and 181 among 248
U.S. universities judged in its category.

The figures, released Thursday, show ISU improved in subcategories that include
freshman retention rate, six-year graduation rate, number of classes under 50
students, SAT/ACT test scores, and acceptance rate.

That the ISU ACT score increased shows ISU now attracts better students, said
President Al Bowman. A better freshman retention rate shows ISU has improved its
investment in the freshman experience, he added.

Officials at both Illinois State and Illinois Wesleyan called their rankings
positive attention, but said the figures should play only a small role in how
students choose a college.

"University rankings are a sign you are getting national attention. But what's
important is that the public sees that as just one source of information," said
Bowman.

Similarly, Illinois Wesleyan spokesman Jeff Hanna was skeptical of the rankings.

"We are pleased with the ranking; our data is strong. But so many different
numbers can't capture what makes up the four-year experience. That's the
tragedy," said Hanna.

Illinois Wesleyan officials are proud of the 92 percent average freshman
retention rate and a 43 percent acceptance rate.

Those show the school is selective with students and it satisfies them, he said.

Hanna encourages prospective students to look at individual statistics of each
school rather than an overall rank.

Hanna prefers the Fisk Guide to Colleges over U.S. News' ranking because the
book format allows for more perspectives on the college to be included.

U.S. News surveys more than 1,400 higher education institutions for its annual
report.

Illinois State is compared among universities that include 162 public and 86
private schools offering many undergraduate majors, as well as master's and
doctoral degrees; many also strongly emphasize research, according to U.S. News.

Illinois Wesleyan is compared among 217 liberal arts colleges that emphasize
undergraduate education and award at least half their degrees in liberal arts,
according to U.S. News. All but 21 are private schools, said Hanna.

The top-three ranked schools in the national category are Harvard University,
Princeton University and Yale University.

Williams College and Amherst College, both in Massachusetts, and Swarthmore
College in Pennsylvania took the top spots in the liberal arts college listings.

In 2003, Illinois Wesleyan reached No. 50 on the list, but fell to No. 56 in
2004. Officials attributed that fall partly to a troubled economy that saw a
drop in alumni donations for the year.

In 2002, ISU first appeared in the third tier, after many years in the fourth
tier.

A jump to Tier 2 would be a major accomplishment, said Bowman.

"Those are the state's flagship schools," he said. It's impossible to guess how
far away such a jump would be, said Bowman, but he believes it's within reach.

----------

Illinois rankings

National universities

Top 50 - Three Illinois universities are among the top 50 national universities:
Northwestern University, University of Chicago and University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign.

Second tier - Only one Illinois school is in the second tier: Illinois Institute
of Technology.

Third tier - Besides Illinois State University, the third tiers include DePaul
University in Chicago, Southern Illinois University-Carbondale and University of
Illinois-Chicago.

Fourth tier - National-Louis University in Chicago and Northern Illinois
University in DeKalb made the fourth tier.

Liberal arts colleges

Top 50 - No Illinois colleges ranked among the top 50 liberal arts colleges.

Top 100 - Illinois Wesleyan University joined three Illinois colleges in the top
100: Wheaton College, Knox College, Augustana College and Principia College.

SOURCE: U.S. News and World Report

-------------

How they are ranked

1 - First, schools are categorized by mission, sometimes region.

2 - Data is gathered for up to 15 indicators of academic excellence. Each factor
assigned a weight that reflects U.S. News and World Report's view of how much a
measure matters.

3 - Colleges in each category then ranked against their peers, based on a
composite weighted score.

Indicators fall into the following groups:

- Peer assessment - weighted by 25 percent

- Retention - 20 percent

- Faculty resources - 20 percent

- Student selectivity - 15 percent

- Financial resources - 10 percent

- Graduation rate performance - 5 percent

- Alumni giving rate - 5 percent

SOURCE: U.S. News and World Report "America's Best Colleges"

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2004 The Pantagraph

                              868 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            November 7, 2017 Tuesday

BRIEF: Alabama football: Crimson Tide stays at No. 2 in second College Football
Playoff rankings

BYLINE: Chandler Rome, The Anniston Star, Ala.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 173 words


Nov. 07--TUSCALOOSA -- The same scores produced the same rankings.

After both teams dispatched divisional opponents 24-10 on Saturday, Georgia and
Alabama remained No. 1 and 2, respectively, in the College Football Playoff
Rankings revealed Tuesday evening.

The Crimson Tide beat LSU behind quarterback Jalen Hurts' 227 all-purpose yards
while Georgia piled up 438 total yards and created two turnovers against South
Carolina.

Notre Dame was No. 3 and Clemson was No. 4 -- the same top-four as the initial
rankings.

Mississippi State, Alabama's next opponent, was unchanged at No. 16. Georgia
plays Auburn, which rose four spots from No. 14 to No. 10 in Tuesday's rankings.

Contact Anniston Star Sports Writer Chandler Rome at crome@annistonstar.com
Twitter: @Chandler_Rome. Check facebook.com/annistonstar for Rome's Alabama
practice reports and live streaming of Nick Saban news conferences.

___ (c)2017 The Anniston Star (Anniston, Ala.) Visit The Anniston Star
(Anniston, Ala.) at www.annistonstar.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20171107-AO-BRF-Alabama-football-Crimson-Tide-stays-at-No-2-in-second-
College-Football-Playoff-rankings-1107-20171107

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AO


                        Copyright 2017 The Anniston Star

                              869 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Sunday Observer (Sri Lanka)

                              July 13, 2014 Sunday

Ishara, Rohan to lead CG TT teams

LENGTH: 564 words

DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, July 13 -- Table Tennis: Ishara Madurangi and Rohan Sirisena both
from Sri Lanka Air Force will lead the Sri Lanka woman and men's table tennis
teams for the Commonwealth Games to be held in Glasgow, Scotland next week. The
Sri Lanka team will leave on July 16th and return on August 4th.

Ishara Madurangi is Sri Lanka's number one player and has been the womens
national champion for the past six years and has also won it in 2005, 2006. She
has captained the Sri Lanka Womens team on a number of overseas tours including
the SAF Games, Asian Championship and the World Championship this year in which
Sri Lanka did well.

She is the first girl from Sri Devananda College, Ambalangoda to represent Sri
Lanka and is most experienced player in the team.

Fourteen-year-old Hansani Piumila Kapugeekiyana from Visaka College is the
youngest member of the team and she had climbed the ladder of success through
sheer performance and she along with schoolmate Chamathsara Fernando could be
the brightest prospects for the future.

Piumila Hansani who took to competitive table tennis only a few years while at
Anula Vidyalaya, Nugegoda had a national ranking of number three and her ranking
at junior level is both number two at under 15 and under 18.

Fifteen-year-old Chamathsara Fernando of Visakha Vidyalaya started her table
tennis at Girls High School, Mount Lavinia, before coming over to Visakha
Vidyalaya. A gritty player. She has a national ranking of number three and is
number one at under 15 and under 18.

The fourth member of the team is 19 year-old Erandi Warusawitharane of
Dharmasoka College, Ambalangoda with a national ranking of two and is the
current junior national champion. She represented Sri Lanka at the World
Championship held in Tokyo Japan earlier this year.

The mens team is led by Rohan Sirisena who is an old boy of Royal College,
Colombo and is currently ranked number one though he lost the national title to
Udaya Ranasinghe this year.

One of the finest paddlers to enter the table tennis arena and has been the
national champion for many years and led Sri Lanka on a number of overseas tours
including the World Championship held in Japan and the Asia championship and
helped Sri Lanka to move from the World ranking of 98 to 24 - a climb of 22
places.

Udaya Ranasinghe just 16 years is the current junior and senior national
champion - a very rare achievement. Has made many overseas tours. He has a
junior ranking of number one. He is from Vidyartha College, Kandy, and has still
not set for his G.C.E. Ordinary Examination.

Nirmala Jayasinghe - an old boy of Vidyartha College is presently employed at
MAS Holdings. He was the Senior National Champion two years ago and his current
national ranking is two.

The fourth member of the men's team is Dinesh Deshapriya with a national ranking
of number three doughty fifter and has been once the runner up at the Senior
National championship. Has won a silver and a bronze medal at the SAF Games has
a national ranking of three.

Former St.Anthony's College, Kandy paddler and current Chairman of the
Development Committee Manzil Muthalib is the Manager of the team with Lalith
Priyantha as the coach.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Sunday Observer (Sri Lanka).
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2014 The Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              870 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Financial Express

                            April 6, 2016 Wednesday

India's best

BYLINE: The Financial Express

LENGTH: 270  words


OVER THE years, there have been innumerable debates on the best educational
institutes in the country. Now, the ministry of human resource development has
brought some degree of clarity to the debate by releasing the first ever list of
the country's best engineering institutes, B-schools, universities and pharmacy
colleges under the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). While it has
devised means to rank six categories-Engineering, Management, Pharmacy,
Architecture, Universities and Colleges-of institutes, the available rankings do
not include architecture schools and general colleges since there were
significant gaps in the data provided by some institutes.

The NIRF ranking is based on five key parameters-teaching, learning and
resources (TLR); research, productivity, impact and IPR (RPII); outreach and
inclusivity (OI); graduation outcome (GO) and perception (PR). Not surprisingly,
the IITs take the top 11 spots among 1,438 engineering colleges (including 314
Category A and 1,116 Category B institutes), and six IIMs lead the 609
management institutes (142 Category A and 459 Category B). The NIRF has also
ranked 233 universities and 454 pharmacy colleges. In the future, it expects to
get greater amounts of data from the institutes to come up with a more
comprehensive ranking. That should include a ranking of general colleges too.
The rankings will finally provide a one-stop link on the world's third largest
higher education system after the US and China,with 795 universities, 39,671
affiliated colleges and 23.7 million students. It's a good beginning that should
be honed in the future.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2016 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              871 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                              March 4, 2005 Friday

Duhawks get no respect; 'Ridiculous' No. 16 ranking driving Loras at nationals

BYLINE: CLETE CAMPBELL

SECTION: Other; Pg. b4

LENGTH: 423 words


Call the Loras College wrestling team the No. 16 team in NCAA Division III, the
Duhawks will shoot you a look as if you insulted their mother.

"I can't even describe how I feel about that ranking," Loras 197-pound two-time
national qualifier Mitch Hager said.

"It's ridiculous," 174-pound qualifier Ryan Hagerty said.

"Everybody's telling us, 'Loras College, 16th,'" two-time 165-pound qualifier
Brad Bishop said. "16th? We have six qualifiers."

Thus, the Duhawks won't be lacking added motivation this weekend at the NCAA
Division III Championships at St. Olaf College in Northfield, Minn. Loras, which
finished fourth at last month's Iowa Conference Championships, heads to the mats
gunning for a top-10 team finish and dead set on restoring its reputation as an
elite national program.

The ranking "is such motivation," Hager said. "Nobody expects us to do anything.
A top-10 finish would be great."

Duhawks coach Randy Steward admits he's played the ranking as a motivational
tool.

"I don't think anybody's really given us a lot of respect," Steward said. "I
hope they think that."

With Iowa Conference 125-pound champ Terry Morgan (24-5 and wrestling for his
late father, Edward), Bishop (24-11), Hagerty (28-8), 184-pounder Tom Andrews
(27-6), Hager (21-8) and freshman heavyweight Ben McCready (21-12), the Duhawks
have the numbers. Loras' chances of contending for the top 10 will rely on its
performance in today's opening rounds.

Morgan has the No. 7 seed at 125.

"I love being the underdog. The underdog is fun," said Bishop, who entered the
2004 NCAA D-III Championships in Dubuque unseeded and fought his way to an
eighth-place finish and All-American honors. "We have a chance to be in the top
10 because a lot of the teams they have (ranked) in front of us have four
qualifiers. I see us taking over because we have a lot of potential and a lot of
places to go."

Elsewhere, University of Dubuque junior Cole Williams could be a sleeper in the
165-pound field after a 20-4 regular season. Williams grabbed the No. 7 seed in
a field that includes top-ranked and 2004 runner-up Garrett South (33-5) of
Luther. Former Western Dubuque prep Ryan Gotto (27-8) of Coe is in the field at
125.

At 285, defending national champion Ryan Allen (a former Iowa-Grant, Wis., prep
star) of UW-La Crosse looks to repeat.

There is real intrigue in the team race, where top-ranked Augsburg is favored to
dethrone two-time defending national champ Wartburg. The Auggies swept the
Knights in two regular-season encounters.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mug - Mitch Hager

                  Copyright 2005 Woodward Communications, Inc.

                              872 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Cleburne Times-Review (Texas)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           September 20, 2016 Tuesday

SWAU ranked as 21st best in US colleges

BYLINE: Ashley Rose, Cleburne Times-Review, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 354 words


Sept. 20--Southwestern Adventist University has once again been ranked as one of
the top schools in the nation.

The U.S. News and World Report puts out an annual comparison of colleges every
year. SWAU is ranked No. 21 out of 65 schools in its category this year, up from
No. 22 in last year's rankings.

"It is nice to receive affirmation from a reputable organization of the quality
we all experience on a daily basis," SWAU President Ken Shaw said.

SWAU Director of Marketing and Public Relations Darcy Force said the U.S. News'
rankings focus on academic excellence, with schools ranked on up to 15 measures
of academic quality. Overall, the rankings emphasize student outcomes including
graduation and retention rates.

"I encourage parents and students to use the wealth of data and information in
Best Colleges to identify schools that suit their specific needs," U.S. News
editor and chief content officer Brian Kelly said. "In addition to considering
factors like location and cost, families should pay close attention to
graduation and retention rates. These are important indicators of how well a
school supports its students both academically and financially."

SWAU Vice President for Enrollment Enga Almeida said they are pleased to be
recognized again and excited to have moved up in the rankings.

"Our upward movement reflects our improvement in our retention rate and the
outcomes of our students," she said.

The college ranking categories are based on the Carnegie Classification of
Institutions of Higher Education, the most widely accepted classification system
in U.S. higher education, Force said. U.S. News has used the Carnegie
classification system since the first best colleges rankings in 1983.

According to U.S. News, regionally accredited schools are categorized by their
mission, which is derived from the breakdown of types of higher education
institutions.

To view the list of colleges that made the list, visit www.usnews.com.

___ (c)2016 the Cleburne Times-Review (Cleburne, Texas) Visit the Cleburne
Times-Review (Cleburne, Texas) at www.cleburnetimesreview.com Distributed by
Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160920-XT-SWAU-ranked-as-21st-best-in-US-colleges-0920-20160920

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XT


                      Copyright 2016 Cleburne Times-Review

                              873 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   The Times-Tribune (Scranton, Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          September 9, 2015 Wednesday

Area universities earn national recognition

BYLINE: Sarah Hofius Hall, The Times-Tribune, Scranton, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 403 words


Sept. 09--An annual report has ranked area colleges among the best in the north.

For the 22nd consecutive year, the University of Scranton is in the top 10 of
the U.S. News & World Report list of "Best Regional Universities in the North."
Scranton is ranked eighth in the 2016 edition, which was released today.

Other area schools also made the list: Marywood University, 41st; Misericordia
University, 47th; King's College, 53rd; and Wilkes University, 83rd. Keystone
College was ranked 44th for best regional colleges in the north.

For the third year, Scranton is also among the colleges on the "Great Schools,
Great Prices" list, which compares academic quality of programs to cost of
attendance.

In addition, U.S. News ranked Scranton No. 7 in the north for "2016 Best
Colleges for Veterans," which include schools that are certified for the GI Bill
and participate in the Yellow Ribbon Program or meet other criteria. Marywood,
Misericordia and King's College are also on the list. The University of Scranton
also made the list for "A-Plus Schools for B Students," which recognizes
colleges where "nonsuperstars have a decent shot at being accepted and
thriving."

Rankings are determined by several factors, including graduation and retention
rates, assessment of excellence, faculty resources, student selectivity,
financial resources and alumni giving.

"We continue to be pleased by the consistent recognition the university receives
for the value of the education we provide to our students, as indicated by our
inclusion in national rankings such as U.S. News and other guidebooks," said
University of Scranton President Kevin P. Quinn, S.J.

Misericordia has climbed 20 places in the rankings since 2007, according to the
school.

"Misericordia may be a relatively young university, but we have a time-tested
mission to educate and serve our students and people here on campus and around
the world," said Misericordia University President Thomas J. Botzman, Ph.D.

Keystone is also pleased to be included in the rankings.

"We are particularly happy to be recognized for our excellent rankings for
student/faculty ratio and small class sizes," said Keystone College President
David L. Coppola, Ph.D.

Contact the writer:

shofius@timesshamrock.com, @hofiushallTT on Twitter

___ (c)2015 The Times-Tribune (Scranton, Pa.) Visit The Times-Tribune (Scranton,
Pa.) at thetimes-tribune.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150909-YT-Area-universities-earn-national-recognition-0909-20150909

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YT


                        Copyright 2015 The Times-Tribune

                              874 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 11, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY ESPN Top 25 coaches' poll;
College women's basketball

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 881 words


Poll taken before Tuesday's games

1. Tennessee (15-0)

Points: 771 (28 first-place votes). Previous ranking: 1. Upcoming games:
Thursday vs. No.17 Georgia, Sunday at Mississippi State. Last week: Beat South
Carolina 66-51, beat No.7 Connecticut 89-80.

2. Duke (14-0)

Points: 746 (3). Previous ranking: 2. Upcoming games: Tonight at Georgia Tech,
Saturday at No.22 Boston College, Monday at Holy Cross. Last week: Beat Florida
State 87-68, beat No.6 Maryland 86-68.

3. LSU (13-0)

Points: 713. Previous ranking: 3. Upcoming games: Thursday vs. South Carolina,
Monday at No.7 Connecticut (ESPN2, 7). Last week: Beat Auburn 65-38, beat
then-No.15 Minnesota 66-45.

4. North Carolina (15-0)

Points: 682. Previous ranking: 5. Upcoming game: Sunday at North Carolina State
(FSN, 5 ET). Last week: Beat Clemson 102-61, beat Miami (Fla.) 90-57.

5. Baylor (11-1)

Points: 613. Previous ranking: 4. Upcoming games: Tonight vs. Oklahoma State,
Sunday at Texas Tech (FSN, 3). Last week: Lost to Missouri 64-61, beat
then-No.24 Texas 61-48.

6. Maryland (14-2)

Points: 607. Previous ranking: 6. Upcoming game: Monday vs. Florida State. Last
week: Beat then-No.21 Boston College 67-64 OT, lost to No.2 Duke 86-68.

7. Connecticut (13-2)

Points: 606. Previous ranking: 7. Tuesday's result: Beat Seton Hall 93-53.
Upcoming games: Thursday vs. Cincinnati, Saturday vs. St.John's, Monday vs. No.3
LSU (ESPN2, 7). Last week: Beat Georgetown 80-38, lost to No.1 Tennessee 89-80.

8. Ohio State (11-2)

Points: 552. Previous ranking: 10. Upcoming games: Thursday at Iowa, Sunday vs.
Michigan. Last week: Beat Northwestern 82-54, beat No.16 Oklahoma 75-71.

9. Rutgers (10-2)

Points: 506. Previous ranking: 8. Upcoming games: Tonight at South Florida,
Saturday vs. Seton Hall. Last week: Beat Cincinnati 64-51, lost to then-No.13
Michigan State 73-71.

10. DePaul (15-1)

Points: 505. Previous ranking: 11. Upcoming games: Saturday vs. Villanova,
Tuesday at No.19 Notre Dame. Last week: Beat Pittsburgh 81-75, beat Marquette
67-52.

11. Purdue (12-2)

Points: 430. Previous ranking: 14. Upcoming game: Thursday at No.14 Minnesota.
Last week: Beat Indiana 61-56 OT, beat Michigan 51-43.

12. Michigan State (12-4)

Points: 423. Previous ranking: 13. Upcoming games: Thursday at Wisconsin, Sunday
at No.14 Minnesota. Last week: Beat Penn State 75-53, beat then-No.8 Rutgers
73-71, lost to Iowa 75-64.

13. Arizona State (12-3)

Points: 373. Previous ranking: 9. Upcoming games: Thursday vs. Oregon, Saturday
vs. Oregon State. Last week: Lost to Southern California 58-50, lost to UCLA
77-69.

14. Minnesota (10-3)

Points: 328. Previous ranking: 15. Upcoming games: Thursday vs. No.11 Purdue,
Sunday vs. No.12 Michigan State. Last week: Beat Wisconsin 73-67, lost to No.3
LSU 66-45, beat Indiana 69-64.

15. Stanford (10-4)

Points: 312. Previous ranking: 16 (tie). Upcoming game: Saturday vs. California.
Last week: Beat Oregon State 80-60, beat Oregon 76-64.

16. Oklahoma (12-4)

Points: 298. Previous ranking: 16 (tie). Upcoming game: Saturday at Oklahoma
State (FSN, 2). Last week: Beat Iowa State 87-67, beat Colorado 84-61, lost to
then-No.10 Ohio State 75-71.

17. Georgia (11-3)

Points: 296. Previous ranking: 18. Upcoming games: Thursday at No.1 Tennessee,
Sunday vs. Miami (Fla.) in Duluth, Ga. Last week: Beat Mississippi 84-70, beat
then-No.25 Florida 89-70.

18. New Mexico (12-3)

Points: 252. Previous ranking: 20. Upcoming games: Tonight at TCU, Saturday vs.
Wyoming. Last week: Beat then-No.22 Utah 59-42, beat Colorado State 73-57.

19. Notre Dame (10-4)

Points: 203. Previous ranking: 12. Tuesday's result: Beat Marquette 67-65 OT.
Upcoming games: Saturday at Louisville, Jan.17 vs. No.10 DePaul. Last week: Lost
to St.John's 66-63, lost to Seton Hall 74-61.

20. Temple (10-3)

Points: 171. Previous ranking: 23. Upcoming games: Tonight at George Washington,
Friday vs. Fordham, Sunday vs. St.Bonaventure. Last week: Beat Charlotte 77-69,
beat LaSalle 66-64 OT.

21. Vanderbilt (11-4)

Points: 142. Previous ranking: 19. Upcoming games: Thursday vs. Mississippi
State, Sunday at South Carolina. Last week: Beat Western Kentucky 72-57, lost to
Arkansas 52-51.

22. Boston College (12-4)

Points: 115. Previous ranking: 21. Upcoming game: Saturday vs. No.2 Duke. Last
week: Lost to No.6 Maryland 67-64 OT, lost to then-unranked Virginia Tech 67-62.

23. Virginia Tech (14-1)

Points: 104. Previous ranking: Unranked. Upcoming game: Monday vs. Virginia.
Last week: Beat High Point 91-52, beat then-No.21 Boston College 67-62.

24. Florida (13-2)

Points: 59. Previous ranking: 25. Upcoming game: Thursday vs. Kentucky. Last
week: Beat Alabama 59-44, lost to then-No.18 Georgia 89-70.

25. Washington (11-3)

Points: 55. Previous ranking: Unranked. Upcoming games: Thursday vs. UCLA,
Saturday vs. Southern California. Last week: Beat Washington State 73-70.

Dropped out: No.22 Utah, No.24 Texas.

Other receiving votes: Brigham Young (11-1) 42; Utah (9-4) 37; Missouri (13-2)
32; Louisville (11-2) 30; George Washington (9-4) 15; Miami (Fla.) (11-3) 15;
Louisiana Tech (10-3) 9; Texas (6-6) 9; North Carolina State (10-4) 8; Kansas
(12-1) 7; Nebraska (10-3) 3; Mississippi (10-5) 2; Virginia (11-2) 2; Kansas
State (12-2) 1; St.John's (12-2) 1.

The USA TODAY/ESPN board of coaches is made up of 31 head coaches at Div. I
institutions. All are Women's Basketball Coaches Association members.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              875 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                             August 27, 2006 Sunday

Lunch Menus

BYLINE: Sentinel & Enterprise

SECTION: COMMUNITY

LENGTH: 295 words


FITCHBURG -- Fitchburg State College has been ranked the highest among the nine
state collges in the annual U.S. News and World Report's Best Colleges edition.
The college has also been recognized for low student debt.

Fitchburg State is among the third tier of regional colleges and universities in
the northern United States ranked in the Best Universities Master's category.
The college is the only Massachusetts state college in the third tier ranking.
It joins such institutions as Central Connecticut State College, East
Stroudsburg University of Pennsylvania, Kean University in New Jersey and
Slippery Rock University of Pennsylvania.

U.S. News and World Report also listed Fitchburg State College as having among
the lowest debt among graduates. The college is ranked third of master's
degree-granting universities in the northern United States for low debt.
Fifty-five percent of students graduate with an average of $10,660 in student
loan debt.

"I'm very proud of the entire campus community, who as a group are responsible
for the success we've shown in the U.S. News rankings," said President Robert V.
Antonucci. "Our hard work in setting goals and working jointly toward achieving
them has paid off. It is indeed an honor to be recognized again by the most
prestigious ranking in the country."

The Best Colleges edition of U.S. News hit newsstands Aug. 21. Some rankings and
statistics are available at www.usnews.com.

Most of the data from the annual survey comes from more than 1,800 colleges and
universities through surveys and sources such as the American Association of
University Professors, the National Collegiate Athletic Association, the Council
for Aid to Education and the U.S. Department of Education's National Center for
Education Statistics.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2006 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              876 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             India Investment News

                        May 6, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

AffordableSchools.net Publishes 2014 Ranking of the Most Affordable U.S.
Colleges Offering the Best Return on Investment

LENGTH: 209  words


May 6 -- To help students make financially wise choices about the colleges they
attend, the higher-education website AffordableSchools.net has just published
its ranking of the 50 most affordable colleges in the United States with the
best return.



To appear in this ranking, it is not enough for a school to keep the cost of
tuition down. Besides keeping costs down, the schools in this ranking also have
an excellent track record of giving students the skills and credentials they
need to earn a good income.

Numerous studies show that people with a college degree earn substantially more
than those with simply a high school diploma (on average more than a million
dollars during a lifetime). The colleges in this ranking provide an even more
impressive return on investment (ROI).

According to John Ferrer, General Editor of AffordableSchools.net, "Because of
the soaring cost of a college education, substantial student debt, and a tough
job market, parents and students increasingly focus on potential income. That's
why we created this ranking of the most affordable colleges with the best
return.   We are very pleased to highlight these 50 outstanding U.S. colleges
that offer a quality higher education and strong job prospects at an affordable
price."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              877 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 11, 2012 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

U.S. News: Slight dip, at most, expected in GWU rank

BYLINE: Nick Anderson

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C03

LENGTH: 1551 words


The chief analyst behind the influential U.S. News & World Report college
rankings says the revelation that George Washington University inflated a key
measure of the academic credentials of incoming freshmen could, at most, yield
"a slight change" in the school's ranking.

GWU ranks 51st on the most recent U.S. News list of national universities. On
Thursday, the university disclosed that it had overstated the percentage of
freshmen in fall 2011 who were in the top 10 percent of their high school
classes.

Instead of 78 percent, as GWU first reported for that measure, university
officials said the share was actually 58 percent. That is one of many pieces of
data fed into the U.S. News ratings formula.

"If it does change GWU's current Best Colleges 2013 edition ranking . . .  it
would be a slight change," Robert Morse, data research director for U.S. News,
wrote in an e-mail Friday afternoon. "However, we are still trying to carefully
make that actual determination."

The GWU disclosure brought renewed attention to questions about whether
universities are providing the public with accurate admissions data in an era
when rankings and guidebooks based on that data have gained remarkable influence
with college-bound students.

This year, Claremont McKenna College in California and Emory University in
Georgia acknowledged that school officials had inflated SAT scores of incoming
freshmen in key reports.

GWU said an auditor has concluded that its SAT score reports are sound. But the
D.C. university acknowledged that for more than a decade, it has reported class
rank information in a way that inflated the academic credentials of incoming
students.

The flaw is related to a fundamental problem with the statistic: A growing
number of high schools don't report class rank information to universities. GWU,
for instance, bases the corrected 58 percent figure on data obtained for 38
percent of its 2011 freshmen.

For the other 62 percent, there was no class rank data.

The flaw in GWU's method, officials said, was that the university estimated how
many of those students were likely to have been in the top 10 percent of their
classes. Then, they said, it mistakenly combined those estimates with documented
class rank figures.

It is unclear exactly how much GWU's class rank data was inflated over the years
as a result of the flawed procedure.

On Friday, GWU provided a 15-year summary of how it reported the share of
incoming freshmen in the top decile of their high school classes.

For its 1997 freshmen, GWU reported the share as 45 percent, a percentage that
remained stable for a few years. For 2002 freshmen, the share jumped to 61
percent. For 2006, it was 65 percent. For 2010, it was 74 percent.

University officials said they have not calculated what the actual percentage
should have been during those years. But they said that they are strengthening
administrative oversight of data collection and reporting and that the
information will be routinely audited in coming years.

Steven Knapp, president of GWU since August 2007, said Thursday that he deeply
regrets "this error" and that "corrective action has been taken." Officials said
Knapp was unavailable for comment Friday.

For most of the past decade, GWU has ranked in the low 50s in the U.S. News
list. In 2008, it ranked 54th. It inched up to 50th in 2011 before falling back
a notch this year.

Critics of the U.S. News rankings say universities should not give the list
credibility - a point they want to reinforce after this year's disclosures about
Claremont McKenna, Emory and GWU.

"I'm hoping this set of incidents will shed some light that these rankings don't
accurately measure what parents should care most about, which is the
intellectual quality of the program and the level of student interest and
engagement," said John R. Kroger, president of Reed College in Oregon.

Reed College for years has refused to supply information for the U.S. News
rankings. Nonetheless, it is ranked 75th this year on the U.S. News list of
national liberal arts colleges.

Asked about the U.S. News rankings, Forrest Maltzman, senior vice provost for
academic affairs at GWU since June 2011, said, "Rankings are one indicator among
many that help parents and prospective students decide which higher-education
institution is right for them."

He added that the university had no evidence that anyone involved in data
reporting at GWU understood how much the methodology had distorted the
percentage of students reported to be in the top 10 percent of their high school
classes. "And we are not even sure what if any impact this had on our ranking,"
Maltzman said.

andersonn@washpost.com

The chief analyst behind the influential U.S. News & World Report college
rankings says the revelation that George Washington University inflated a key
measure of the academic credentials of incoming freshmen could, at most, yield
"a slight change" in the school's ranking.

GWU ranks 51st on the most recent U.S. News list of national universities. On
Thursday, the university disclosed that it had overstated the percentage of
freshmen in fall 2011 who were in the top 10 percent of their high school
classes.

Instead of 78 percent, as GWU first reported for that measure, university
officials said the share was actually 58 percent. That is one of many pieces of
data fed into the U.S. News ratings formula.

"If it does change GWU's current Best Colleges 2013 edition ranking . . .  it
would be a slight change," Robert Morse, data research director for U.S. News,
wrote in an e-mail Friday afternoon. "However, we are still trying to carefully
make that actual determination."

The GWU disclosure brought renewed attention to questions about whether
universities are providing the public with accurate admissions data in an era
when rankings and guidebooks based on that data have gained remarkable influence
with college-bound students.

Earlier this year, Claremont McKenna College in California and Emory University
in Georgia acknowledged that school officials had inflated SAT scores of
incoming freshmen in key reports.

GWU said an auditor has concluded that its SAT score reports are sound. But the
D.C. university acknowledged that for more than a decade, it has reported class
rank information in a way that inflated the academic credentials of incoming
students.

The flaw is related to a fundamental problem with the statistic: A growing
number of high schools don't report class rank information to universities. GWU,
for instance, bases the corrected 58 percent figure on data obtained for 38
percent of its 2011 freshmen.

For the other 62 percent, there was no class rank data.

The flaw in GWU's method, officials said, was that the university estimated how
many of those students were likely to have been in the top 10 percent of their
classes. Then, they said, it mistakenly combined those estimates with documented
class rank figures.

It is unclear exactly how much GWU's class rank data was inflated over the years
as a result of the flawed procedure.

On Friday, GWU provided a 15-year summary of how it reported the share of
incoming freshmen in the top decile of their high school classes.

For its 1997 freshmen, GWU reported the share as 45 percent, a percentage that
remained stable for a few years. For 2002 freshmen, the share jumped to 61
percent. For 2006, it was 65 percent. For 2010, it was 74 percent.

University officials said they have not calculated what the actual percentage
should have been during those years. But they said that they are strengthening
administrative oversight of data collection and reporting and that the
information will be routinely audited in coming years.

Steven Knapp, president of GWU since August 2007, said Thursday that he deeply
regrets "this error" and that "corrective action has been taken." Officials said
Knapp was unavailable for comment Friday.

For most of the past decade, GWU has ranked in the low 50s in the U.S. News
list. In 2008, it ranked 54th. It inched up to 50th in 2011 before falling back
a notch this year.

Critics of the U.S. News rankings say universities should not give the list
credibility - a point they want to reinforce after this year's disclosures about
Claremont McKenna, Emory and GWU.

"I'm hoping this set of incidents will shed some light that these rankings don't
accurately measure what parents should care most about, which is the
intellectual quality of the program and the level of student interest and
engagement," said John R. Kroger, president of Reed College in Oregon.

Reed College for years has refused to supply information for the U.S. News
rankings. Nonetheless, it is ranked 75th this year on the U.S. News list of
national liberal arts colleges.

Asked about the U.S. News rankings, Forrest Maltzman, senior vice provost for
academic affairs at GWU since June 2011, said, "Rankings are one indicator among
many that help parents and prospective students decide which higher-education
institution is right for them."

He added that the university had no evidence that anyone involved in data
reporting at GWU understood how much the methodology had distorted the
percentage of students reported to be in the top 10 percent of their high school
classes. "And we are not even sure what if any impact this had on our ranking,"
Maltzman said.

andersonn@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved

                              878 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                             August 18, 2006 Friday
                                  ALL EDITION

USC AIKEN RANKS AT TOP

BYLINE: By Julia Sellers South Carolina Bureau

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 342 words


AIKEN - U.S. News & World Report magazine has ranked the University of South
Carolina Aiken among the nation's top colleges for the fourth time since 2002.

USC Aiken is the best public comprehensive college in the South, according to
the magazine's 2007 list, released Thursday. The comprehensive category includes
four-year schools that focus primarily on undergraduate studies.

This is the ninth time USC Aiken has ranked among the magazine's top three
picks, including a first-place ranking last year.

"It's not so much about being in the rankings as it is to get some external
recognition of what we believe goes on at USC Aiken," said Tom Hallman, USC
Aiken chancellor. "We don't make any policy decision based on what we think it
will do in rankings, but what we do in policy decisions seems to reflect in
their indicators of quality."

U.S. News & World Report ranks colleges according to several criteria, including
academic reputation/peer assessment, student retention, faculty resources and
alumni donations. USC Aiken's average freshman-rate retention was 67 percent,
and it has a 16-to-1 student-teacher ratio.

USC Aiken Admissions Director Andrew Hendrix said in a statement that the
ranking definitely improves the school's reputation and students and parents see
it as an indication of the education a student will receive.

U.S. News & World Report breaks college and university rankings into six
categories, including national universities, liberal arts colleges and
comprehensive colleges. National universities include schools that offer a wide
range of undergraduate degrees and place emphasis on research. Harvard ranked
first among national universities in 2006.

Colleges in the liberal arts college category award more than 50 percent of
their degrees in liberal arts education.

USC Aiken ranks 32nd among all public and private comprehensive colleges in the
South.

The complete list of top colleges and universities will be available on
newsstands Aug. 28.

Reach Julia Sellers at (803) 648-1395, ext. 106, or
julia.sellers@augustachronicle.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              879 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 23, 2017 Saturday

College Factual Ranks UNF Among 2018 'Best Colleges'

LENGTH: 494  words



Jacksonville: University of North Florida has issued the following news release:

For the fourth consecutive year, the University of North Florida has been ranked
among the best colleges across the country in a new ranking, published in USA
Today, by College Factual, a trusted online resource that uses customizable
tools and outcomes-based rankings systems to guide students through the college
selection process.


UNF was ranked No. 21 nationwide as a "Top Ranked Veteran" university when it
comes to a quality education to veterans in computer information systems. The
University is also ranked as one of the best colleges in Florida for the money
and among the best colleges in the state. UNF was ranked No. 14 statewide as one
of the 2018 "Best Colleges for the Money" and No. 20 as one of the 2018 "Top
Quality Overall Best Colleges" in the state.
"We take great pride in being nationally recognized as one of the best
universities in Florida and for being recognized as delivering an exceptional
education at an exceptional value," said UNF President John Delaney.
This latest recognition comes on the heels of UNF receiving several other
national designations, including 2018 "Best Regional" University by U.S. News &
World Report, 2017 Higher Education Excellence in Diversity Award from Insight
into Diversity magazine, 2017 "Best College Value" by Kiplinger's Personal
Finance and 2017 "Best in the Southeast" by Princeton Review, to name a few.
College Factual ranked more than 1,300 colleges and used a number of
outcome-based factors to determine the ranking, which includes both research
universities and liberal arts colleges. Some important data points are how well
the institution retains and graduates students, the boost in expected earnings,
the percentage of full-time teachers and the average student loan default rate.
The rankings also looked at the quality and average cost of each college. For
more information, visit www.collegefactual.com .
"We publish a variety of college rankings to get students and parents focused on
key factors they need to consider when choosing a school," said Bill Phelan,
College Factual CEO.
College Factual is an online portal designed to assist prospective college
students, parents, guidance counselors and others involved in the college
selection process. By offering unique data-driven insights and tools that help
dissect the enormous amounts of data available for institutions of higher
education, College Factual simplifies the all-important act of choosing the best
school for each individual student in terms of cost, value and personal fit.
 UNF, a nationally ranked university located on an environmentally beautiful
campus, offers students who are dedicated to enriching the lives of others the
opportunity to build their own futures through a well-rounded education.

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              880 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                             August 18, 2006 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                  Main Edition

UGA down, Tech up in 'best' listing

BYLINE: ANDREA JONES; Staff

SECTION: METRO NEWS; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 901 words


For the first time in six years, the University of Georgia fell from the list of
the top 20 public institutions while Georgia Tech climbed a spot to No. 8 in the
loved, loathed and highly anticipated 2007 U.S News & World Report college
rankings.

The "America's Best Colleges" rankings will hit the newsstands Monday.

UGA President Michael Adams said he has not yet had time to analyze why UGA
dropped from 19 to 21 on the list but said the university is "in a pretty
selective group" of peer institutions.

"That hasn't changed," he said. "I'd rather move up than down. I've tried to
think this through this afternoon, but I don't yet know what the numbers are
yet."

Princeton University broke a three-year tie with Harvard for the top overall
national university ranking, which includes both public and private
institutions.

Emory University, which has been steadily ranked among the best universities in
the nation, jumped two spots in the overall rankings, to No. 18, tying with
Vanderbilt University in Tennessee. Emory was also recently tapped as one of 25
schools rated as a "New Ivy" in Kaplan/Newsweek's 2007 "How to Get Into College
Guide."

Emory's Goizueta Business School jumped five spots to No. 13 in U.S. News &
World Report's survey of undergraduate business programs.

"These rankings are an external validation of the work of many people at Emory
to provide a distinctive education for our students --- one where students
discover what they're good at and then use their talents to make the world a
better place," Emory University Provost Earl Lewis said in a statement.

Georgia Tech was ranked 38th among all national universities, down one slot from
last year. Tech tied for its spot with Case Western Reserve University in Ohio
and the University of California San Diego. The University of Georgia slipped
two spots from 58th to 60th overall.

The magazine ranks the schools on several factors, including reputation,
retention, graduation rates, class sizes, faculty resources, student quality and
alumni giving. While college presidents and administrators often quietly
complain about the rankings, schools pay attention to them because they are so
widely distributed in the media. Some school officials don't like them because
they say the methodology unfairly benefits some institutions over others.

Parents and students carefully read the guide to "America's Best Colleges" and a
school's position on the list is closely watched by its peer institutions.

J. Douglas Toma, associate professor of the Institute of Higher Education at the
University of Georgia, said small changes, like UGA's dip, are "essentially
meaningless." Schools move within their cluster of universities, jockeying for
positions each year.

"It is certainly in U.S. News' best interest to have a little bit of
year-to-year variation," Toma said. "If you have the same winner each year it
gets boring. Part of what they are doing is trying to generate buzz."

Still, the rankings often give schools a reason to crow or cry.

Agnes Scott was thrilled with the 2004 rankings when it broke into the top 50
liberal arts schools. Last year the school was ranked 55th and, this year, the
women's college dropped to 61st overall.

Rosemary Levy Zumwalt, vice president for academic affairs and dean of the
college, said Agnes Scott is focusing on the fact it's one of the top 10 women's
colleges in the nation.

"It's still too early to say what the decisive factors were; we'll know more in
a few days what came into play," she said of the school's overall slip. "So we
shift in the rankings; we haven't shifted in our excellence at all."

The magazine also lists alumni giving. The percentage of Tech graduates
contributing to the institute is the highest among any public university ranked
in the top 50. Its engineering school also placed well, as No. 6 in the nation.
Four of its programs ranked in the top five in the nation among their specialty
areas: aerospace engineering ranked second, biomedical placed fourth, civil
ranked third and industrial ranked first.

"Our engineering programs continue to be recognized as the best," Georgia Tech
President Wayne Clough said in a statement. "The consistency of the rankings of
the individual engineering programs bodes well for our continued success."

--------------

THE TOP NATIONAL UNIVERSITIES

1. Princeton University

2. Harvard University

3. Yale University

4. California Institute of Technology

Massachusetts Institute of Technology

Stanford University (tie)

7. University of Pennsylvania

8. Duke University

9. Columbia University

Dartmouth University

University of Chicago (tie)

HOW OTHER GEORGIA SCHOOLS FARED

Berry College ranked No. 2 in regional comprehensive colleges. LaGrange College
ranked No. 7.

Kennesaw State University earned a mention for offering first-year seminars and
academic programs that bring small groups of students together

Mercer University ranked 9th in the southern region for schools that offer a
master's degree as their highest degree. Georgia Southern ranked 53rd in the
same category.

Spelman College tied for 74th among liberal arts colleges.

Clayton State University was noted for its high level of student diversity.

Georgia State and UGA earned nods for graduating students with low percentages
of student debt. Georgia State's J Mack Robinson College of Business ranked 24th
in the nation among public universities and 42nd overall --- jumping five places
from last year

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 19, 2006



CORRECTION: The name of Dartmouth College was incorrect in a national listing of
top universities with a Friday front page story about how Georgia schools fared
in the 2007 U.S. News & World Report college rankings.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2006 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

This document could not be formatted for delivery. If your delivery request
included other documents, they completed successfully.

This document could not be formatted for delivery. If your delivery request
included other documents, they completed successfully.

                              883 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    Prince George Citizen (British Columbia)

                           November 6, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

UNBC teams earn respect for their work

BYLINE: Jason Peters, The Citizen

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 531  words


The UNBC Northern Timberwolves basketball teams have been rewarded for their
winning ways in preseason and the first two league games.

On Tuesday morning, the Canadian Collegiate Athletic Association released its
first set of national rankings for the season. The UNBC men's team occupied the
No. 3 spot on the list and the women's team came in at No. 13.

For both teams, the rankings are the highest in their history.

The UNBC men went 5-1 in preseason play and won their first two B.C. Colleges'
Athletic Association league games last weekend. Nationally, they are slotted
behind the Algonquin Thunder of Ottawa and the Northern Alberta Institute of
Technology Ooks, based in Edmonton.

"I think it's spectacular," UNBC head coach Zane Robison said of the lofty
national ranking. "We have a very talented team and that shows, but we're not
satisfied with that yet because everyone on the team believes we should be No.
1. That's a goal for us now, if we get No. 1 to maintain No. 1 for the entire
season. The guys really want to go to Montreal for nationals (March 20-22) and
we have to earn it."

Other BCCAA teams to crack the national list include the Kwantlen College Eagles
at No. 7, the University College of the Cariboo Sun Demons at No. 12 and the
University College of the Fraser Valley Cascades at No. 14.

As the top team in B.C., the T-wolves will be a target every time they play a
league game. Robison, however, sees that as a positive.

"We're not the underdogs anymore like we were in the preseason and they're not
going to take us lightly anymore," Robison said. "That allows us to keep on our
toes. We have to realize that we've got to work our tails off. We can't take it
easy in practice and take it easy in games and expect to win on just our talent
because that's not going to happen."

The UNBC men did not crack the national rankings last season. They climbed as
high as 13th in 1999-2000 and 2000-2001.

The UNBC women's team, with Loralyn Murdoch at the helm, played to a 3-3 record
in preseason and, like the men, won the first two games of league play last
weekend. The No. 13 ranking marks the first time the team has surfaced on the
national list. Murdoch is happy to have her T-wolves recognized but is keeping
it in perspective.

"It's a good thing for UNBC but it's not going to be really hyped up within my
own team," she said.

"We were ranked No. 4 in B.C. so we got the 13th spot in the nation. It's a good
thing to know that people in our conference believe that we're in the top four
and it's nice to know that our conference is strong enough to receive that
national ranking but it's early and it really doesn't mean a lot. We've got a
big game this weekend (against the University College of the Cariboo). We lose
that game, we fall out of the rankings, we win that game, we probably hold our
ranking. It's a little bit of a motivational thing."

Other BCCAA women's teams to earn national rankings include the University
College of the Fraser Valley Cascades at No. 3, the Capilano College Blues at
No. 6 and the Langara College Falcons at No. 8.

The UNBC women's game against UCC is set for 2 p.m. Saturday in Kamloops. The
UNBC men will tip off against UCC at 4 p.m.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2002 Prince George Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved

                              884 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                       April 5, 2002 Friday, Home Edition

ANNUAL SURVEY: State's grad schools highly ranked

BYLINE: KELLY SIMMONS

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Metro News; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 467 words


Georgia schools make a strong showing in U.S. News & World Report's Best
Graduate Schools edition, which hits the newsstands today, with Georgia Tech's
engineering program ranked fourth in the country, and three of the state's
business schools among the top 40.

Among the graduate schools that improved in the rankings from last year are:
Georgia Tech's College of Engineering, which climbed a notch from fifth place
last year. University of Georgia's Terry School of Business, which jumped to
34th place from 50th last year. Emory University's School of Medicine, which saw
both its research division and primary care operation improve in the rankings
over last year. In research, Emory climbed to 20th from 22nd. In primary care,
Emory medical school is ranked 25th this year, compared to 41st last year.

"We have long believed that our reputation would continue to rise across the
board in accordance with the growth in our research base and our accomplishments
in primary care," said Dr. Thomas J. Lawley, dean of the Emory School of
Medicine.

Georgia Tech officials credit the school's national standings to a continued
effort to hire quality faculty and recruit top students. Seven specialty
programs in engineering are ranked among the top 10 in the nation. The school's
industrial and systems engineering program is ranked first in the nation for the
12th straight year.

"These rankings are recognition of how Georgia Tech has moved steadily but
quickly up in the engineering world," said incoming College of Engineering Dean
Don Giddens, who now chairs the school's department of biomedical engineering.

University of Georgia saw its biggest improvement in the Terry College of
Business, which jumped 16 places from last year.

"We're ecstatic," said Dean P. George Benson of the Terry College. "Our MBA
program had the largest year-to-year improvement of any school in the ranking.
And we're closing in on being one of the top 10 public business schools in the
country, which is where we want to be."

UGA's College of Education and School of Law also are ranked among the nation's
top graduate schools, although both declined in the rankings from the previous
year. The College of Education fell to 23rd this year from 22nd last year. The
School of Law also slipped to 32nd from 27th.

In other areas, Georgia State University's part-time MBA program is ranked 5th
in the nation this year, maintaining its rank from 2001.

"I think it's a very strong reflection of the quality of our program --- the
strength of our faculty, the quality of our students," said Sidney E. Harris,
dean of the GSU College of Business. "We're very, very excited about it."

ON THE WEB: For more information about the rankings and to find out how other
schools fared: www.usnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 05, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphic:
HOW GEORGIA GRADUATE PROGRAMS STACK UP
Here are the top 5 schools in each category, as well as ranking of Georgia
schools:
Schools of Business
> 1. Stanford University
> 2. Harvard University
> 3. University of Pennsylvania
> 4. Massachusetts Institute of Technology
> 5. Northwestern University
> 22. Emory University
> 34. (tie) University of Georgia
> 39. (tie) Georgia Tech
Schools of Engineering
> 1. Massachusetts Institute of Technology
> 2. (tie) Stanford University; University of California, Berkley
> 4. Georgia Tech
> 5. University of Illinois, Champaign/Urbana
Schools of Law
> 1. Yale University
> 2. Stanford University
> 3. Harvard University
> 4. Columbia University
> 5. New York University
> 22. (tie) Emory University
> 32. (tie) University of Georgia
Schools of Medicine (Research)
> 1. Harvard University
> 2. Johns Hopkins University
> 3. Washington University in St. Louis
> 4. University of Pennsylvania
> 5. Duke University
> 20. Emory University
Source: U.S. News & World Report

                Copyright 2002 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                              885 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                          September 13, 2017 Wednesday

ISU ranked 83rd best public university U.S. News and World Report ranks best
colleges in nation

BYLINE: Lenore Sobota lsobota@pantagraph.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 471 words


NORMAL -- Illinois State University dropped slightly in the rankings among
national universities and Illinois Wesleyan University moved up one notch among
national liberal arts colleges in the latest Best Colleges rankings by U.S. News
and World Report.

ISU is ranked 83rd among the best public universities, down from 78th a year
ago, and 159th overall (both public and private schools), down from 152nd last
year. National universities are those that offer bachelor's through doctoral
degrees and emphasize research.

Despite the dip in the rankings, ISU President Larry Dietz said he was happy
with ISU once again being in the top 100 among national public universities.

"Any time you can be in the company with the elite, it's good," he said.

IWU tied for 71st among national liberal arts colleges, up from 72nd last year.
National liberal arts colleges focus on undergraduate education and award at
least half of their degrees in liberal arts fields.

Also ranked were Peoria's Bradley University, seventh among Midwest regional
universities, and Eureka College, 26th among Midwest regional colleges.

Many publications issue national rankings, but U.S. News tends to draw more
attention than others because it uses a lot of objective criteria such as
graduation and retention rates, class sizes, student-faculty ratios, alumni
giving and standardized test scores in addition to surveys of administrators and
high school counselors.

About 32 percent of classes at ISU have fewer than 20 students, and its
graduation rate of 72 percent exceed the national average of about 60 percent.

"Though we know that rankings are only a small piece of the Illinois State
story, the report reaffirms that our excellence is celebrated by more than
Redbird family and friends," said Dietz.

One change this year in the methodology for ranking national universities
focused on the proportion of degrees granted in the fields of science,
technology, engineering and math -- commonly referred to as STEM.

"We do OK overall, but we don't have engineering," noted Dietz.

Another area that hurt ISU's score was the percentage of applicants that it
accepts. ISU admits a higher percentage than some "more selective" schools and
"under the criteria they use, U.S. News dinged us a little bit" on that, said
Dietz.

Its fall 2016 acceptance rate was 89 percent.

Dietz considers the acceptance rate to be a sign of "a good enrollment
management program" that attracts the right applicants.

Even though ISU is accepting a higher percentage of applicants, "our academic
profile remains the same," he said, referring to the grade point averages and
standardized test scores of those who are accepted.

The University of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign ranked 14th among public national
universities and 52nd overall.

Follow Lenore Sobota on Twitter @Pg_Sobota

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 The Pantagraph

                              886 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            October 13, 2017 Friday

Six institutes of technology well placed in world ranking of colleges

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 506 words


They have been given top scores under a range of headings seeking to measure
colleges under broad headings of teaching and learning, research, knowledge
transfer and international orientation.

The U-Multirank scheme is a European Commission initiative aimed at helping to
identify individual colleges  strengths and weakness, rather than focusing on
ordered rankings.

University College Dublin (UCD) was the only Irish university included in the
science and technology ranking, but it is placed highest of all our colleges in
25th place among the 231 institutions compared.

It got A scores in four of the seven categories under which it was assessed,
mainly related to science and technology publications, and a B in three others.

Dublin Institute of Technology (DIT) got As in seven sub-headings, but its
scores were lower than UCD s, and it is ranked 38th.

They included As in three out of four internationalisation categories, and also
for art-related output, top-cited publications, spin-off companies and
publications cited in patents.

Galway-Mayo and Cork institutes of technology got four As each, both scoring top
marks for graduation rates on bachelor degrees and for international joint
publications.

The U-Multirank system gave Institute of Technology Tallaght three As and one to
Letterkenny Institute of Technology.

The number of Irish colleges ranked was just six, based on selection criteria
that limited the comparisons to those where at least 40% of graduates come from
science and technology fields, or universities with technical in their titles.
An U-Multirank spokesperson said it also only included institutions that award
PhDs, in order to compare colleges with a comparable profile and mission.

In the overall rankings published in April for 1,500 colleges in 99 countries,
DIT and University College Cork fared best, each scoring As in 13 of the 39
indicators counted.

But the six institutes of technology currently signed up to U-Multirank also
fared very well, receiving more As than many of the universities, including UCD
which received just five As on the broader institutional ranking.

The rankings emerged as Higher Education Minister of State Mary Mitchell O
Connor said this week she is determined to have a law passed by the year-end to
permit the creation of technological universities (TUs).

The Technological Universities Bill was published by the last government in 2015
but it is currently waiting to be considered by the Oireachtas education
committee, having been delayed over concerns about staffing and the consequences
of an application for TU status being declined.

It is now planned the bill will be amended to mean the previous proposal
requiring two or more institutes of technology to merge before seeking TU status
is not now in place. Instead, such a merger would only be finalised if and when
the TU designation is approved.

TUs will mark a step change in scale, impact and influence. They will drive
regional development and provide more opportunities for students,  she told the
Dáil yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              887 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 22, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Defense of College Rankings: U.S. News Fires Back

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 355 words


To the Editor:

''Why College Rankings Are a Joke'' (column, Sept. 18) is a cheap and
unsubstantiated shot at an organization that has been driving transparency in
higher education for the benefit of students and families for more than 30
years.

As Frank Bruni admits, ''the copious information that U.S. News collects about
the student bodies and academic tracks at hundreds of schools produces a mother
lode of useful facts and figures that go far beyond the numerical rankings.''

As to his point that we shortchange hidden gems like the University of Maryland,
Baltimore County, led by the redoubtable Freeman Hrabowski, we actually helped
put it on the map years ago atop our Up and Coming sub-ranking; this year it is
No. 5 on our ranking of Most Innovative Schools.

Mr. Bruni's time would be better spent investigating the real tragedy in higher
education -- rising tuition rates, ballooning student debt and poor graduation
rates. College is one of the biggest investments a family will ever make, and
students deserve more information before signing on for a lifetime of student
loan payments.

The U.S. News rankings and data are one resource. They encompass over 1,800
schools nationwide and expose prospective students to the range of college
options. U.S. News cannot measure everything. Some data we wish we could get our
hands on is not available; some does not help us make accurate comparisons.

We are well aware of the challenges of measuring diversity at large and complex
institutions. To Mr. Bruni's point about socioeconomic status, we incorporate
the percentage of students on Pell Grants, which are most often given to
undergraduates with family incomes of less than $20,000.

This is not a perfect measure of an institution's efforts to achieve economic
diversity. Still, it is the best available gauge of how many low-income
undergrads there are on a given campus. We challenge Mr. Bruni to come up with a
better measurement.

Our rankings haven't resolved every issue in higher education. But they are
surely no joke.

BRIAN KELLY

Editor and Chief Content Officer

U.S. News & World Report

Washington




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/22/opinion/a-defense-of-college-rankings
-us-news-fires-back.html

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company

                              888 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 26, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY Top 25 Coaches' Poll;
College football

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 16C

LENGTH: 718 words


Times p.m. Eastern

1. West Virginia (10-1)

Points: 1,467 (37 first-place votes). Previous ranking: 3. This week: Saturday
vs. Pittsburgh (ESPN, 7:45). Last week: Beat then-No. 21 Connecticut 66-21.

2. Missouri (11-1)

Points: 1,454 (17). Previous ranking: 4. This week: Saturday vs. No. 8 Oklahoma
in Big 12 championship game in San Antonio (ABC, 8). Last week: Beat then-No. 2
Kansas 36-28.

3. Ohio State (11-1)

Points: 1,383 (6). Previous ranking: 5. Next: BCS game to be announced. Last
week: Idle.

4. Georgia (10-2)

Points: 1,232. Previous ranking: 7. This week: Regular season complete. Last
week: Beat Georgia Tech 31-17.

5. (tie) Kansas (11-1)

Points: 1,161. Previous ranking: 2. This week: Regular season complete. Last
week: Lost to then-No. 4 Missouri 36-28.

5. (tie) Virginia Tech (10-2)

Points: 1,161. Previous ranking: 8. This week: Saturday vs. No. 12 Boston
College in Atlantic Coast Conference championship game in Jacksonville (ABC, 1).
Last week: Beat then-No. 15 Virginia 33-21.

7. LSU (10-2)

Points: 1,134. Previous ranking: 1. This week: Saturday vs. No. 15 Tennessee in
Southeastern Conference championship game in Atlanta (CBS, 4). Last week: Lost
to Arkansas 50-48 3OT.

8. Oklahoma (10-2)

Points: 1,126. Previous ranking: 9. This week: Saturday vs. No. 2 Missouri in
Big 12 championship game in San Antonio (ABC, 8). Last week: Beat Oklahoma State
49-17.

9. Southern California (9-2)

Points: 1,073. Previous ranking: 12. This week: Saturday vs. UCLA (ABC, 4:30).
Last week: Beat then-No. 6 Arizona State 44-24.

10. Hawaii (11-0)

Points: 958. Previous ranking: 13. This week: Saturday vs. Washington. Last
week: Beat then-No. 17 Boise State 39-27.

11. Florida (9-3)

Points: 898. Previous ranking: 14. This week: Regular season complete. Last
week: Beat Florida State 45-12.

12. Boston College (10-2)

Points: 861. Previous ranking: 16. This week: Saturday vs. No. 5 Virginia Tech
in ACC championship game in Jacksonville (ABC, 1). Last week: Beat Miami (Fla.)
28-14.

13. Arizona State (9-2)

Points: 756. Previous ranking: 6. This week: Saturday vs. Arizona. Last week:
Lost to then-No. 12 Southern California 44-24.

14. Illinois (9-3)

Points: 674. Previous ranking: 18. This week: Regular season complete. Last
week: Idle.

15. Tennessee (9-3)

Points: 654. Previous ranking: 19. This week: Saturday vs. No. 7 LSU in SEC
championship game in Atlanta (CBS, 4). Last week: Beat Kentucky 52-50 4OT.

16. Wisconsin (9-3)

Points: 493. Previous ranking: 20. This week: Regular season complete. Last
week: Idle.

17. Clemson (9-3)

Points: 469. Previous ranking: 22. This week: Regular season complete. Last
week: Beat South Carolina 23-21.

18. Texas (9-3)

Points: 417. Previous ranking: 11. This week: Regular season complete. Last
week: Lost to Texas A&M 38-30.

19. Brigham Young (9-2)

Points: 327. Previous ranking: 23. This week: Saturday at San Diego State. Last
week: Beat Utah 17-10.

20. Oregon (8-3)

Points: 316. Previous ranking: 10. This week: Saturday vs. Oregon State (ESPN2,
4:30). Last week: Lost to UCLA 16-0.

21. (tie) Auburn (8-4)

Points: 271. Previous ranking: 25. This week: Regular season complete. Last
week: Beat Alabama 17-10.

21. (tie) Virginia (9-3)

Points: 271. Previous ranking: 15. This week: Regular season complete. Last
week: Lost to then-No. 8 Virginia Tech 33-21.

23. Boise State (10-2)

Points: 247. Previous ranking: 17. This week: Regular season complete. Last
week: Lost to then-No. 13 Hawaii 39-27.

24. Cincinnati (9-3)

Points: 146. Previous ranking: Not ranked. This week: Regular season complete.
Last week: Beat Syracuse 52-31.

25. Arkansas (8-4)

Points: 145. Previous ranking: Not ranked. This week: Regular season complete.
Last week: Beat then-No. 1 LSU 50-48 3OT.

Dropped out: No. 21 Connecticut (9-3, lost to then-No. 3 West Virginia 66-21),
No. 24 Texas Tech (8-4, idle).

Others receiving votes: Texas Tech (8-4) 116, South Florida (9-3) 100,
Connecticut (9-3) 54, Air Force (9-3) 41, Penn State (8-4) 19, Central Florida
(9-3) 18, Michigan (8-4) 17, Wake Forest (8-4) 9, Oregon State (7-4) 7, Rutgers
(7-4) 6, Mississippi State (7-5) 4, Oklahoma State (6-6) 4, Michigan State (7-5)
3, Troy (8-3) 3, Houston (8-4) 2, Tulsa (9-3) 2, Fresno State (7-4) 1.

The USA TODAY board of coaches is made up of 60 head coaches at Division I-A
institutions. All are members of the American Football Coaches Association.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              889 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            February 4, 2018 Sunday

AICTE lauds RTU's ranking system for engg colleges

SECTION: JAIPUR

LENGTH: 278 words


Jaipur: Rajasthan Technical University's (RTU) system of ranking its engineering
colleges on a scale of 1000 points has won praise from the All India Council for
Technical Education (AICTE), the body governing all technical institutes in the
country.AICTE has sought details of the system after which it will direct other
technical universities to emulate it.The first-of-its-kind ranking system based
on 29 parameters - from parking space to size of the stairs - has been uploaded
on RTU's website to help students choose colleges.Dileep Malkhede, advisor,
AICTE, said, state-wide ranking by RTU is a progressive step."It is very
important as it gives the real picture about the status of colleges to the local
people. HRD does ranking for premier institutes which may not help the masses
but state-wide ranking certainly helps students in selecting the best institute
in their state," said Malkhede.He added that other state technical universities
should also adopt the formula to help students identify the best colleges.The
ranking was done by RTU after procuring information online on parameters like:
student-teacher ratio, number of courses, total enrolment of students and
teachers, number of smart classes, hostel and mess, insurance, playground,
number of students scoring first division marks, number of conferences, seminars
and journals published by the university in an academic session.The information
is uploaded on the RTU website.Officials say that they put in a lot of hard work
to come up with the ranking which will be evaluated every year.

Thus, institutes lagging behind in the ranking have a chance to improve. For
Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2018 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              890 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 28, 2016 Wednesday

N.C. A&T Top HBCU in N.C. for Fifth Consecutive Year, No. 2 in the Nation

LENGTH: 225  words

DATELINE: New York



 Raleigh: North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University has issued
the following news release:
 In its 2017 Best Colleges rankings release, the U.S. News & World Report has
ranked North Carolina A&T State University at the No. 1 historically black
college or university (HBCU) in North Carolina and the No. 2 public HBCU in the
nation.





 The multi-platform news provider ranked N.C. A&T No. 10 out of 80 colleges and
universities. To qualify for this ranking, a college or university must be
designated an HBCU by the Department of Education and be a
baccalaureate-granting institution that enrolls primarily first-year, first-time
students. The college or university had to take part in the 2017 Best Colleges
survey and ranking process.



 U.S. News & World Report ranked the colleges and universities based upon the
key measures of graduation and retention rates; peer assessment; faculty
resources; student selectivity; financial resources; and alumni giving.



 A&T was also ranked in the second tier of the Best National Universities and
among the nation's best institutions in the High School Counselor, Business
Programs and Undergraduate Engineering Programs (where the highest degree
offered is a doctorate) rankings.
 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              891 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              May 1, 2014 Thursday

DIT in top 100 colleges under the age of 50;
College is 94th in worldwide ranking of up-and-coming third-level institutions

BYLINE: Joe Humphreys

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 586 words


Dublin Institute of Technology has been named as one of the world's top 100
higher education institutions under the age of 50.

The college, which is seeking university designation under a merger plan with
two other institutes of technology in the city, was listed 94th on the Times
Higher Education "100 under 50" ranking, which describes itself as a "bespoke
evaluation" of the world's up-and-coming centres of learning.

It is the first time DIT has made the list, which features two other Irish
institutions: Dublin City University, which has slipped from joint 84th place
last year to joint 92nd, and NUI Maynooth, which has risen from 74th to joint
67th.

Asian colleges dominated the top rankings, with South Korea taking first and
third places in the table, via Pohang University of Science and Technology and
Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology respectively.

They were separated at the head of the list by ^%ocole Polytechnique F^8d^8rale
de Lausanne in Switzerland.

DiverseDIT president Prof Brian Norton welcomed the fact that an institution
such as his with a "very diverse set of learners" across different levels was
featuring in global rankings. "It's easier to get a high ranking by just
focusing on a very selective intake policy, or on graduate research, but we
would not be a research-led institution; we would be research-informed. It's
important we don't get deflected from that.

"The danger is you do obsess about these things [rankings] - and what you need
in Ireland is a diversity of educational institutions."

Phil Baty, rankings editor of Times Higher Education, said DIT's research output
and citation impact were key factors in its performance, along with its
reputation for teaching.

He said the inclusion of three institutes in the table was "a bright note for
Ireland" after "the relatively negative story" of slippage by the country's main
universities in the overall rankings.

"There is concern about the old prestige universities not holding their own
against the world's better universities. But this suggests a mixed economy and a
number of young institutions in Ireland that can play on the global stage."

QualityNUI Maynooth president Prof Philip Nolan gave a cautious welcome to
Maynooth's listing. "While rankings are subjective in nature and built largely
on opinion, this achievement is recognition of the scholarly reputations of our
staff, the quality of our research and our collective efforts to provide an
outstanding education for our students," he said.

NUI Maynooth was established as an autonomous university in 1997, arising from
St Patrick's College, Maynooth established in 1795.

DCU, which made the list for the third year running, was the only Irish
institution in the QS World Top 50 Under 50 university rankings published
earlier this year. Its president, Prof Brian MacCraith, said its performance in
both league tables "is testimony to the quality and commitment of our staff and
students".

DIT is relocating to Grangegorman, with the first 1,000 students due on campus
in September. It also intends to seek designation as a technological university
under new legislation, as part of a merger with Institute of Technology
Blanchardstown and Institute of Technology Tallaght.

Prof Norton said the designation would be useful as "it helps bring clarity to
what we are about". While no decision has been made on a name for the planned
institution, he said retaining DIT could be problematic given the risk of
confusion with remaining institutes of technology.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              892 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 17, 2014 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

College Acceptance Rates

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 269 words


To the Editor:

''Best, Brightest and Rejected: Elite Colleges Turn Away Up to 95%'' (front
page, April 9) did not mention the very large role that national magazine
rankings have played for over two decades in creating this frustrating
situation.

When I was dean of admissions at the Columbia University Graduate School of
Business in 1990, the U.S. News & World Report annual college-rankings issue was
beginning to enjoy great success. An admissions officer quoted in your article
referred to colleges being judged, and magazines are the ones doing the judging
and putting a number to it.

If a college did not want to participate in extensive surveying and provide
previously closely guarded data, the magazines would estimate the figures.
Gradually, admissions offices started playing the game, trying to ''score
better'' in the rankings. They focused on marketing in order to increase
applications and thereby selectivity.

Now we find the situation highlighted in your article, in which applying to
certain colleges is a ''crapshoot'' for most students since the odds of
admission are ridiculously low. The best course, rather than relying on college
rankings and putting students (and parents) through a self-imposed wringer, is
the old-fashioned method of doing your research, visiting campuses and finding
the best fit you can where your academic goals can be met.

After all, we are blessed in this country with a plethora of truly fine academic
institutions, many of which will provide a solid education to their applicants,
without going through the admissions wringer.

PATRICIA J. LANG Durham, N.C., April 11, 2014

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/04/17/opinion/college-acceptance-rates.html

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company

                              893 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The East Bay Times (California)

                          September 13, 2017 Wednesday

Saint Mary's in U.S. News top 10 regional western universities

BYLINE: Sam Richards

LENGTH: 183 words



HIGHLIGHT: Web-based magazine's "best colleges" rankings place Saint Mary's 19th
in Best Value for western regional universities, fifth in California for Best
Online MBA Programs and fourth in the state for Best Online Master's in Business
Programs


MORAGA  For the third year in a row, Saint Marys College of California is listed
as one of the top 10 regional universities in the west, according to the 2018
U.S. News & World Report best colleges rankings.

The Moraga-based college was also ranked 19th for Best Value for western
regional universities, fifth in California for Best Online MBA Programs and
fourth in the state for Best Online Masters in Business Programs.

We are extremely proud that Saint Marys has once again been recognized by U.S.
News & World Report as among the top 10 institutions of higher education in the
western region of the nation, said Saint Marys President James Donahue.

The U.S. News rankings focus on academic excellence, with schools ranked on up
to 15 measures of academic quality. Overall, the rankings emphasize student
outcomes, including graduation and retention rates, which together carry the
most weight at 30 percent.

The regional universities classification as analyzed by U.S. News includes 659
institutions within four broad regions  north, south, midwest and west. For more
detailed information, click here.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              894 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                           October 29, 2014 Wednesday

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 181 words


College Football Playoff Rankings, 2nd Ld-Writethru,0227

COLLEGE FOOTBALLPLAYOFF RANKINGS

Record

   1.  Mississippi  St. 7-0
   2.  Florida  St.     7-0
   3.  Auburn   6-1
   4.  Mississippi      7-1
   5.  Oregon   7-1
   6.  Alabama  7-1
   7.  TCU      6-1
   8.  Michigan  St.    7-1
   9.  Kansas  St.      6-1
   10.  Notre  Dame     6-1
   11.  Georgia 6-1
   12.  Arizona 6-1
   13.  Baylor  6-1
   14.  Arizona  St.    6-1
   15.  Nebraska        7-1
   16.  Ohio  St.       6-1
   17.  Utah    6-1
   18.  Oklahoma        5-2
   19.  LSU     7-2
   20.  West  Virginia  6-2
   21.  Clemson 6-2
   22.  UCLA    6-2
   23.  East  Carolina  6-1
   24.  Duke    6-1
   25.  Louisville      6-2


The College Football Playoff Selection Committee will issue weekly rankings each
Tuesday, with the final rankings being announced Sunday, Dec. 7. The playoff
semifinals will match the No. 1 seed vs. the No. 4 seed, and No. 2 will face No.
3. The semifinals will be hosted at the Rose Bowl and Sugar Bowl on Jan. 1,
2015. The championship game will be on Jan. 12, 2015 at Arlington, Texas.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2014 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved

                              895 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Alabama remains No. 1 in College Football Playoff rankings

BYLINE: Tony Tsoukalas, The Anniston Star, Ala.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 345 words


Nov. 30--TUSCALOOSA -- Alabama will head into Saturday's SEC Championship Game
as the No. 1 team in the nation, as the Crimson Tide maintained the top spot in
the College Football Playoff rankings released Tuesday.

Alabama (12-0, 8-0 in the SEC) has held its spot at No. 1 in all five weeks the
CFP rankings has been released. The Tide is thought by many to be a lock as one
of the four teams selected for the playoff regardless of what happens Saturday
when it plays No. 15 Florida for the SEC title.

Alabama is followed by No. 2 Ohio State, No. 3 Clemson and No. 4 Washington in
the top four, while No. 5 Michigan and No. 6 Wisconsin would be the first two
teams left out of the playoff if it was held today.

Clemson will play No. 23 Virginia Tech Saturday, while Washington will take on
No. 8 Colorado in the Pac 12 Championship Game. Wisconsin will face off against
No. 7 Penn State in the Big Ten Championship Game.

The four playoff teams will be announced on Sunday at 11 a.m. on ESPN.

Auburn dropped one spot to No. 14 but still remains the second-highest rated SEC
team in the rankings. If Alabama wins the SEC Championship Game and is selected
as one of the four playoff teams, Auburn would represent the SEC in the Sugar
Bowl.

The SEC has five teams represented in the CFP rankings, including No. 1 Alabama,
No. 14 Auburn, No. 15 Florida, No. 21 LSU and No. 22 Tennessee.

Alabama will play Florida (8-3, 6-2) on Saturday at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta
at 3 p.m. The game will be televised nationally on CBS.

College Football Playoff rankings

1. Alabama

2. Ohio State

3. Clemson

4. Washington

5. Michigan

6. Wisconsin

7. Penn State

8. Colorado

9. Oklahoma

10. Oklahoma State

11. Southern California

12. Florida State

13. Louisville

14. Auburn

15. Florida

16. West Virginia

17. Western Michigan

18. Stanford

19. Navy

20. Utah

21. LSU

22. Tennessee

23. Virginia Tech

24. Houston

25. Pittsburgh

Follow Tony Tsoukalas on Twitter @Tony_Tsoukalas.

___ (c)2016 The Anniston Star (Anniston, Ala.) Visit The Anniston Star
(Anniston, Ala.) at www.annistonstar.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20161130-AO-Alabama-remains-No-1-in-College-Football-Playoff-rankings
-1130-20161130

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AO


                        Copyright 2016 The Anniston Star

                              896 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                 October 12, 1998, Monday, CONSTITUTION EDITION

Jackets rewarded in polls: No. 25

BYLINE: Carroll Rogers

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 01D

LENGTH: 182 words


Four wins removed from its season-opening loss to Boston College, Georgia Tech
has earned its first national ranking of the season.

Following a 47-24 win at then-No. 23 N.C. State Saturday, the Yellow Jackets
(4-1) moved into the Associated Press and the ESPN/USA Today polls Sunday at No.
25.

In the New York Times computer rankings, Georgia Tech is ranked No. 9.

Tech coach George O'Leary said he has never put much stock in getting a
midseason ranking, and isn't going to start now. But with Virginia, which moved
up two notches in the AP poll to No. 7 after an off week, coming to Bobby Dodd
Stadium on Saturday, the Yellow Jackets' ranking lends added signficance to
Saturday's matchup.

"For the most part, the polls are a farce," O'Leary said Sunday. "To myself, and
what I preach to the team, you just worry about where you are in November."

The Yellow Jackets spent two weeks ranked in the Top 25 last season before
losing to Florida State 38-0 on Oct. 18. That was the first of three consecutive
Tech losses, including games against North Carolina and Virginia.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Metro

GRAPHIC: Photo :
 Tech coach George O'Leary shrugged off the ranking, calling the polls "a
 farce" until season's end. / JOHNNY CRAWFORD / Staff

                    Copyright 1998 The Atlanta Constitution

                              897 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                            December 7, 2014 Sunday

Rose Bowl matchup to be announced today

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 501 words


PASADENA (CNS) - The participants for the first Rose Bowl Game to be chosen by
the College Football Playoff Selection Committee will be announced today.

The College Football Playoff announced in January 2013 that the Rose Bowl Game
and Sugar Bowl would serve as the two semifinals for the first year of the
four-team playoff.

A 12-person committee with experience as coaches, college athletes, college
administrators and journalists along with current athletic directors has issued
rankings of the top 25 teams for each of the past six Tuesdays.

The top four teams in the rankings released today will play in the College
Football Playoff.

The top-ranked team will play the fourth-ranked team and the second- ranked team
will play the third-ranked team. The first- and second-ranked teams will be
placed  at the most advantageous sites, weighing criteria such as convenience of
travel for its fans, home-crowd advantage or general familiarity with the host
city and its stadium,  according to information post on the College Football
Playoff website.

The Rose Bowl and Sugar Bowl matchups will be announced live on ESPN during the
College Football Playoff Selection Show at 9:30 a.m. Pacific Time.

The semifinal winners will advance to the College Football Playoff National
Championship, which will be played Jan. 12 at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas.

In the rankings released Tuesday, Alabama was ranked first, Oregon second, Texas
Christian third and Florida State fourth.

Reflecting results of games played Friday and Saturday, Oregon has a 96.9
percent chance of being ranked second in the final rankings released today and
Texas Christian a 64 percent chance of being ranked third, meaning they would
play in the Rose Bowl, according to 20,000 simulations conducted by
FiveThirtyEight.com, the ESPN-owned website that analyzes data related to
politics, economics, science, life and sports.

The committee includes USC Athletic Director Pat Haden, former Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice, former Nebraska coach and Athletic Director Tom Osborne
and Tyrone Willingham, a former coach at Stanford, Notre Dame and Washington.
Committee members are barred from participating in votes regarding schools they
or immediate family members have ties to.

We start from scratch each week and evaluate small groups of teams against one
another and create the rankings through seven rounds of voting,  said College
Football Playoff Selection Committee Jeff Long, the vice chancellor and director
of athletics at the University of Arkansas- Fayetteville.

The committee is a group of college football experts whose task each week is to
take a fresh look at the rankings 1-25.

The Rose Bowl and the five other participating bowls -- the Sugar Bowl, Orange
Bowl, Fiesta Bowl, Cotton Bowl and Peach Bowl -- will be the site of a semifinal
game once every three years. During the years it does not host a semifinal, the
Rose Bowl game will have its traditional matchup between teams from the
Pacific-12 and Big Ten conferences.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              898 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                            December 7, 2014 Sunday

Rose Bowl matchup to be announced today

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 501 words


PASADENA (CNS) - The participants for the first Rose Bowl Game to be chosen by
the College Football Playoff Selection Committee will be announced today.

The College Football Playoff announced in January 2013 that the Rose Bowl Game
and Sugar Bowl would serve as the two semifinals for the first year of the
four-team playoff.

A 12-person committee with experience as coaches, college athletes, college
administrators and journalists along with current athletic directors has issued
rankings of the top 25 teams for each of the past six Tuesdays.

The top four teams in the rankings released today will play in the College
Football Playoff.

The top-ranked team will play the fourth-ranked team and the second- ranked team
will play the third-ranked team. The first- and second-ranked teams will be
placed  at the most advantageous sites, weighing criteria such as convenience of
travel for its fans, home-crowd advantage or general familiarity with the host
city and its stadium,  according to information post on the College Football
Playoff website.

The Rose Bowl and Sugar Bowl matchups will be announced live on ESPN during the
College Football Playoff Selection Show at 9:30 a.m. Pacific Time.

The semifinal winners will advance to the College Football Playoff National
Championship, which will be played Jan. 12 at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas.

In the rankings released Tuesday, Alabama was ranked first, Oregon second, Texas
Christian third and Florida State fourth.

Reflecting results of games played Friday and Saturday, Oregon has a 96.9
percent chance of being ranked second in the final rankings released today and
Texas Christian a 64 percent chance of being ranked third, meaning they would
play in the Rose Bowl, according to 20,000 simulations conducted by
FiveThirtyEight.com, the ESPN-owned website that analyzes data related to
politics, economics, science, life and sports.

The committee includes USC Athletic Director Pat Haden, former Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice, former Nebraska coach and Athletic Director Tom Osborne
and Tyrone Willingham, a former coach at Stanford, Notre Dame and Washington.
Committee members are barred from participating in votes regarding schools they
or immediate family members have ties to.

We start from scratch each week and evaluate small groups of teams against one
another and create the rankings through seven rounds of voting,  said College
Football Playoff Selection Committee Jeff Long, the vice chancellor and director
of athletics at the University of Arkansas- Fayetteville.

The committee is a group of college football experts whose task each week is to
take a fresh look at the rankings 1-25.

The Rose Bowl and the five other participating bowls -- the Sugar Bowl, Orange
Bowl, Fiesta Bowl, Cotton Bowl and Peach Bowl -- will be the site of a semifinal
game once every three years. During the years it does not host a semifinal, the
Rose Bowl game will have its traditional matchup between teams from the
Pacific-12 and Big Ten conferences.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              899 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                            December 7, 2014 Sunday

Rose Bowl matchup to be announced today

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 501 words


PASADENA (CNS) - The participants for the first Rose Bowl Game to be chosen by
the College Football Playoff Selection Committee will be announced today.

The College Football Playoff announced in January 2013 that the Rose Bowl Game
and Sugar Bowl would serve as the two semifinals for the first year of the
four-team playoff.

A 12-person committee with experience as coaches, college athletes, college
administrators and journalists along with current athletic directors has issued
rankings of the top 25 teams for each of the past six Tuesdays.

The top four teams in the rankings released today will play in the College
Football Playoff.

The top-ranked team will play the fourth-ranked team and the second- ranked team
will play the third-ranked team. The first- and second-ranked teams will be
placed  at the most advantageous sites, weighing criteria such as convenience of
travel for its fans, home-crowd advantage or general familiarity with the host
city and its stadium,  according to information post on the College Football
Playoff website.

The Rose Bowl and Sugar Bowl matchups will be announced live on ESPN during the
College Football Playoff Selection Show at 9:30 a.m. Pacific Time.

The semifinal winners will advance to the College Football Playoff National
Championship, which will be played Jan. 12 at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas.

In the rankings released Tuesday, Alabama was ranked first, Oregon second, Texas
Christian third and Florida State fourth.

Reflecting results of games played Friday and Saturday, Oregon has a 96.9
percent chance of being ranked second in the final rankings released today and
Texas Christian a 64 percent chance of being ranked third, meaning they would
play in the Rose Bowl, according to 20,000 simulations conducted by
FiveThirtyEight.com, the ESPN-owned website that analyzes data related to
politics, economics, science, life and sports.

The committee includes USC Athletic Director Pat Haden, former Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice, former Nebraska coach and Athletic Director Tom Osborne
and Tyrone Willingham, a former coach at Stanford, Notre Dame and Washington.
Committee members are barred from participating in votes regarding schools they
or immediate family members have ties to.

We start from scratch each week and evaluate small groups of teams against one
another and create the rankings through seven rounds of voting,  said College
Football Playoff Selection Committee Jeff Long, the vice chancellor and director
of athletics at the University of Arkansas- Fayetteville.

The committee is a group of college football experts whose task each week is to
take a fresh look at the rankings 1-25.

The Rose Bowl and the five other participating bowls -- the Sugar Bowl, Orange
Bowl, Fiesta Bowl, Cotton Bowl and Peach Bowl -- will be the site of a semifinal
game once every three years. During the years it does not host a semifinal, the
Rose Bowl game will have its traditional matchup between teams from the
Pacific-12 and Big Ten conferences.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              900 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            December 7, 2014 Sunday

Rose Bowl matchup to be announced today

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 501 words


PASADENA (CNS) - The participants for the first Rose Bowl Game to be chosen by
the College Football Playoff Selection Committee will be announced today.

The College Football Playoff announced in January 2013 that the Rose Bowl Game
and Sugar Bowl would serve as the two semifinals for the first year of the
four-team playoff.

A 12-person committee with experience as coaches, college athletes, college
administrators and journalists along with current athletic directors has issued
rankings of the top 25 teams for each of the past six Tuesdays.

The top four teams in the rankings released today will play in the College
Football Playoff.

The top-ranked team will play the fourth-ranked team and the second- ranked team
will play the third-ranked team. The first- and second-ranked teams will be
placed  at the most advantageous sites, weighing criteria such as convenience of
travel for its fans, home-crowd advantage or general familiarity with the host
city and its stadium,  according to information post on the College Football
Playoff website.

The Rose Bowl and Sugar Bowl matchups will be announced live on ESPN during the
College Football Playoff Selection Show at 9:30 a.m. Pacific Time.

The semifinal winners will advance to the College Football Playoff National
Championship, which will be played Jan. 12 at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas.

In the rankings released Tuesday, Alabama was ranked first, Oregon second, Texas
Christian third and Florida State fourth.

Reflecting results of games played Friday and Saturday, Oregon has a 96.9
percent chance of being ranked second in the final rankings released today and
Texas Christian a 64 percent chance of being ranked third, meaning they would
play in the Rose Bowl, according to 20,000 simulations conducted by
FiveThirtyEight.com, the ESPN-owned website that analyzes data related to
politics, economics, science, life and sports.

The committee includes USC Athletic Director Pat Haden, former Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice, former Nebraska coach and Athletic Director Tom Osborne
and Tyrone Willingham, a former coach at Stanford, Notre Dame and Washington.
Committee members are barred from participating in votes regarding schools they
or immediate family members have ties to.

We start from scratch each week and evaluate small groups of teams against one
another and create the rankings through seven rounds of voting,  said College
Football Playoff Selection Committee Jeff Long, the vice chancellor and director
of athletics at the University of Arkansas- Fayetteville.

The committee is a group of college football experts whose task each week is to
take a fresh look at the rankings 1-25.

The Rose Bowl and the five other participating bowls -- the Sugar Bowl, Orange
Bowl, Fiesta Bowl, Cotton Bowl and Peach Bowl -- will be the site of a semifinal
game once every three years. During the years it does not host a semifinal, the
Rose Bowl game will have its traditional matchup between teams from the
Pacific-12 and Big Ten conferences.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              901 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 20, 2014 Thursday

Oklahoma: OBU Named Top 10 in Lowest Debt Burden

LENGTH: 327  words

DATELINE: Oklahoma City


Oklahoma Baptist University, The State of Oklahoma has issued the following News
release:

OBU recently ranked seventh nationally on a list of "50 Christian Colleges with
the Lowest Debt Burden." In an article published on
www.christianuniversitiesonline.org, an independent resource informing
prospective students and their families about Christian education, editor
Michael Templeton named OBU alongside other prominent Christian universities.

"This list attempts to present a ranking of Christian colleges and universities
whose class of 2013 graduated with the lightest debt burden," Templeton said in
the article. "With this ranking, we want to highlight schools that are excelling
in keeping the debt burden of their graduates as low as possible because we
understand the long term impact that excessive student loan debt has on today's
graduates."

The ranking was created via data points retrieved from the U.S. News & World
Report. The list focuses on two specific factors, the average amount of money
each school's graduating class of 2013 borrowed and the percent of graduating
students who borrowed.

OBU ranked seventh nationally and was ranked higher than any other Christian
university in the state with an average total indebtedness of $26,557 and a
borrow percentage of 61.8 percent.

This ranking comes on the heels of other national and regional recognitions for
OBU, including a spot as the highest ranked private university in Oklahoma on
Great Value College's rankings of 50 Great Affordable Colleges in the Midwest;
honors as a top 10 regional college in the West by U.S. News and World Report
for the last 23 years; and Oklahoma's highest rated regional college in the U.S.
News rankings for 21 consecutive years. OBU also recently announced it will be
offering guaranteed financial awards to all incoming freshmen beginning fall
2015.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              902 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          November 19, 2014 Wednesday

Oklahoma: OBU Named Top 10 in Lowest Debt Burden

LENGTH: 327  words

DATELINE: Oklahoma City


Oklahoma Baptist University, The State of Oklahoma has issued the following News
release:

OBU recently ranked seventh nationally on a list of "50 Christian Colleges with
the Lowest Debt Burden." In an article published on
www.christianuniversitiesonline.org, an independent resource informing
prospective students and their families about Christian education, editor
Michael Templeton named OBU alongside other prominent Christian universities.

"This list attempts to present a ranking of Christian colleges and universities
whose class of 2013 graduated with the lightest debt burden," Templeton said in
the article. "With this ranking, we want to highlight schools that are excelling
in keeping the debt burden of their graduates as low as possible because we
understand the long term impact that excessive student loan debt has on today's
graduates."

The ranking was created via data points retrieved from the U.S. News & World
Report. The list focuses on two specific factors, the average amount of money
each school's graduating class of 2013 borrowed and the percent of graduating
students who borrowed.

OBU ranked seventh nationally and was ranked higher than any other Christian
university in the state with an average total indebtedness of $26,557 and a
borrow percentage of 61.8 percent.

This ranking comes on the heels of other national and regional recognitions for
OBU, including a spot as the highest ranked private university in Oklahoma on
Great Value College's rankings of 50 Great Affordable Colleges in the Midwest;
honors as a top 10 regional college in the West by U.S. News and World Report
for the last 23 years; and Oklahoma's highest rated regional college in the U.S.
News rankings for 21 consecutive years. OBU also recently announced it will be
offering guaranteed financial awards to all incoming freshmen beginning fall
2015.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              903 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            December 7, 2014 Sunday

Rose Bowl matchup to be announced today

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 501 words


PASADENA (CNS) - The participants for the first Rose Bowl Game to be chosen by
the College Football Playoff Selection Committee will be announced today.

The College Football Playoff announced in January 2013 that the Rose Bowl Game
and Sugar Bowl would serve as the two semifinals for the first year of the
four-team playoff.

A 12-person committee with experience as coaches, college athletes, college
administrators and journalists along with current athletic directors has issued
rankings of the top 25 teams for each of the past six Tuesdays.

The top four teams in the rankings released today will play in the College
Football Playoff.

The top-ranked team will play the fourth-ranked team and the second- ranked team
will play the third-ranked team. The first- and second-ranked teams will be
placed  at the most advantageous sites, weighing criteria such as convenience of
travel for its fans, home-crowd advantage or general familiarity with the host
city and its stadium,  according to information post on the College Football
Playoff website.

The Rose Bowl and Sugar Bowl matchups will be announced live on ESPN during the
College Football Playoff Selection Show at 9:30 a.m. Pacific Time.

The semifinal winners will advance to the College Football Playoff National
Championship, which will be played Jan. 12 at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas.

In the rankings released Tuesday, Alabama was ranked first, Oregon second, Texas
Christian third and Florida State fourth.

Reflecting results of games played Friday and Saturday, Oregon has a 96.9
percent chance of being ranked second in the final rankings released today and
Texas Christian a 64 percent chance of being ranked third, meaning they would
play in the Rose Bowl, according to 20,000 simulations conducted by
FiveThirtyEight.com, the ESPN-owned website that analyzes data related to
politics, economics, science, life and sports.

The committee includes USC Athletic Director Pat Haden, former Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice, former Nebraska coach and Athletic Director Tom Osborne
and Tyrone Willingham, a former coach at Stanford, Notre Dame and Washington.
Committee members are barred from participating in votes regarding schools they
or immediate family members have ties to.

We start from scratch each week and evaluate small groups of teams against one
another and create the rankings through seven rounds of voting,  said College
Football Playoff Selection Committee Jeff Long, the vice chancellor and director
of athletics at the University of Arkansas- Fayetteville.

The committee is a group of college football experts whose task each week is to
take a fresh look at the rankings 1-25.

The Rose Bowl and the five other participating bowls -- the Sugar Bowl, Orange
Bowl, Fiesta Bowl, Cotton Bowl and Peach Bowl -- will be the site of a semifinal
game once every three years. During the years it does not host a semifinal, the
Rose Bowl game will have its traditional matchup between teams from the
Pacific-12 and Big Ten conferences.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              904 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 29, 2017 Friday

King's College Highest Ranked Local College in "Wall Street Journal" Rankings

LENGTH: 394  words



Harrisburg: King's College has issued the following news release:
 Further information: Contact John McAndrew
 Public Relations Office, (570) 208-5958
September 27, 2017 - King's College earned high marks for student outcomes and
engagement in the second annual college rankings released by "The Wall Street
Journal" in conjunction with Times Higher Education.


King's was the highest rated Wyoming Valley higher learning institution at 375th
among all United States colleges and universities.
The ranking "includes clear performance indicators designed to answer the
questions that matter most to students and their families when making one of the
most important decisions of their lives - who to trust with their education.
These questions include: does the college have sufficient resources to teach me
properly? Will I be engaged and challenged by my teacher and classmates? Does
the college have a good academic reputation? How likely am I to graduate, pay
off my loans and get a good job?"
The rankings are based on 15 factors across four categories: Forty percent of
each school's overall score comes from student outcomes, including how they fare
after leaving campus, 30% from the school's resources, 20% from how well it
engages its students and 10% from the learning environment.  King's received the
top local score in three of the four categories
In addition to the overall rankings, King's fared well in survey results of
100,000 college students in areas related to relative student satisfaction.  In
response to the question "Does your college provide an environment where you
feel you are surrounded by exceptional students who inspire and motivate you?"
King's received a score of 8.3 on a scale of 10.  King's received a score of 8.4
in response to the question "Does your college provide an environment where you
feel you are surrounded by exceptional students who inspire and motivate you?"

King's has also earned a place for nine consecutive years on an exclusive list
of "Best American Colleges" compiled for "Forbes" magazine by The Center for
College Affordability and Productivity based on multiple factors related to
success after graduation, affordability, student satisfaction, and student and
faculty achievement.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              905 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 13, 2014 Saturday

Berger-Sweeney Calls on Community to "Elevate Trinity College to its Highest
Potential"

LENGTH: 405  words

DATELINE: Hartford


Trinity College - Hartford Connecticut has issued the following news release:

While rankings are but one way to assess a college, the better-known surveys
frequently garner the attention of high-school students, parents, alumni and
alumnae, and a college's on-campus community. Today's release of the U.S. News
rankings warrants our collective attention.

Trinity is listed in the category "Best National Liberal Arts Colleges," and
this year the College dropped to number 45 from number 36, which was itself a
considerably lower rank than Trinity had a decade before.  While I am a firm
believer that college rankings provide only a small slice of information about
an institution-and sometimes skewed information at that-I certainly take note
when a ranking moves 23 points over a 10-year period, as ours has.  A decline of
this magnitude is simply not acceptable, and I commit, with your support, to
reverse this decline.

A college's score in the U.S. News rankings is made up of such disparate
elements as faculty salaries, the giving rate of alumni/ae, the standardized
test scores of incoming first-year students, and a college's reputation, to name
but a few.  Four primary factors that contributed to Trinity's lower rank this
year included declining scores on faculty resources, student selectivity,
alumni/ae giving, and the peer survey assessment by college administrators and
high school guidance counselors.  In a competitive market, this news is
worrisome.

The good news, from my perspective, is that the four areas of recruiting and
retaining the best students, assuring excellent resources for faculty, conveying
Trinity's strengths to guidance counselors, and binding our alumni/ae ever
closer to Trinity are priorities I have already identified for our College.
These issues are vital to sustaining the high quality of a Trinity education,
and inadequacies must be addressed.  Today, we as a college must look forward.

I invite you to roll up your sleeves and help elevate Trinity College to its
highest potential.  Take pride in our excellent institution and help us meet
this current challenge.  Focusing on students, faculty, staff, and alumni and
alumnae secures the future of Trinity. I will keep you informed on how we are
moving on these, as well as other priorities.  Together, we will achieve much.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              906 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 13, 2016 Wednesday

California: Georgetown University ranks CSUSB at No. 21 in U.S. for highest
earnings potential

LENGTH: 355  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Sacramento: California State University, The State of California has issued the
following news release:



 A survey based on highest earnings of former students found that Cal State San
Bernardino ranked No. 21 in a list of more than 1,400 colleges and universities
in the United States.Compiled by the Georgetown University Center on Education
and the Workforce, the survey showed that former CSUSB students had median
earnings of $45,500, $11,800 more that was expected for the year.





 The list also indicated that CSUSB was the third-highest California State
University campus to be ranked, following Cal State Bakersfield at No. 7 and Cal
State Stanislaus at No. 20. According to the Georgetown Center, graduate degrees
lead to 28 percent higher earnings than bachelor's degrees alone.



 The report, "Ranking Your College: Where You Go and What You Make," provides
students and families with a list of colleges with the highest earnings
potential.



 The report also includes rankings that correct for differences in earnings
among the schools, including majors, student's academic preparation before
starting college and the likelihood of graduate degree attainment.



 The Georgetown Center researchers provide three different sets of rankings for
schools yielding the highest salaries. The first focuses on earnings, the second
set of rankings adjusts for the choice of major or program, and the third set of
rankings accounts for differences caused by student's academic preparation.



 The full report and list of more than 1,400 schools of "Ranking Your College:
Where You Go and What You Make" is available online.



 For more information on CSUSB graduate programs, visit the Office of Graduate
Studies website.



 Set in the foothills of the beautiful San Bernardino Mountains, CSUSB is a
preeminent center of intellectual and cultural activity in inland Southern
California. Celebrating its 50th anniversary in 2015, CSUSB serves more than
20,000 students each year and graduates about 4,000 students annually.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              907 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 13, 2016 Wednesday

California: Georgetown University ranks CSUSB at No. 21 in U.S. for highest
earnings potential

LENGTH: 355  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Sacramento: California State University, The State of California has issued the
following news release:



 A survey based on highest earnings of former students found that Cal State San
Bernardino ranked No. 21 in a list of more than 1,400 colleges and universities
in the United States.Compiled by the Georgetown University Center on Education
and the Workforce, the survey showed that former CSUSB students had median
earnings of $45,500, $11,800 more that was expected for the year.





 The list also indicated that CSUSB was the third-highest California State
University campus to be ranked, following Cal State Bakersfield at No. 7 and Cal
State Stanislaus at No. 20. According to the Georgetown Center, graduate degrees
lead to 28 percent higher earnings than bachelor's degrees alone.



 The report, "Ranking Your College: Where You Go and What You Make," provides
students and families with a list of colleges with the highest earnings
potential.



 The report also includes rankings that correct for differences in earnings
among the schools, including majors, student's academic preparation before
starting college and the likelihood of graduate degree attainment.



 The Georgetown Center researchers provide three different sets of rankings for
schools yielding the highest salaries. The first focuses on earnings, the second
set of rankings adjusts for the choice of major or program, and the third set of
rankings accounts for differences caused by student's academic preparation.



 The full report and list of more than 1,400 schools of "Ranking Your College:
Where You Go and What You Make" is available online.



 For more information on CSUSB graduate programs, visit the Office of Graduate
Studies website.



 Set in the foothills of the beautiful San Bernardino Mountains, CSUSB is a
preeminent center of intellectual and cultural activity in inland Southern
California. Celebrating its 50th anniversary in 2015, CSUSB serves more than
20,000 students each year and graduates about 4,000 students annually.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              908 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                           February 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Metro Edition

Class rank is not the measure of student, school decides;
Eden Prairie High School might drop class rankings from student transcripts,
following a trend at other high-achieving schools.

BYLINE: Joy Petersen, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 565 words


With students feeling mounting pressure to crack the top 10 percent of their
class rankings for college admissions, the principal of Eden Prairie High School
wants to join other high-achieving schools in the region in eliminating class
rank from students' transcripts.

Principal Conn McCartan has submitted the proposal to the Eden Prairie school
board, arguing that by eliminating rankings, students would feel less pressure
and ultimately could take more "rigorous courses" without the fear of slipping
in class rank, which many consider all-important in college admissions.

Many colleges use class rank to determine whether an applicant should be
considered for admission. Because Eden Prairie has such a competitive student
body, ranking in the top 10 percent of the current senior class requires a 3.89
grade point average or higher on a 4.0 scale. Eden Prairie High does not weight
grades for Advanced Placement and other honors courses as some schools do.

The high school previously considered removing class rankings from transcripts
in 2004, but McCartan said the proposal did not win approval from the school
board. He is more confident that it will pass this time around because other
area schools have set the precedent.

Wayzata, Edina and Minnetonka high schools already have stopped listing class
rankings on their student transcripts. And Hopkins and Delano high schools also
are considering dropping class ranks from transcripts.

Though class rank is rarely given as the definitive reason why an applicant is
not accepted to a college or university, McCartan said some students believe
their class rank has hurt them. "I don't know if we can exactly say that that
was the case," he said, "but some may feel that this is that way."

Boasting rights

Colleges and universities often boast of the percentage of their incoming
students who ranked in the top 10 percent of their high school class. At the
University of Minnesota, class rank percentiles are listed by school, and the
most selective, the Carlson School of Management, says 76 percent of this year's
freshman class ranked in the top 10 percent of their high school class. At the
University of Wisconsin-Madison, 59 percent of all freshmen this year ranked in
the top 10 percent as high school seniors.

At Eden Prairie, the high school assembled a Class Rank Task Force in December
to explore the issue. McCartan sent an e-mail to students and parents seeking
volunteers for the committee. Of those who responded, McCartan chose four
students, five parents and six staff members to serve on the panel.

Throughout January, the group met to discuss the benefits and drawbacks of
removing rankings from transcripts.

Phil Kittock, an Eden Prairie sophomore, said that in a school as large as Eden
Prairie, "there's a really big disconnect between having a good GPA and class
rank." He said by dropping the class rankings, student will be considered for
colleges based on factors that matter more, such as their overall GPA and the
courses they took.

"It encourages colleges to look at all the other aspects, including coursework
and GPA," he said.

The school board and superintendent will look at the proposal in the next few
weeks, and it could take effect for the students in next year's senior class.

For McCartan, "The sooner the better."

Joy Petersen is a University of Minnesota journalism student on assignment for
the Star Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WEST ONLY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2009 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              909 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                           September 10, 2013 Tuesday

County Fare: Williams a top liberal arts college

BYLINE: Berkshire Eagle Staff

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 668 words


Williams and Amherst are inextricably linked by history, tradition, athletics
and academics.

So it's no surprise that once again the two ancient rivals are rated highly in
U.S. News & World Report's annual rankings of the country's top liberal arts
colleges.

In this year's poll, Williams is ranked first, and Amherst second. Both schools
have topped the U.S. News & World Report rankings in previous years, and even
finished tied for the top spot in 2008. The magazine began ranking the nation's
top colleges in 1983.

For those who don't know, the two colleges have a unique history that enhances
their rivalry. Williams was founded in 1793, but was in so much financial
trouble by 1815 that then-college president Zephaniah Swift Moore took several
students with him to the Pioneer Valley to form a new school that became Amherst
six years later. Moore originally took the Williams job under the premise that
the college would move east.

The rivalry is most visible in athletics -- Williams and Amherst have the
country's fourth-oldest college football rivalry, and played the country's first
collegiate baseball game, which took place in Pittsfield, in 1859.

They are also part of the mythical Little Three conference with Wesleyan.
Wesleyan doesn't win many Little Three titles, and doesn't threaten Williams and
Amherst when it comes to the annual Liberal Arts College rankings either.
Wesleyan is a distant 17th this year.

The magazine's 2013 national university rankings are dominated by Ivy League
schools with Princeton, Harvard, Yale and Columbia ranked first through fourth,
respectively.

n

For students, learning how to prepare a nutritious meal goes-hand-in-hand with
receiving a good education.

Food Adventures, a program of The Nutrition Center, a Pittsfield-based nonprofit
in collaboration with The Berkshire Co-op Market, is preparing for the new
academic year by scheduling classes from North Adams to Great Barrington.

The program is a hands-on, standards-based cooking and nutrition program that is
designed to teach students basic cooking techniques in a fun, upbeat atmosphere.
Food Adventures also is intended to provide students with important nutrition
issues and exposure to healthy food choices.

During the 2012-13 academic year, Food Adventures held more than 250 classes all
over the Berkshires.

The instructors received positive feedback from several participants including
teachers, school nurses, and parents of participating students.

"It was terrific," said Mary-Jo Erickson-Connor, a school nurse in the Central
Berkshire Regional School District. "The sixth-graders ate it up, literally!"

TNC provides community-based nutrition education, cooking classes and clinical
nutrition counseling, with offices in Great Barrington and Pittsfield. For more
information on Food Adventures, visitwww.thenutritioncenter.org , or contact
Peter Stanton at (413) 329-0422.

n

Want to learn more about the real Josh Billings? Go to the Lenox Library on
Saturday.

On the eve of the 37th annual Great Josh Billings RunAground Triathlon on
Sunday, the library is hosting a program depicting the historic Berkshire
humorist titled "Josh Around Town: The Man. The Legend. The Aphorisms."

Actor Jeff Kent, with an assist from Kevin Coleman and Govane Lohbauer of
Shakespeare & Company, will portray Lanesborough native Henry Wheeler Shaw, who
used the pen name Josh Billings.

According to library development director Kelly Wickliff, "the event of wit and
wisdom will explore the life of the humorist for whom the triathlon is named."

The performance involves a one-act play authored by Lenox native David Fromm.
Kent will be joined by Amy Lafave, the information services librarian, in an
exploration of "life, love and local lore," Wickliff stated.

The program, a benefit for the Lenox Library, will take place from 4:30 to 6
p.m. Saturday at the library. Admission is $20 for adults, $10 for those under
age 21, and includes beverages and snacks.

Tickets are available by calling Wickliff at (413) 637-2630, ext. 121.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              910 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Alamogordo Daily News (New Mexico)

                            December 26, 2014 Friday

Editorial: Students lose out in university numbers game

BYLINE: Alamogordo News

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 511 words


If you thought the deluge of holiday catalogs and charitable solicitations this
season was overwhelming, consider what high school seniors confronted this fall:
hundreds of mailers from colleges and universities suggesting that they apply
and implying they might have a shot, even if they haven't met a school's high
standards.

Why so much marketing? It is largely the result of the college lists compiled by
publications, most notably U.S. News and World Report, that offer extra weight
in their rankings to colleges with low "admit rates"   those that offer
admission to relatively few of the students who apply. There was a time when
this sort of selectivity may have been an indicator of actual educational
excellence, at least in part. But thanks to the rankings-driven race among
colleges to appear increasingly choosy, it's no longer so clear what the admit
rate means.

Schools are now lowering their admit rate by inveigling more students into
applying   thus the shower of mailers, as well as hundreds of emails and the
occasional telemarketing call. And it works, to the detriment of parents'
wallets. Today, partly because of all the marketing and recruitment, students
are applying to about twice as many colleges as they did 15 years ago. As
admission rates have dropped to as low as 5 percent among the most elite
colleges, students have applied to even more of them. It's no longer very
unusual for a student to file applications to 15 schools, at $80 or so a pop.
(Though a few colleges are upping the number of applicants even more by making
the process free and pushing their deadlines later.)

Colleges wanted this   but also are paying for it. By cajoling more students
into applying in order to lower their admit rate, they're inadvertently
threatening their "yield rate"   the proportion of students who are accepted who
ultimately decide to attend the school. That number is used in some of the
rankings because, like the admit rate, it is also a supposed sign of
desirability. (U.S. News dropped the yield rate from its calculations a decade
ago in response to complaints.)

Turning this around will take a near-revolution among college leaders and
families. High school counselors have been telling students for years that their
happiness in college and their future success will depend more on finding the
right fit than in responding to the glossy brochures or the magazine rankings.
Students and parents need to start listening, because it's true. As for the
schools, they need to be brave. It would be easiest for the top-ranked colleges,
including the richest, most famous Ivy League schools, to start the ball
rolling. They have the least to lose because their reputations are solid and
they'll always draw plenty of students. They could demand that rankings
publications at the very least eliminate these two counterproductive
measurements, vowing not to provide any information at all for the rankings if
that doesn't happen. If those colleges and universities led the way, others
might muster the courage to follow.

The Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2014 Alamogordo Daily News, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved

                              911 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Las Cruces Sun-News (New Mexico)

                            December 26, 2014 Friday

Editorial: Students lose out in university numbers game

BYLINE: Las Cruces Sun-News

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 511 words


If you thought the deluge of holiday catalogs and charitable solicitations this
season was overwhelming, consider what high school seniors confronted this fall:
hundreds of mailers from colleges and universities suggesting that they apply
and implying they might have a shot, even if they haven't met a school's high
standards.

Why so much marketing? It is largely the result of the college lists compiled by
publications, most notably U.S. News and World Report, that offer extra weight
in their rankings to colleges with low "admit rates"   those that offer
admission to relatively few of the students who apply. There was a time when
this sort of selectivity may have been an indicator of actual educational
excellence, at least in part. But thanks to the rankings-driven race among
colleges to appear increasingly choosy, it's no longer so clear what the admit
rate means.

Schools are now lowering their admit rate by inveigling more students into
applying   thus the shower of mailers, as well as hundreds of emails and the
occasional telemarketing call. And it works, to the detriment of parents'
wallets. Today, partly because of all the marketing and recruitment, students
are applying to about twice as many colleges as they did 15 years ago. As
admission rates have dropped to as low as 5 percent among the most elite
colleges, students have applied to even more of them. It's no longer very
unusual for a student to file applications to 15 schools, at $80 or so a pop.
(Though a few colleges are upping the number of applicants even more by making
the process free and pushing their deadlines later.)

Colleges wanted this   but also are paying for it. By cajoling more students
into applying in order to lower their admit rate, they're inadvertently
threatening their "yield rate"   the proportion of students who are accepted who
ultimately decide to attend the school. That number is used in some of the
rankings because, like the admit rate, it is also a supposed sign of
desirability. (U.S. News dropped the yield rate from its calculations a decade
ago in response to complaints.)

Turning this around will take a near-revolution among college leaders and
families. High school counselors have been telling students for years that their
happiness in college and their future success will depend more on finding the
right fit than in responding to the glossy brochures or the magazine rankings.
Students and parents need to start listening, because it's true. As for the
schools, they need to be brave. It would be easiest for the top-ranked colleges,
including the richest, most famous Ivy League schools, to start the ball
rolling. They have the least to lose because their reputations are solid and
they'll always draw plenty of students. They could demand that rankings
publications at the very least eliminate these two counterproductive
measurements, vowing not to provide any information at all for the rankings if
that doesn't happen. If those colleges and universities led the way, others
might muster the courage to follow.

The Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2014 Las Cruces Sun-News, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved

                              912 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Silver City Sun-News (New Mexico)

                           December 25, 2014 Thursday

Editorial: Students lose out in university numbers game

BYLINE: Silver City Sun-News

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 511 words


If you thought the deluge of holiday catalogs and charitable solicitations this
season was overwhelming, consider what high school seniors confronted this fall:
hundreds of mailers from colleges and universities suggesting that they apply
and implying they might have a shot, even if they haven't met a school's high
standards.

Why so much marketing? It is largely the result of the college lists compiled by
publications, most notably U.S. News and World Report, that offer extra weight
in their rankings to colleges with low "admit rates"   those that offer
admission to relatively few of the students who apply. There was a time when
this sort of selectivity may have been an indicator of actual educational
excellence, at least in part. But thanks to the rankings-driven race among
colleges to appear increasingly choosy, it's no longer so clear what the admit
rate means.

Schools are now lowering their admit rate by inveigling more students into
applying   thus the shower of mailers, as well as hundreds of emails and the
occasional telemarketing call. And it works, to the detriment of parents'
wallets. Today, partly because of all the marketing and recruitment, students
are applying to about twice as many colleges as they did 15 years ago. As
admission rates have dropped to as low as 5 percent among the most elite
colleges, students have applied to even more of them. It's no longer very
unusual for a student to file applications to 15 schools, at $80 or so a pop.
(Though a few colleges are upping the number of applicants even more by making
the process free and pushing their deadlines later.)

Colleges wanted this   but also are paying for it. By cajoling more students
into applying in order to lower their admit rate, they're inadvertently
threatening their "yield rate"   the proportion of students who are accepted who
ultimately decide to attend the school. That number is used in some of the
rankings because, like the admit rate, it is also a supposed sign of
desirability. (U.S. News dropped the yield rate from its calculations a decade
ago in response to complaints.)

Turning this around will take a near-revolution among college leaders and
families. High school counselors have been telling students for years that their
happiness in college and their future success will depend more on finding the
right fit than in responding to the glossy brochures or the magazine rankings.
Students and parents need to start listening, because it's true. As for the
schools, they need to be brave. It would be easiest for the top-ranked colleges,
including the richest, most famous Ivy League schools, to start the ball
rolling. They have the least to lose because their reputations are solid and
they'll always draw plenty of students. They could demand that rankings
publications at the very least eliminate these two counterproductive
measurements, vowing not to provide any information at all for the rankings if
that doesn't happen. If those colleges and universities led the way, others
might muster the courage to follow.

The Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2014 Silver City Sun-News, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved

                              913 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           August 26, 2015 Wednesday

New York: Governor Cuomo Announces Four CUNY Colleges Ranked Highest as "Best
Bang For the Buck" in the Northeast

LENGTH: 560  words

DATELINE: Albany


New York State has issued the following news release:

Governor Cuomo announced that four out of the top five "Best Bang for the Buck"
four-year colleges in the Northeast are City University of New York colleges,
according to new rankings by the Washington Monthly.

"New York has a long and proud tradition of providing a high quality, affordable
education through our public colleges and universities," Governor Cuomo said.
"This latest ranking further emphasizes the value of earning a degree right here
in New York and I am proud of these CUNY campuses and this well-deserved
recognition."

The magazine's 2015 rankings place Baruch College as first in the Northeast in
value, followed by CUNY's Lehman College in third place, John Jay College of
Criminal Justice in fourth and Queens College in fifth. (Rutgers
University-Camden took second place.) The magazine's rankings also place two
CUNY campuses in the top 40, with CUNY's Brooklyn College at 26th and City
College at 27th among 402 colleges in the Northeast.

Among master's programs, the Washington Monthly's top 100 included CUNY's City
College (34), Brooklyn College (55), Hunter College (64), Queens College (81)
and Lehman College (99) among the 673 it considered.

According to The Washington Monthly, the 2015 rankings rate "four-year colleges
in America on three measures that would make the whole system better, if only
schools would compete on them." These criteria assess "their contribution to the
public good in three broad categories: (1) social mobility (recruiting and
graduating low-income students), (2) research (producing cutting-edge
scholarship and Ph.D.s), and (3) service (encouraging students to give something
back to their country)."

These are different criteria from those the magazine used last year in a ranking
that placed three CUNY campuses - Brooklyn, Queens and Baruch, in that order -
as offering the "best bang for the buck" in the nation. The magazine summed up
its 2014 survey criteria as doing "the best job of helping non-wealthy students
attain marketable degrees at affordable prices."

The 2015 "Best Bang for the Buck" listings can be found here

The rankings take into account data on student loan default rate; graduation
rate; students receiving federal Pell tuition assistance grants; net price for
all students, net price for students with annual family incomes under $30,000,
between $30,000 and $75,000, and above $75,000; percentage of applicants
admitted and test scores.

About The City University of New York:

The City University of New York is the nation's leading urban public university.
Founded in New York City in 1847, the University comprises 24 institutions: 11
senior colleges, seven community colleges, the William E. Macaulay Honors
College at CUNY, the CUNY Graduate School and University Center, the CUNY
Graduate School of Journalism, the CUNY School of Law, the CUNY School of
Professional Studies and the CUNY School of Public Health. The University serves
more than 274,000 degree-credit students and 218,083 adult, continuing and
professional education students. College Now, the University's academic
enrichment program, is offered at CUNY campuses and more than 300 high schools
throughout the five boroughs of New York City.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              914 of 995 DOCUMENTS



            Letcher County Community News-Press (Cromona, Kentucky)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                               September 1, 2010

Southeast And Hazard Among Three KCTCS Colleges Ranked Among Top 50

BYLINE: Letcher County Community News-Press staff

LENGTH: 389  words


The Kentucky

Community and Technical College System (KCTCS) is proud to announce three of its
colleges are ranked in the top 50 among community colleges in the 2010
Washington Monthly College Rankings.

Hazard Community and Technical College is ranked 18, Southeast Kentucky
Community and Technical College is 32, followed by Maysville Community and
Technical College at 47.

"It's an honor for our colleges to be recognized as some of the best in the
nation," said KCTCS President Michael B. McCall. "This confirms our vision of
being the premier community

and technical college system in the nation."

The college ranking list is compiled after an extensive - evaluation of active
and collaborative learning, student effort, academic challenge,

student-faculty interaction, support for learning and graduation rates.

The Washington

Monthly, a national publication based in Washington, D.C., noted the ranking of
America's best community colleges is based on two sources of information: the
Community College Survey of Student Engagement (CCSSE) and graduation rates
published by the U.S. Department of Education.

The CCSSE survey is managed by a nonprofit organization. The survey is given to
a representative sample of students at community colleges that voluntarily
choose to participate. The survey is comprised of 104 questions on a range of
topics. CCSSE combines the results of those questions into aggregate "benchmark"
scores in five categories. The benchmark scores are standardized to range from 0
to 100 with an average score of 50. Each college's ranking also is based on
graduation rates submitted by college to the U.S. Department of Education.

"When it comes to quality of instruction,, the best community colleges
outperform not only their two-year peers, but many elite four-year research
universities as well.

Research universities too often subordinate teaching to research. At the best
community colleges, teaching comes first," stated Washington Monthly.

For most Kentuckians, higher education begins at the Kentucky Community and
Technical College System. Our statewide system of 16 colleges, 68 campuses and
more than 100,000 students is a critical component to transforming the state's
economy by providing citizens with the education and training needed for high
growth, high wage careers.

For more information, visit kctcs.edu.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Accomplishment

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LCH

                      Copyright 2010 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
               Copyright 2010 Letcher County Community News-Press

                              915 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                          September 29, 2016 Thursday

UMFK ups status in U.S. News ranks

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: FORT KENT


- The University of Maine at Fort Kent moves up from 38th to 23rd among all
north region colleges, according to the U.S. News & World Report 2017 rankings.


The latest U.S. News & World Report rankings put UMFK in the top tier, ranked
23rd. That ranks UMFK 13th among public colleges in the North and follows
sixth-consecutive years as a top-15 public institution. UMFK first achieved
top-tier college status in the magazine's 2011 rankings.


"These rankings are another demonstration of the quality of the overall
educational experience that UMFK offers to the residents of a northern Maine and
to the entire state," according to UMFK President John Short. "We are more
committed than ever to affordability and student success in an environment that
promotes diversity, inclusion and lifelong learners," he added.


The 2017 rankings also listed UMFK number four among the Regional Colleges in
the North where students graduate with the least debt.


"With our merit and need-based scholarships, comprehensive work-study program,
and emphasis on retention and persistence, we are attempting to work with
students to reduce the amount of college debt that they face on graduation. This
US news ranking demonstrates that we are being successful in moving toward that
goal," said Short.


U.S. News & World Report bases the U.S. ranking on key measures that education
experts have proposed as reliable indicators of academic quality. The indices
include peer assessment; graduation and retention rates; faculty resources;
student selectivity; financial resources; and alumni giving.


The rating system rests on two pillars: quantitative measures that education
experts have proposed as reliable indicators of academic quality, and which are
based on U.S. News' researched view of what matters in education.


The North region includes Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode
Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News

                              916 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                          September 29, 2016 Thursday

UMFK ups status in U.S. News ranks

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: FORT KENT


- The University of Maine at Fort Kent moves up from 38th to 23rd among all
north region colleges, according to the U.S. News & World Report 2017 rankings.


The latest U.S. News & World Report rankings put UMFK in the top tier, ranked
23rd. That ranks UMFK 13th among public colleges in the North and follows
sixth-consecutive years as a top-15 public institution. UMFK first achieved
top-tier college status in the magazine's 2011 rankings.


"These rankings are another demonstration of the quality of the overall
educational experience that UMFK offers to the residents of a northern Maine and
to the entire state," according to UMFK President John Short. "We are more
committed than ever to affordability and student success in an environment that
promotes diversity, inclusion and lifelong learners," he added.


The 2017 rankings also listed UMFK number four among the Regional Colleges in
the North where students graduate with the least debt.


"With our merit and need-based scholarships, comprehensive work-study program,
and emphasis on retention and persistence, we are attempting to work with
students to reduce the amount of college debt that they face on graduation. This
US news ranking demonstrates that we are being successful in moving toward that
goal," said Short.


U.S. News & World Report bases the U.S. ranking on key measures that education
experts have proposed as reliable indicators of academic quality. The indices
include peer assessment; graduation and retention rates; faculty resources;
student selectivity; financial resources; and alumni giving.


The rating system rests on two pillars: quantitative measures that education
experts have proposed as reliable indicators of academic quality, and which are
based on U.S. News' researched view of what matters in education.


The North region includes Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode
Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News

                              917 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                          September 29, 2016 Thursday

UMFK ups status in U.S. News ranks

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: FORT KENT


- The University of Maine at Fort Kent moves up from 38th to 23rd among all
north region colleges, according to the U.S. News & World Report 2017 rankings.


The latest U.S. News & World Report rankings put UMFK in the top tier, ranked
23rd. That ranks UMFK 13th among public colleges in the North and follows
sixth-consecutive years as a top-15 public institution. UMFK first achieved
top-tier college status in the magazine's 2011 rankings.


"These rankings are another demonstration of the quality of the overall
educational experience that UMFK offers to the residents of a northern Maine and
to the entire state," according to UMFK President John Short. "We are more
committed than ever to affordability and student success in an environment that
promotes diversity, inclusion and lifelong learners," he added.


The 2017 rankings also listed UMFK number four among the Regional Colleges in
the North where students graduate with the least debt.


"With our merit and need-based scholarships, comprehensive work-study program,
and emphasis on retention and persistence, we are attempting to work with
students to reduce the amount of college debt that they face on graduation. This
US news ranking demonstrates that we are being successful in moving toward that
goal," said Short.


U.S. News & World Report bases the U.S. ranking on key measures that education
experts have proposed as reliable indicators of academic quality. The indices
include peer assessment; graduation and retention rates; faculty resources;
student selectivity; financial resources; and alumni giving.


The rating system rests on two pillars: quantitative measures that education
experts have proposed as reliable indicators of academic quality, and which are
based on U.S. News' researched view of what matters in education.


The North region includes Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode
Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News

                              918 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                          September 29, 2016 Thursday

UMFK ups status in U.S. News ranks

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: FORT KENT


- The University of Maine at Fort Kent moves up from 38th to 23rd among all
north region colleges, according to the U.S. News & World Report 2017 rankings.


The latest U.S. News & World Report rankings put UMFK in the top tier, ranked
23rd. That ranks UMFK 13th among public colleges in the North and follows
sixth-consecutive years as a top-15 public institution. UMFK first achieved
top-tier college status in the magazine's 2011 rankings.


"These rankings are another demonstration of the quality of the overall
educational experience that UMFK offers to the residents of a northern Maine and
to the entire state," according to UMFK President John Short. "We are more
committed than ever to affordability and student success in an environment that
promotes diversity, inclusion and lifelong learners," he added.


The 2017 rankings also listed UMFK number four among the Regional Colleges in
the North where students graduate with the least debt.


"With our merit and need-based scholarships, comprehensive work-study program,
and emphasis on retention and persistence, we are attempting to work with
students to reduce the amount of college debt that they face on graduation. This
US news ranking demonstrates that we are being successful in moving toward that
goal," said Short.


U.S. News & World Report bases the U.S. ranking on key measures that education
experts have proposed as reliable indicators of academic quality. The indices
include peer assessment; graduation and retention rates; faculty resources;
student selectivity; financial resources; and alumni giving.


The rating system rests on two pillars: quantitative measures that education
experts have proposed as reliable indicators of academic quality, and which are
based on U.S. News' researched view of what matters in education.


The North region includes Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode
Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News

                              919 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                          September 29, 2016 Thursday

UMFK ups status in U.S. News ranks

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: FORT KENT


- The University of Maine at Fort Kent moves up from 38th to 23rd among all
north region colleges, according to the U.S. News & World Report 2017 rankings.


The latest U.S. News & World Report rankings put UMFK in the top tier, ranked
23rd. That ranks UMFK 13th among public colleges in the North and follows
sixth-consecutive years as a top-15 public institution. UMFK first achieved
top-tier college status in the magazine's 2011 rankings.


"These rankings are another demonstration of the quality of the overall
educational experience that UMFK offers to the residents of a northern Maine and
to the entire state," according to UMFK President John Short. "We are more
committed than ever to affordability and student success in an environment that
promotes diversity, inclusion and lifelong learners," he added.


The 2017 rankings also listed UMFK number four among the Regional Colleges in
the North where students graduate with the least debt.


"With our merit and need-based scholarships, comprehensive work-study program,
and emphasis on retention and persistence, we are attempting to work with
students to reduce the amount of college debt that they face on graduation. This
US news ranking demonstrates that we are being successful in moving toward that
goal," said Short.


U.S. News & World Report bases the U.S. ranking on key measures that education
experts have proposed as reliable indicators of academic quality. The indices
include peer assessment; graduation and retention rates; faculty resources;
student selectivity; financial resources; and alumni giving.


The rating system rests on two pillars: quantitative measures that education
experts have proposed as reliable indicators of academic quality, and which are
based on U.S. News' researched view of what matters in education.


The North region includes Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode
Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News

                              920 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                          September 29, 2016 Thursday

UMFK ups status in U.S. News ranks

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: FORT KENT


- The University of Maine at Fort Kent moves up from 38th to 23rd among all
north region colleges, according to the U.S. News & World Report 2017 rankings.


The latest U.S. News & World Report rankings put UMFK in the top tier, ranked
23rd. That ranks UMFK 13th among public colleges in the North and follows
sixth-consecutive years as a top-15 public institution. UMFK first achieved
top-tier college status in the magazine's 2011 rankings.


"These rankings are another demonstration of the quality of the overall
educational experience that UMFK offers to the residents of a northern Maine and
to the entire state," according to UMFK President John Short. "We are more
committed than ever to affordability and student success in an environment that
promotes diversity, inclusion and lifelong learners," he added.


The 2017 rankings also listed UMFK number four among the Regional Colleges in
the North where students graduate with the least debt.


"With our merit and need-based scholarships, comprehensive work-study program,
and emphasis on retention and persistence, we are attempting to work with
students to reduce the amount of college debt that they face on graduation. This
US news ranking demonstrates that we are being successful in moving toward that
goal," said Short.


U.S. News & World Report bases the U.S. ranking on key measures that education
experts have proposed as reliable indicators of academic quality. The indices
include peer assessment; graduation and retention rates; faculty resources;
student selectivity; financial resources; and alumni giving.


The rating system rests on two pillars: quantitative measures that education
experts have proposed as reliable indicators of academic quality, and which are
based on U.S. News' researched view of what matters in education.


The North region includes Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode
Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News

                              921 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 20, 2016 Tuesday

Tabor College Ranks on 2017 U.S. News Best Colleges List

LENGTH: 268  words

DATELINE: New York



 Hillsboro: Tabor College has issued the following news release:



  Tabor College ranks number 41 on the 2017 U.S. News Best Colleges list. Tabor
appears on the organization's rankings for Regional Liberal Arts Colleges -
Midwest.





 "We are thrilled to once again be included on the list from U.S. News," Jules
Glanzer president of Tabor College said. "Our faculty and staff work hard to
make Tabor one of the best institutions for students."



 Tabor's placement at 41 is a repeat of the 2016 rankings for the same category.
This is the 13th year in a row that Tabor has received a Top Tier ranking which
demonstrates a consistency and commitment to long term excellence.



 Rankings by U.S. News and World Report are based on multiple factors in seven
categories: graduation and retention, assessment of excellence, faculty
resources, student selectivity, financial resources, graduation rate performance
and alumni giving.



 Tabor College offers 26 majors and a student faculty ratio of 12 to 1.
Ninety-eight percent of graduates who apply are accepted into medical school and
other graduate programs. In 2015-2016 students at Tabor came from 31 states and
11 countries.



 "Tabor's mission to prepare people for a life of learning, work and service for
Christ and His kingdom is reflected in our inclusion on the 2017 list," Glanzer
said. "We hope our ranking shows prospective students and their families that
Tabor is an institution that easily bridges the gap between education and
career."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              922 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 20, 2016 Tuesday

Tabor College Ranks on 2017 U.S. News Best Colleges List

LENGTH: 268  words

DATELINE: New York



 Hillsboro: Tabor College has issued the following news release:



  Tabor College ranks number 41 on the 2017 U.S. News Best Colleges list. Tabor
appears on the organization's rankings for Regional Liberal Arts Colleges -
Midwest.





 "We are thrilled to once again be included on the list from U.S. News," Jules
Glanzer president of Tabor College said. "Our faculty and staff work hard to
make Tabor one of the best institutions for students."



 Tabor's placement at 41 is a repeat of the 2016 rankings for the same category.
This is the 13th year in a row that Tabor has received a Top Tier ranking which
demonstrates a consistency and commitment to long term excellence.



 Rankings by U.S. News and World Report are based on multiple factors in seven
categories: graduation and retention, assessment of excellence, faculty
resources, student selectivity, financial resources, graduation rate performance
and alumni giving.



 Tabor College offers 26 majors and a student faculty ratio of 12 to 1.
Ninety-eight percent of graduates who apply are accepted into medical school and
other graduate programs. In 2015-2016 students at Tabor came from 31 states and
11 countries.



 "Tabor's mission to prepare people for a life of learning, work and service for
Christ and His kingdom is reflected in our inclusion on the 2017 list," Glanzer
said. "We hope our ranking shows prospective students and their families that
Tabor is an institution that easily bridges the gap between education and
career."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              923 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                             March 13, 2012 Tuesday

Law school rankings: The results are out, but do they really matter?;
US News & World Report released its annual law school rankings Tuesday,
reviewing about 200 schools. The rankings can have a powerful impact on
universities, experts say.

BYLINE: Andrew Mach Contributor

LENGTH: 665 words


US News & World Report released its annual rankings of the country's best law
schools Tuesday.

The list, which includes the top 145 best places in the US to start a career in
law plus about 50 additional unranked schools, also includes specialty rankings
in areas such as environmental law, intellectual property law, and tax law.
Topping this year's list were law schools at Yale, Stanford, Harvard, Columbia,
and the University of Chicago, which were evaluated using 12 quality measures
such as the school's assessment by current lawyers and judges, student LSAT
scores, and bar-exam passage rates.

But do the news magazine's rankings, which some view as the arbiter for
top-notch academia, really play a large role in college admissions?

A 2009 study in the journal Research in Higher Education revealed that the US
News rankings improved the quality of the next year's admissions pool primarily
at institutions ranked in the top 25 or at schools that moved from the second
page of the magazine's rankings to the first page.

Kevin Cary, policy director of Education Sector, an independent think tank
devoted to improving educational policy, argues the ranking system is deeply
flawed because it favors proverbial institutions with an elite status.

"Instead of focusing on the fundamental issues of how well colleges and
universities educate their students and how well they prepare them to be
successful after college," Mr. Cary said in a report, "the magazine's rankings
are almost entirely a function of three factors: fame, wealth, and exclusivity."

When it comes to law schools, law professor Brian Tamanaha writes in his book
"Failing Law Schools" that the US News rankings are among the most powerful
forces driving behavior at law schools today.

In a New York Times review of the book, Stanley Fish, a professor of humanities
and law at Florida International University, writes that this behavior is, at
times, deceptive.

"A law schools dean who knows that the rank of her school will in large part
determine the faculty it can attract, the quality of the applicants, the support
provided by her university and the job opportunities of graduates will be
tempted to fiddle with the numbers by (among other things) reporting high
salaries for graduates when the pool surveyed is a tiny fraction of those who
have the school's degree."

Additionally, the rankings have delineated a host of sad priorities for law
schools, said New York Times reporter David Segal in an interview with the
American Bar Association Journal.

"It doesn't help that law schools are just completely obedient to the set of
standards and jump through any hurdle that is erected by US News," said Mr.
Segal. "This is just a recipe for a bunch of self-interested decisions."

The bottom line, said Robert Morse, editor of US News & World Report, in a note
on the website, is that the rankings are done to provide one tool to help
prospective law school students choose the best school for them.

"We at US News firmly believe the survey has significant value because it allows
us to measure the 'intangibles' of a college that we can't measure through
statistical data," Mr. Morse said. "The Best Law School rankings are not done to
provide law school academics a benchmark to measure their school's progress or
to influence or be an instrument to direct educational policy decisions."

Here are the top 20 law schools, according to the list:

1. Yale University

2. Stanford University

3. Harvard University

4. Columbia University

5. University of Chicago

6. New York University

7. University of California-Berkeley (tie)

7. University of Pennsylvania (tie)

7. University of Virginia (tie)

10. University of Michigan-Ann Arbor

11. Duke University

12. Northwestern University

13. Georgetown University

14. Cornell University

15. University of California-Los Angeles

16. University of Texas-Austin (tie)

16. Vanderbilt University (tie)

18. University of Southern California (Gould)

19. University of Minnesota-Twin Cities

20. George Washington University

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved

                              924 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                           January 13, 2018 Saturday

IWU moves up in 'best values' ranking

BYLINE: Pantagraph Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 169 words


BLOOMINGTON -- Illinois Wesleyan University is ranked 50th among liberal arts
colleges in the latest list of "Best College Values" from Kiplinger's Personal
Finance.

The ranking of 50 is an increase of five places from the previous year's
rankings. IWU also was ranked 97th overall among all colleges and universities.

Kiplinger's rates colleges based on a combination of academic merits and cost of
attendance.

IWU has been included in the list for 11 consecutive years.

The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign was ranked 98th overall. Its
ranking among public colleges was 30th for in-state students and 18th for
out-of-state students.

Illinois State University was not included in the rankings. The last time ISU
was on Kiplinger's list was in December 2014 when it ranked 99th among public
colleges.

The highest ranked school in Illinois was the University of Chicago, 44th
overall and 19th among private universities.

Bradley University in Peoria was No. 215 overall and 65th among private
universities.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2018 The Pantagraph

                              925 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday

Geneseo named to Kiplinger's 'Best College Value' list for 2017

LENGTH: 165  words

DATELINE: New York



 New York: The State University of New York at Geneseo has issued the following
news release:



  Geneseo has been named to Kiplinger's Personal Finance's list of the "Top 300
Best College Values of 2017," ranking 115th in a combined ranking of private
universities, liberal arts colleges, and public colleges. The best value
rankings included data from nearly 1,200 public and private four-year schools.





 Geneseo also ranks 23rd on the list of public colleges for out-of-state
students and 40th among public colleges for in-state students.



 Kiplinger assesses value by measurable standards of academic quality and
affordability. Quality measures include the admission rate, the percentage of
students who return for sophomore year, the student-faculty ratio, and four-year
graduation rate. Cost criteria include sticker price, financial aid, and average
debt at graduation.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              926 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Las Cruces Sun-News (New Mexico)

                            September 4, 2009 Friday

Magazine ranks NMSU 109 out of 258 schools

BYLINE: Sun-News report

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 411 words


LAS CRUCES - A national publication has rated New Mexico State University in its
top 50 percent of universities it examined this year.

Washington Monthly is based in Washington, D.C., and covers politics and social
issues.

It ranked NMSU 109 out of the 258 universities it scored. NMSU ranked higher
than the other two regional universities that made the list, the University of
New Mexico (No. 138) and the University of Texas-El Paso (No. 140).

According to its Web site, Washington Monthly rates schools on "their
contribution to the public good" based on three categories, social mobility,
research, and service.

The magazine examines the success of universities to recruit and graduate
low-income students, its efforts to produce cutting-edge research and doctoral
graduates, and how they encourage students to take part in public service.

It considers a number of factors in assembling its rankings, including the
number of students receiving Pell Grants, graduation rates, amount of money
spent on research, faculty awards and recognition, and the number of doctoral
degrees awarded.

NMSU's highest rankings came for its ROTC program and for the amount of money
the university directs toward research efforts.

Like U.S. News and World Report, one of the more well-known of the annual
college rankings lists, Washington Monthly has released an annual report ranking
the top universities in all 50 states. But Washington Monthly claims to focus
more on public universities, women's colleges, and other universities overlooked
by U.S. News and World Report's rankings.

The magazine seeks "to provide a measure of not just what colleges can do for
you, but what colleges are doing for the country."

In a statement released Friday by NMSU, the university's Executive Vice
President and Provost Waded Cruzado said the recognition confirms NMSU's
commitment to the state.

"As a land-grant university, it is our mission to make a quality education
accessible to people throughout the state, as well as to conduct research and
provide outreach to benefit those who need it. This ranking highlights the
superior job done by our faculty, students and staff," Cruzado said.

Last month, Forbes.com ranked NMSU 193 out of 600 colleges, based on student
satisfaction, employment success after graduation, the cost of tuition, and the
likelihood of graduating on time.

On the Web

To view the rankings, visit http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/college_guide/
rankings/national_university_rank.php

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2009 Las Cruces Sun-News, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved

                              927 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             June 21, 2007 Thursday
                            0 South Pinellas Edition

ECKERD SAYS NO TO RANK SYSTEM

BYLINE: SHANNON COLAVECCHIO-VAN SICKLER, Times Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 566 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG



HIGHLIGHT: The college's president says U.S. News uses flawed methods, so the
school won't take part.


Eckerd College said Wednesday it will stop participating in U.S. News & World
Report's annual college rankings, the go-to guide for many campus-bound students
and their families.

Eckerd president Donald R. Eastman III is among dozens of university leaders
forgoing U.S. News, after complaining for years that the magazine's ranking
methods are flawed.

U.S. News looks at factors like graduation rates and student-faculty ratios, but
gives considerable weight to a college's selectivity and its reputation among
its peers. That, critics say, swings the best rankings to Ivy Leagues and
exclusive, wealthy private colleges.

"This is an exercise based on no scientific validity, just to sell magazines,"
said Eastman, whose college this year fell into U.S. News' unranked third tier.

The Annapolis Group, representing about 120 independent liberal arts colleges,
decided this week to develop its own data system for families researching
colleges. Most of the 70 or so presidents at the meeting, Eastman included, also
said they will no longer participate in the annual U.S. News ranking exercise.

"The idea that one can measure a college experience and educational experience
with a number on a scale from one to 300 or one to 3,000 is one of the most
absurd notions we have," said Christopher Nelson, Annapolis Group chairman and
president of St. John's College in Maryland.

Nelson said the Annapolis Group wants to create a searchable online database
with information on tuition and financial aid, degrees offered, class sizes,
retention rates, campus life, demographics, sports and religion. The goal is to
help people find the college that suits them.

Rollins president Lewis Duncan, one of the dissenters at the Annapolis Group's
meeting, said U.S. News' broad circulation makes it a good starting point for
students and parents.

Rollins was ranked the No. 1 Southern master's-level university both this year
and last.

U.S. News each year asks colleges to fill out lengthy questionnaires covering
things like retention rates, selectivity and faculty resources. But the greatest
weight for a college's rank, 25 percent, is based on a "peer assessment survey"
in which university leaders evaluate each others' institutions.

"I've always thought it was nonsense, and I've never filled it out," said
Eastman, a former administrator at the University of Georgia. "It becomes, 'Oh,
well, I've heard Harvard is pretty good.' "

In the spring, 24 liberal arts college presidents signed a letter blasting U.S.
News for misleading data that "degrade" the college search process. Last month,
the group sent letters urging hundreds of their colleagues across the country to
stop filling out the U.S. News peer evaluation survey.

The movement comes as the federal government considers creating its own
searchable database of college data that would allow users to come up with
personal rankings based on interests and priorities.

Brian Kelly, editor of U.S. News, said through a spokeswoman that he welcomes
any effort to get more information out to the public.

He stressed that the private colleges' lack of participation will not hinder the
annual college issue because most of the information used to is available
publicly.

The 2008 edition hits the shelves in mid August.

Staff writer Joseph Schwartz and researcher John Martin contributed to this
report. Shannon Colavecchio-Van Sickler can be reached at (813) 226-3403.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eckerd president Donald R. Eastman III said the rankings have no
scientific validity.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              928 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Waikato Times (Hamilton, New Zealand)

                              May 15, 2007 Tuesday

Flawed ranking harms varsity

BYLINE: Suddaby Reon

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 480 words


A controversial national ranking system, which since 2003 has rated Waikato
University in fifth spot of the country's tertiary institutions, is flawed --
Waikato should be ranked third.

A Waikato Times investigation has revealed other universities have climbed above
Waikato University in the Government's research rankings because unflattering
scores have not been counted in their totals.

Though the figures would not alter funding of the university, they would likely
alter public perception, making it attractive to more students and therefore
better off commercially.

Waikato officials confirmed the accuracy of the Times' investigations but would
not damn the system, though it is known they are bitter.

However, Waikato Chamber of Commerce chief executive Ray Lewis has spelt out
what a higher ranking would mean. "It would offer a very big boost for the
profile for the city as a tertiary destination," he said.

"From what I gather . . . more and more students are more discerning. They do
swot up on the various places to go."

A higher ranking would draw more students and "that kind of thing could flow on
to greater commercial growth". Waikato has struggled financially in the past
couple of years, being forced to shed dozens of staff.

The Government's Performance Based Research Fund (PBRF) rankings, based on the
performance of each university's researchers, were released last week.

Waikato was fifth with a research quality score of 3.73. However, included in
its statistics were the rankings of staff from its college of education, which
does not have a high research component.

Otago topped the chart with a score of 4.22, followed by Auckland (4.19),
Canterbury (4.10), and Victoria (3.83).

However, the results from their college of education staff, as equally as
low-scoring in research as Waikato's, have not been included in the total --
they are recorded separately. That's because the universities ranked above
Waikato merged with their regional colleges of education in the past four years.
Waikato's two institutions merged in the late 1990s.

If, like Waikato, the college of education figures were added into the final
scores, Otago would hold first place, but drop to a score of 3.99 and Auckland
would stay in second with a score of 3.85. However, Canterbury (3.52) and
Victoria (3.42) would drop below Waikato, which would stay at 3.73.

Waikato University Vice-Chancellor Professor Roy Crawford said the "anomaly"
caused difficulties for the university and he was in discussions with the
Tertiary Education Commission.

"It would be great if the New Zealand public and the international community
were aware of the issue," he said.

---------------------

PULLING RANK

Research rankings now

1. Otago 4.22

2. Auckland 4.19

3. Canterbuy 4.10

4. Victoria 3.83

5. Waikato 3.73

Rankings as they should be

1. Otago 3.99

2. Auckland 3.85

3. Waikato 3.73

4. Canterbury 3.52

5. Victoria 3.42

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Fairfax New Zealand Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              929 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 10, 2013 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Howard U. falls to 142nd in U.S. News rankings

BYLINE: Nick Anderson

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 748 words


Howard falls 22 spots in new U.S. News college rankingsWashington school drops
to 142nd on list of top national universities; Princeton No. 1, Harvard No. 2.

Howard University, once among the top 100 on the U.S. News and World Report list
of national universities, has fallen to 142nd in the magazine's latest rankings
published Tuesday.

The historically black university in Northwest Washington, which has weathered a
recent period of turbulence, including a public split on the board of trustees
over the school's leadership and finances, was ranked 120th by U.S. News a year
ago and 96th four years ago. Howard's drop from 2012 to 2013 was the
second-largest found in an analysis of the top 200 schools on the U.S. News
national universities list.

"While I am concerned and we will look closely at the data, the U.S. News and
World Report rankings represent one indicator of academic quality," Howard
President Sidney A. Ribeau, in office since 2008, said in a statement. He said
several other indicators "speak to the exceptional quality of a Howard
education," including rising graduation rates and strong performances in the
fields of medicine, dentistry, science and engineering.

The U.S. News rankings are probably the most closely tracked index of prestige
in higher education, but they are also controversial. Critics say the rankings
are based on flawed data and use a subjective formula that gives too much weight
to a college's selectivity and reputation.

U.S. News tweaked its formula this year, giving more emphasis to college
graduation rates and less to the high school class standing of incoming
students. The magazine's methodology also factors in surveys of academic
reputation and data on retention rates, college entrance test scores, financial
resources and faculty resources, among other things.

On Aug. 22, President Obama said the federal government will aim, by autumn
2015, to rate colleges and universities on value, using such metrics as average
tuition and loan debt, the share of low-income students they enroll, and
graduates' earnings.

On the U.S. News list, there were few major changes in the upper tier. Princeton
ranked first and Harvard second, a year after they tied for first. Schools that
made major moves up were Penn State University, jumping nine places to 37th, and
Boston University, jumping 10 places to 41st.

Among schools in and near the Washington region, Johns Hopkins University
(12th), Georgetown University (20th), the University of Virginia (23rd) and the
College of William and Mary (32nd) each moved up one place.

"While these rankings never capture the true excellence of William & Mary, it's
always satisfying to see them move in a positive direction, as they did this
time around," said the college's president, Taylor Reveley.

George Washington University, which had ranked 51st a year ago, was removed from
that ranking in November after the revelation that it had overstated the high
school credentials of its incoming freshmen. On Tuesday, it returned to the list
at No. 52.

The University of Maryland at College Park, which ranked 58th last year, fell to
62nd. Virginia Tech (69th), American University (75th) and the University of
Maryland Baltimore County (158th) - ranked the top "up-and-comer" school - all
had better rankings this year. Catholic University dropped one place, to 121st,
and George Mason University two places, to 141st.

"We went up a couple spots," said Cornelius "Neil" Kerwin, president of
American. "It's hard to tell whether that's a statistical artifact or something
real." But he said he was pleased to see the university show upward movement
over several years.

Embargoed copies of the rankings were closely scrutinized Monday. "Listen, this
is a cultural phenomenon," Kerwin said. "Anybody who gets it will pay attention
to it."

It was not immediately clear why Howard fell 22 places this year, to 142nd.
Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey at Newark, had the largest drop in
the top 200, falling 27 places into a tie with Howard.

Howard ranked 115th in fall 2011 and 104th in fall 2010. From 2004 to 2009, it
ranked in the top 100 every year but one.

In a letter made public in June, the vice chairwoman of the board of trustees,
Renee Higginbotham-Brooks, said the university "is in genuine trouble," citing
financial challenges and management issues. Board Chairman Addison Barry Rand
replied that Howard remains "academically, financially and operationally
strong."

nick.anderson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2013 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved

                              930 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 2, 2017 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Area colleges crack school rankings

BYLINE: Nick Anderson

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 822 words


Washington Monthly list focuses on how well schools meet 'public goals'

Virginia Tech and Montgomery College are well-regarded for what they do. The
public research university in Blacksburg, Va., features high-powered engineering
and technology programs, while the community college in Maryland draws students
from all stages of life into higher education.

But they are not typically known for cracking the top 20 in national college
rankings. This week, both schools did just that.

Washington Monthly, a wonkish policy magazine with an annual analysis of what
colleges do for the public good, ranked Virginia Tech 19th on its 2017 list of
national universities and Montgomery College ninth on its list of best two-year
colleges for adult learners.

The Monthly's lists were designed as an offbeat alternative to the U.S. News &
World Report college rankings, considered the most prominent in the field. Other
publications, such as Money, Forbes and the Wall Street Journal, have also
jumped into the rankings business in recent years, targeting consumers who are
struggling to make sense of a vast higher education market with college costs
ranging as high as $70,000 a year.

Too often, the Monthly says, rankings focus on factors such as selectivity,
wealth and prestige, and not enough on what taxpayers get in return for tens of
billions of dollars spent on student aid.

"What do we get for our investment?" Paul Glastris, editor in chief of the
Monthly, asked. "These are publicly funded institutions, and the public has a
right to know: Are they meeting public goals?"

The Monthly defines those goals as driving social mobility (especially in
recruiting and graduating students from low-income families), producing
top-level research and encouraging public service. Its formula for national
universities includes share of students who qualify for federal Pell grants;
participation in Peace Corps and ROTC programs; annual research spending; loan
repayment rates; post-college earnings data; and the number of science and
engineering doctorates awarded.

Some results in the rankings released Monday were predictable. Stanford
University topped the list, followed by Harvard University and the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. All three are perennially in the U.S. News' top 10.

Some were less predictable. Georgetown University ranked fifth under the Monthly
formula and Virginia Tech 19th. Last fall, U.S. News ranked Georgetown 20th and
Tech 74th.

Virginia Tech landed just behind the University of Florida (18th) and just ahead
of the University of California at Irvine (20th). It also beat the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill (23rd), Cornell (32nd) and the University of
Virginia (36th).

Thanassis Rikakis, provost of Virginia Tech, said Thursday that he had been
unaware of the ranking until an inquiry from The Washington Post. He sought to
play down its significance. "Different institutions are good at different
things," he said. "The idea is not one size fits all."

But he said the Monthly formula plays to Virginia Tech's strengths. Founded in
1872 as a land-grant school, the 33,000-student university has always been
devoted to a public mission, Rikakis said. "We care about research that has
societal impact," he said. "We care about our students putting the social good
above other things." In the future, Rikakis said, he wants Virginia Tech to
become more economically diverse. About 16 percent of its undergraduates qualify
for Pell grants. He said that share should be "way higher."

On the Monthly's two-year college list, which is something of a rarity in
rankings, factors measured include tuition and fees, the strength of transfer
policies, the share of students over age 25, average post-college earnings, and
quality of services for adult students.

The top-ranked schools were Weber State University in Utah and Utah Valley
University, in that order. Both are four-year schools with a high number of
two-year students. Foothill College in California ranked third. Howard Community
College in Maryland ranked seventh, the second year in a row it made the top 10.
Montgomery College ranked ninth. Last year, it did not make the top 100.

"It's nice to be on the map," said George Payne, a vice president and provost at
Montgomery College. Publicity always helps for a sector of higher education long
overshadowed.

"There is an untold story about your local community college," he said. "They're
affordable, practical and convenient."

Based in Rockville, the college has about 23,900 undergraduates and many
thousands more students who are taking classes but not seeking degrees. The
average age for credit-seeking students is about 25 or 26, Payne said, and more
than 12 percent of all students are 50 or older.

"Many have degrees already, and they're coming back for a wide variety of
reasons," he said. "The idea of a single dose of education for one's lifetime is
clearly gone."

nick.anderson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved

                              931 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                           September 15, 2015 Tuesday

Irish universities slip slightly in international rankings

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 450 words


Trinity College Dublin (TCD) remains in the top 100 of the QS World University
Ranking, but has slipped from 71st last year to 78th.

University College Dublin and University College Cork (UCC) remain in the top
300, but fell from 139th to 154th and from 230th to 233rd, respectively.

NUI Galway

NUI Galway improved its ranking from 280 to 271, according to today s release
from QS, whose chart is topped again by US and British colleges.

Massachusetts Institute of Technology keeps its number one slot, pipping
neighbours Harvard University, University of Cambridge in the UK, and two more
US institutions, Stanford University and California Institute of Technology.

Outside the top 300, other Irish institutions have also increased their rankings
, which are based on a combination of measurements that include revisions to
recognise the large volume of academic journal citations by researchers in life
sciences and natural sciences.

Dublin City University

Dublin City University (DCU) is up 13 places to 353rd, while University of
Limerick improved on its placement between 501 and 550 a year ago into the top
480 today. Maynooth University moved up from the 601-to-650 rank into the
551-to-600 band, a reversal of the position for Dublin Institute of Technology.

TCD dean of research, Prof John Boland, said high scores in particular subject
areas, and rising academic reputation were a real testament of the quality of
education for its students. However, he said cuts in funding, while global
competitors   particularly in Asia and some European countries   make increased
investment, continue to directly impact on the rankings.

The continued reduction in Government investment in Irish universities has
impacted negatively on the international standing of our universities and our
ability to compete in a global arena,  he said.

DCU president Prof Brian MacCraith said improved research output scores were the
primary driver in its improved ranking. He said a doubling of citations of DCU
research since 2010, and a 58% rise in the number of its research publications
captured in the ranking, highlight the success of its strategy to become a
world-leading young research-intensive university.

University College Cork

UCC president Dr Michael Murphy said it was remarkable that Irish universities
were in the top 3% to 4% of 16,000 globally, despite the challenges of eight
years of budget cuts, worsening student-staff ratios, and rising global
competition.

The rankings use criteria under the headings of research, teaching,
employability and internationalisation but QS said changes to the weightings
mean fairer recognition this year for colleges with excellence in
non-research-intensive academic areas.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              932 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            September 5, 2011 Monday

Most Irish universities fall further in world ranking

BYLINE: SEÁN FLYNN, Education Editor

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 620 words


TCD AND UCD have continued to slide down the world university rankings in a
trend which will concern Government, business and heads of colleges.

The latest QS rankings   published this morning   show a substantial drop in
ranking for most Irish universities.

TCD drops down 13 places to 65; UCD is down 20 places from 114 to 134. NUI
Galway suffers the most dramatic fall, down 66 places to 298. UCC bucked the
trend, up marginally from 184 to 181.

The new international league table is a serious blow to the Irish university
sector. Two years ago TCD was in the elite top 50 colleges, while UCD was in the
top 100. Over the past two years both of Ireland s leading colleges have lost
significant ground.

The fall in Irish rankings was widely expected as the university sector has
struggled to cope with a 6 per cent decline in employment and a funding crisis.

Last night John O Leary, editor of the  Times Good University Guide, said:  This
has resulted in lower scores for student/faculty ratio. Academics have also
ranked Irish universities lower this year; there is a decline in Ireland s
academic reputation.

QS only gives detailed scores for its top 300 ranked universities. Among other
leading Irish colleges Dublin City University is ranked at 326; Dublin Institute
of Technology 401-450; University of Limerick 451-500 and NUI Maynooth 501-550.

The downward movement in rankings for Ireland s universities is certain to
reopen the debate about a sustainable funding base for higher education. It will
also fuel speculation about the possible return of third-level fees.

Last week Prof Paddy Prendergast, the new TCD provost, said the college s budget
was only 66 per cent of that available to its counterparts in the UK. The
quality of Irish higher education faced a  speedy and inexorable decline unless
the funding crisis is addressed by introducing fees for those who can afford to
pay  .

The new rankings are the latest blow to Ireland s international reputation in
education. The most recent OECD/Pisa study in December charted a dramatic fall
in literacy standards among Irish teenagers. Irish 15-year-olds are also ranked
as average or below in maths and science.

In all, over 33,000 global academics and 16,000 graduate employers were surveyed
by QS in the largest survey of its kind. Cambridge is ranked as the leading
university in the world for the second consecutive year ahead of Harvard, MIT
and Yale .

The QS (Quacquarelli Symonds) rankings are one of the most widely referenced
indexes of global university performance. The rankings are based on four
pillars: research, teaching, employability and internationalisation.

A striking trend in this year s league table is the improved performance of
Asian colleges; of the 25 Asian universities in the top 300, 21 are moving
upward.

DCU president, Prof Brian MacCraith, said:  DCU is delighted to have bucked the
downward trend and, in fact, to have exhibited the largest increase in ranking
of all the Irish universities. This is all the more significant when viewed
against the backdrop of rapidly decreasing exchequer funding which directly and
negatively impacts on some of the key indicators used in the QS ranking
methodology. As a young and dynamic university, I am confident that we can
continue our upward movement by continuing to aspire to excellence in research
and teaching but the rate of improvement will, of course, be dependent on
appropriate levels of Government support.

WORLD RANKING

Figures for 2011 with 2010 and 2009 in brackets

TCD 65 (52, 43)

UCD 134 (114, 89)

NUI Galway 298 (232, 243)

UCC 181 (184, 207)

DCU 326 (330, 279)

DIT 401-450 (395, 326)

UL 451-500 (451-500, 401-450)

NUI Maynooth 501-550, (401, 437)

*Source QS World University Rankings

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              933 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

KSC Ranked Among Top Regional Universities by U.S. News and World Report

LENGTH: 149  words

DATELINE: Keene


Keene State College has issued the following news release:

/
    Home
    /
    News & Events
    /
    News
    /

KSC Ranked Among Top Regional Universities by U.S. News and World Report
September 10, 2013

Keene State College today announces that the College has again been listed as
one of the top schools in the North as part of U.S. News and World Report's
annual rankings. Keene State College ranked 87th out of 135 in the tier one list
of Regional Universities in the North in the 2014 edition of Best Colleges.
Keene State College was ranked above four other New Hampshire regional
universities.

The publication considered peer assessments, graduation and retention rates,
faculty resources, student selectivity, financial resources and alumni giving to
determine the rankings. For the full rankings, go to www.usnews.com/colleges.

For more information please visit: http://www.keene.edu.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              934 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          November 15, 2017 Wednesday

BRIEF: Alabama football: Crimson Tide rises to No. 1 in College Football Playoff
rankings

BYLINE: Chandler Rome, The Anniston Star, Ala.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 191 words


Nov. 15--TUSCALOOSA -- Alabama is back on top.

The Crimson Tide was No. 1 in the third installment of the College Football
Playoff rankings, it was revealed Tuesday night, three days after it toppled
Mississippi State 31-24 and Auburn thrashed former No. 1 Georgia 40-17.

It's the 11th week in which the Crimson Tide's been ranked No. 1 in the CFP
rankings, now in their fourth season.

Miami (FL) rose to No. 3 after defeating Notre Dame -- formerly No. 3 -- on
Saturday. Clemson was No. 2 and Oklahoma was No. 4.

The Irish fell to No. 8 while Georgia checked in at No. 7.

Auburn rose four spots to No. 6 after its victory against the Bulldogs.

The Tigers host the Crimson Tide at 2:30 p.m. next Saturday in a winner-take-all
Iron Bowl to determine the SEC Western Division title.

Contact Anniston Star Sports Writer Chandler Rome at crome@annistonstar.com
Twitter: @Chandler_Rome. Check facebook.com/annistonstar for Rome's Alabama
practice reports and live streaming of Nick Saban news conferences.

___ (c)2017 The Anniston Star (Anniston, Ala.) Visit The Anniston Star
(Anniston, Ala.) at www.annistonstar.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20171115-AO-BRF-Alabama-football-Crimson-Tide-rises-to-No-1-in-College
-Football-Playoff-rankings-1115-20171115

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AO


                        Copyright 2017 The Anniston Star

                              935 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              July 10, 2017 Monday

MONEY MAGAZINE PUTS 5 CUNY COLLEGES IN TOP QUARTER OF NATION'S "BEST COLLEGES
FOR YOUR MONEY" - BARUCH RANKED SECOND

LENGTH: 412  words

DATELINE: New York



New York: City University of New York (CUNY) System has issued the following
news release:
Money magazine's "Best Colleges for Your Money 2017" puts five CUNY colleges in
the top quarter of 711 schools, ranking Baruch College second overall, just
after Princeton University and first in the country among the "Best Public
Colleges." Also among the nation's leaders, according to the assessment, were
CUNY's Brooklyn College, Queens College, Hunter College and John Jay College of
Criminal Justice.


"College rankings can vary in usefulness, but Money's magazine's methodology is
refreshing and very practical because of its focus on student success, not just
inputs.  It's not surprising that Money magazine's assessment confirms what so
many have consistently found," Chancellor James B. Milliken said. "CUNY schools
offer high-quality education, great access and affordability, and a tremendous
boost up the social ladder. CUNY has become America's premier urban university
by providing generations of low- and middle-income students the means to achieve
their aspirations."
Money magazine ranks colleges based on 27 measures of educational quality,
affordability and alumni success. A key factor in the rankings was the social
mobility rate developed by Stanford University professor Raj Chetty. That
study's rankings measured how effective each college was at propelling
low-income students into the middle class and beyond over the past 20 years. As
Money magazine explains, that critical assessment ends up "pointing to colleges
that help students achieve the American dream."
The City University of New York is the nation's leading urban public university.
Founded in 1847, the University comprises 24 institutions: 11 senior colleges,
seven community colleges, the William E. Macaulay Honors College at CUNY, the
CUNY Graduate School and University Center, the CUNY Graduate School of
Journalism, the CUNY School of Law, the CUNY School of Professional Studies and
the CUNY Graduate School of Public Health and Health Policy. The University
serves more than 272,000 degree-seeking students.  College Now, the University's
academic enrichment program, is offered at CUNY campuses and more than 400 high
schools throughout the five boroughs. The University offers online baccalaureate
and master's degrees through the School of Professional Studies.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              936 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Daily Iowegian (Centerville, Iowa)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 8, 2014 Thursday

Falcons ranked in top-20

BYLINE: Kyle Ocker, Daily Iowegian, Centerville, Iowa

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 265 words


May 08--The Indian Hills Falcons baseball program is now ranked in the top-20
nationally.

The Falcons finished the regular season over the weekend with a 38-15 record,
claiming the first seed for the upcoming Region XI tournament.

It's the first time the Falcons have been in the National Junior College
Athletic Association's baseball rankings, which rank the top-20 baseball teams
in Division I each week.

The Falcons earned a 20th place ranking in the poll released Tuesday.

At the top of the poll is Chattahoochee Valley Community College, the unanimous
first place in this week's poll.

Iowa Western Community College, the Falcons' regional foe, comes in at seventh
in the rankings.

NJCAA baseball national poll

May 6, 2014

Rank, College, Record

1, Chattahoochee Valley, 43-9

2, Chipola College, 36-10

3, Delgado, 37-10

4, Connors State, 44-11

5, Spartanburg Methodist, 40-14

6, Grayson College 40-12

7, Iowa Western, 45-10

8, Georgia Perimeter College, 40-12

9, Middle Georgia State, 36-13

10, Johnson County, 44-11

11, Alvin, 40-14

12, Columbia State, 41-11

13, Gulf Coast State, 37-12

14, Central Arizona, 42-16

15, Wabash Valley, 42-11

16, Walters State, 43-18

17, Crowder, 39-14

18, Darton State, 39-16

19, Hutchinson, 42-15

20, Indian Hills, 38-15

Others receiving votes -- St. Johns River State, Polk State, Potomac State
Colleve of WVU, Howard College, Northeastern Oklahoma A&M College, Miami Dade
College.

Dropped from rankings -- Polk State (20).

___ (c)2014 the Daily Iowegian (Centerville, Iowa) Visit the Daily Iowegian
(Centerville, Iowa) at www.dailyiowegian.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140508-IA-Falcons-ranked-in-top-20-0508-20140508

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                         Copyright 2014 Daily Iowegian

                              937 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                US Official News

                            November 13, 2015 Friday

Saints hold at No. 6 in region

LENGTH: 200 words

DATELINE: Lahore



    Augustine: Flagler College has issued the following news release:



  The Flagler College men's soccer team held steady at No. 6 in the latest NCAA
Division II Southeast Region ranking which was released this afternoon.





 Flagler (8-4-1 overall) has a 7-4-1 record in the ranking as Monday's 2-1 win
over the University of North Carolina Pembroke is not take into effect. The
Saints are riding a four-match winning streak and will play their regular season
finale Saturday (Oct. 31) at Rollins College at 7 p.m.



 Pfeiffer University (15-0-0) sits atop the rankings. They are followed by
Lander University (11-2-0) who recently knocked off the top-ranked team in the
region from last week, Young Harris College. Carson-Newman College (12-2-1) is
third and Young Harris (11-3-0) dropped to No. 4. Wingate University (12-2-2)
checks in before Flagler at No. 5. Lincoln Memorial University (9-3-1) and
Limestone College (9-3-0) rounds out the ranking at Nos. 7 and 8.



 The next ranking period, Nov. 4, will be the last ranking before the national
tournament field will be selected.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright2015Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              938 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Deming Headlight (New Mexico)

                            October 12, 2015 Monday
                                   1 Edition

NMSU improves college ranking

BYLINE: By, Tiffany Acosta

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 300 words


LAS CRUCES - On the list of 650 institutions, NMSU ranked 417th overall and 92nd
in the South, which are improvements of 25 spots nationally and 12 spots
regionally from a year ago.

For the eighth year, Forbes and Washington, D.C.-based Center for College
Affordability and Productivity joined to create a return on investment-focused
ranking structure. Forbes and CCAP utilized five weighted categories to
calculate the rankings: student satisfaction (25 percent), post-graduate success
(32.5 percent), student debt (25 percent), four-year graduation rate (7.5
percent) and academic success (10 percent). For more details on ranking
methodology, visit http://www.forbes.com/top-colleges/.

Additionally this year, NMSU was named as a top tier university on the U.S. News
& World Report Best Colleges for 2016 National Universities rankings.

NMSU was listed at 114th on the Washington Monthly National Universities
rankings for 2015. Washington Monthly ranks institutions based on their
contribution to the public good in three broad categories: social mobility,
which includes recruiting and graduating low-income students, research and
service.

In a Brookings Institute report, NMSU ranked in the top 10 percent for
value-added mid-career salary. NMSU is listed at 89th of 863 institutions for
value added mid-career earnings. Value added is the difference between a
college's predicted and actual student economic outcomes, as defined in the
report.

In January, NMSU received a 2015 Community Engagement Classification from the
Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching for its institutional
commitment to serving communities across New Mexico. NMSU is the only
institution in the state and is one of 361 colleges and universities in the
country to carry the Community Engagement Classification.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dnm


                        Copyright 2015 Deming Headlight
                              All Rights Reserved

                              939 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Qatar Tribune

                            November 1, 2016 Tuesday

HBKU hosts University Ranking Forum for higher education community

LENGTH: 387  words


Tribune News Network
Doha
HAMAD Bin Khalifa University held a University Ranking Forum on October 25 and
26, bringing together individuals from universities across Qatar to learn more
about higher education assessment metrics for various ranking systems.


The event featured presentations by well-known global academic information
providers Times Higher Education, Round University Ranking, QS and Elsevier.
It was attended by representatives from the Higher Education Institute at the
Ministry of Education and Higher Education; Qatar Foundation for Education,
Science and Community Development; the Community College of Qatar; the Doha
Institute for Graduate Studies; Georgetown University in Qatar; Northwestern
University in Qatar; the Police College; Texas A&M at Qatar; as well as faculty,
researchers, and leadership from across HBKU's colleges and research institutes.

Dr Ahmad M Hasnah, President of HBKU, said:"HBKU seeks to not only add value to
the academic landscape in Qatar through its innovative programmes and research,
but also play an important role in topics that benefit the wider education
community.
"The University Ranking Forum gave academic leaders from across Qatar the
opportunity to interact with representatives of major global university ranking
organisations to gain valuable insights into the significant criteria by which
universities are included in rankings. This is to ensure that we acknowledge the
significant advances being made in the higher education sector in Qatar and that
these advances are reflected regionally and internationally."
Dr Mounir Hamdi, Dean of HBKU's College of Science and Engineering, added:"The
forum provided a useful opportunity to hear about data collection methodologies
and metrics used by the various university ranking organisations and gave
attendees a valuable insight into how specific academic and research performance
indicators impact a university's rankings."
Presentations and discussions led by the providers and publishers of global
higher education content targeted issues faced by universities in the region and
offered those in attendance with background information on reputational rankings
. Participants were given the opportunity to network with the representatives
and also take a tour of HBKU's buildings and the Qatar Foundation Visitor
Center.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 25


                         Copyright 2016 Qatar Tribune.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              940 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 6, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY ESPN Top 25 Coaches' Poll;
College men's basketball

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 977 words


Poll taken before Monday's games;

times p.m. Eastern

1. Pittsburgh (14-0)

Points: 774 (30 first-place votes). Previous ranking: 3. Upcoming game: Sunday
vs. St. John's. Last week: Beat Rutgers 78-72, beat then-No. 8 Georgetown 70-54.

2. Duke (12-1)

Points: 714. Previous ranking: 5. Upcoming games: Wednesday vs. Davidson (ESPN,
7), Saturday at Florida State (ESPN, 2). Last week: Beat Loyola (Md.) 92-51,
beat Virginia Tech 69-44.

3. North Carolina (13-1)

Points: 707 (1). Previous ranking: 1. Upcoming games: Wednesday vs. College of
Charleston, Sunday at No. 4 Wake Forest (FSN, 8). Last week: Beat Nevada 84-61,
lost to then-unranked Boston College 85-78.

4. Wake Forest (13-0)

Points: 687. Previous ranking: 6. Upcoming game: Sunday vs. No. 3 North Carolina
(FSN, 8). Last week: Beat Radford 83-61, beat Brigham Young 94-87.

5. Connecticut (12-1)

Points: 630. Previous ranking: 2. Upcoming games: Tonight at No. 22 West
Virginia (ESPNU, 7), Saturday at Cincinnati. Last week: Lost to then-No. 8
Georgetown 74-63, beat Rutgers 80-49.

6. Oklahoma (14-1)

Points: 593. Previous ranking: 4. Monday's result:  Beat Maryland-Eastern Shore
100-64. Upcoming games: Saturday at Kansas State, Monday vs. No. 7 Texas (ESPN,
9). Last week: Lost to Arkansas 96-88, beat Coppin State 93-62.

7. (tie) Texas (11-2)

Points: 546. Previous ranking: 7. Upcoming games: Tonight at Arkansas (ESPN2,
9), Saturday vs. Iowa State,  Monday at No. 6 Oklahoma (ESPN, 9). Last week:
Beat Appalachian State 78-43.

7. (tie) UCLA (12-2)

Points: 546. Previous ranking: 9. Upcoming game: Sunday at Southern California
(FSN, 10:30). Last week: Beat Oregon State 69-46, beat Oregon 83-74.

9. Syracuse (14-1)

Points: 526. Previous ranking: 11 (tie). Upcoming games: Wednesday vs. DePaul,
Saturday at Rutgers. Last week: Beat Seton Hall 100-76, beat South Florida
59-54.

10. Georgetown (10-3)

Points: 506. Previous ranking: 8. Monday's result: Lost to No. 13 Notre Dame
73-67. Upcoming game: Saturday vs. Providence (ESPNU, 1). Last week: Beat
then-No. 2 Connecticut 74-63, lost to then-No. 3 Pittsburgh 70-54.

11. Clemson (14-0)

Points: 480. Previous ranking: 16. Upcoming games: Tonight vs. Alabama, Saturday
vs. North Carolina State. Last week: Beat South Carolina 98-87, beat East
Carolina 79-66.

12. Michigan State (11-2)

Points: 452. Previous ranking: 15. Upcoming games: Tonight vs. Ohio State
(ESPN2, 7), Saturday vs. Kansas (CBS, 1). Last week: Beat then-No. 21 Minnesota
70-58, beat Northwestern 77-66.

13. Notre Dame (11-3)

Points: 277. Previous ranking: 10. Monday's result:  Beat No. 10 Georgetown
73-67. Upcoming games: Saturday vs. Seton Hall,  Monday at No. 21 Louisville
(ESPN, 7). Last week: Beat DePaul 92-82, lost to St. John's 71-65.

14. Purdue (11-3)

Points: 261. Previous ranking: 11 (tie). Upcoming games: Tonight at Penn State,
Sunday vs. Wisconsin (CBS, 1:30). Last week: Lost to Illinois 71-67 OT.

15. Marquette (13-2)

Points: 251. Previous ranking: 25. Upcoming games: Wednesday at Rutgers,
Saturday vs. No. 22 West Virginia. Last week: Beat then-No. 13 Villanova 79-72,
beat Cincinnati 84-50.

16. Arizona State (12-2)

Points: 238. Previous ranking: 14. Upcoming games: Thursday vs. Oregon State
(FSN, 10:30), Saturday vs. Oregon (FSN, 2). Last week: Beat Central Connecticut
State 84-47, beat Stanford 90-60, lost to California 81-71.

17. Villanova (12-2)

Points: 225. Previous ranking: 13. Upcoming games: Tonight at Seton Hall,
Saturday vs. No. 21 Louisville (ESPN, noon). Last week: Beat Temple 62-45, lost
to then-No. 25 Marquette 79-72.

18. Xavier (11-2)

Points: 217. Previous ranking: 22. Upcoming games: Thursday vs. Saint Louis (CBS
College Sports, 8), Sunday at Fordham. Last week: Beat Robert Morris 78-57, beat
Virginia 84-70.

19. Minnesota (13-1)

Points: 183. Previous ranking: 21. Upcoming games: Thursday at Iowa (ESPN2, 7),
Sunday vs. Penn State. Last week: Lost to then-No. 15 Michigan State 70-58, beat
then-No. 23 Ohio State 68-59.

20. Butler (12-1)

Points: 147. Previous ranking: not ranked. Upcoming games: Thursday vs. Wright
State, Saturday vs. Detroit. Last week: Beat Alabama-Birmingham 72-68, beat
Valparaiso 75-62.

21. Louisville (9-3)

Points: 136. Previous ranking: 18 (tie). Upcoming games: Wednesday at South
Florida (ESPN2, 7), Saturday at No. 17 Villanova (ESPN, noon),  Monday vs. No.
13 Notre Dame (ESPN, 7). Last week: Lost to UNLV 56-55, beat Kentucky 74-71.

22. West Virginia (11-2)

Points: 132. Previous ranking: not ranked. Upcoming games: Tonight vs. No. 5
Connecticut (ESPNU, 7), Saturday at No. 15 Marquette. Last week: Beat Seton Hall
92-66.

23. Baylor (12-2)

Points: 98. Previous ranking: 20. Upcoming game: Saturday vs. Texas Tech. Last
week: Beat Portland State 79-66, beat Jackson State 113-78, lost to South
Carolina 85-84.

24. Boston College (13-2)

Points: 90. Previous ranking: not ranked. Upcoming games: Wednesday vs. Harvard,
Saturday vs. Miami (Fla.) (ESPNU, 7). Last week: Beat Sacred Heart 89-76, beat
then-No. 1 North Carolina 85-78.

25. Tennessee (9-3)

Points: 85. Previous ranking: 18 (tie). Upcoming games: Wednesday vs. Gonzaga
(ESPN2, 9), Saturday at Georgia. Last week: Beat Louisiana-Lafayette 89-62, lost
to Kansas 92-85.

Dropped out: No. 17 Gonzaga, No. 23 Ohio State, No. 24 Michigan.

Others receiving votes: Dayton (13-1) 54; Illinois State (14-0) 50; Michigan
(11-3) 49; Saint Mary's (13-1) 43; Ohio State (10-2) 40; Memphis (10-3) 37;
Brigham Young (11-2) 34; Illinois (13-2) 34; California (13-2) 31; Davidson
(10-2) 31; Arkansas (11-1) 27; Gonzaga (8-4) 27; Wisconsin (11-3) 26; Texas A&M
(13-1) 22; Missouri (12-2) 21; Florida (12-2) 11; UNLV (13-2) 11; LSU (12-1) 10;
Kansas (10-3) 7; Stanford (11-1) 5; Florida State (13-2) 1; Maryland (11-2) 1;
Utah State (12-1) 1; Washington (10-3) 1.

The USA TODAY/ESPN board of coaches is made up of 31 head coaches at Division I
institutions. All are members of the National Association of Basketball Coaches.


LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              941 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                          September 15, 2005 Thursday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

LET'S ALL HEAR IT FOR NO. 1 - NEW MEXICO?;
COMPUTER RANKINGS JUST PLAIN RANK

BYLINE: SCOTT WOLF College football

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. S6

LENGTH: 770 words


If you hate the Bowl Championship Series rankings, it's unlikely a glance at
some of the current computer ratings will increase your confidence in the
system.

One of the computer formulas used by the BCS is the Massey Ratings, which this
week ranks New Mexico as the No. 1 team and UNLV, which is 1-1 with a
three-point victory over Idaho, at No. 4.

Missouri, which lost to mighty New Mexico, is No. 3.

USC? The Trojans are down at No. 45 while UCLA is ranked 85th despite two
blowout victories. An explanation for these ``rankings'' is that it's early in
the season and the BCS doesn't use these formulas until midseason.

But these early discrepancies highlight why computer rankings remain
controversial.

When Massey includes the more than 700 colleges that play football in his
rankings, not just Division I-A teams, the Trojans fall to 138th in the nation
while the Bruins drop to No. 399.

Luckily, the Trojans are comfortably ahead of Whittier College (No. 240), which
last defeated USC in 1915.

Another formula used by the BCS, the Colley Rankings, makes only slightly more
sense. It lists New Mexico No. 1, but does have UCLA 14th while USC is 36th.

It's these early rankings that help explain why the poll voters' role was
increased in the BCS rankings.

--Pitt pressure? It took only two losses for Panthers coach Dave Wannstedt to
start invoking the name of the Pittsburgh Steelers' legendary coach, Chuck Noll.

``Chuck Noll said pressure is what you feel when you don't know what you're
doing,'' Wannstedt said. ``It's not an effort thing. There's not one thing you
can put it on. We'll get it right.''

--Portis prospers: Even though Florida quarterback Chris Leak might be the best
quarterback in the nation, Gators coach Urban Meyer is raving about former Taft
of Woodland Hills quarterback Josh Portis.

``Josh Portis is dynamic,'' Meyer told the Lakeland, Fla., Ledger. ``We're going
to get him ready to go. We're going to play him a bunch.''

--More Moore: Speaking of local quarterbacks, former Hart of Newhall star Matt
Moore has completed 53 of 76 for 646 yards and five touchdowns in two games for
Oregon State.

--Player of the week: Ohio State linebacker A.J. Hawk couldn't single-handedly
beat Texas, but he came close. Hawk recorded 12 tackles, including seven solo,
three tackles for loss (including two sacks), one interception, a forced fumble
and a fumble recovery.

The two-time Preseason Big Ten Defensive Player of the Year picked off his
seventh career pass in the second quarter and returned it 24 yards to set up an
OSU field goal. On the next Longhorns' possession, Hawk recovered a fumble to
set up another field goal.

--Coach of the week: Ohio's Frank Solich stunned Pitt in his debut with a 16-10
victory as cornerback Dion Byrum returned two interceptions for touchdowns.
Don't expect Solich, the former Nebraska coach, to get a second award because he
plays Virginia Tech this week.

--Here comes Vandy: After upsetting Arkansas, Vanderbilt plays five consecutive
home games, which makes it a strong contender for the Top 25 in the next month.

--Schedule these guys: Missouri coach Gary Pinkel seems to be an easy mark
during non-conference games.

In 2002, he lost to Bowling Green 51-28. Last year, Troy defeated the Tigers
24-14. And last week, Missouri lost to New Mexico 45-35.

Missouri plays Troy on Saturday and is listed as an early 20 1/2-point favorite.
Last year, the Tigers were 11- point favorites against the Trojans.

--Worst Coast offense? In two games, Nebraska's linebackers have scored two more
touchdowns (four) than its I-backs.

``I think it's pretty evident they've got a ways to go here,'' said Aaron
Graham, the starting center on Nebraska's national championship teams in 1994
and 1995. ``The passing game, you can tell they're getting taught right
techniques and trying their best to use them. ... but the running game is what
I'd say is a concern.

``You're not used to seeing a running game from Nebraska being dominated, and
we're in that mode right now where we're not getting that push.''

--Is the caller there? Washington receiver Craig Chambers wasn't listed on the
depth chart last week, so his mother, Sue, called a sports-talk radio station in
Seattle to complain about it. Some Washington students are even wearing ``Free
Chambers'' T-shirts.

Chambers then played against California, caught a 39-yard touchdown pass and
finished with three receptions for 65 yards.

``I don't think I was practicing so bad I deserved not to play. ... I really
worked hard on trying to run my routes (at practice last week),'' he said. ``Not
just harder, but making it look like I'm running harder.''

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  The college football column appears Thursdays in the Daily News. Staff
writer Scott Wolf can be reached at (818) 713-3607 or scott.wolf@dailynews.com

GRAPHIC: photo, 2 boxes
 Photo: Pittsburgh coach Dave Wannstedt is off to a forgettable start after
losses to Notre Dame and Ohio. ``It's not an effort thing.'' he said. ``We'll
get it right.'' Harry How/Getty Images Box: (1) ON CAMPUS (2) DAILY NEWS/CBS
2/KCAL 9 SPORTS CENTRAL POWER RANKINGS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 Digital First Media

                              942 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                          September 21, 2016 Wednesday

UMass Lowell men's soccer team ranked No. 24

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: UMASS LOWELL COLLEGE

LENGTH: 141 words


LOWELL -- For the first time the program's Division I history, the UMass Lowell
men's soccer team entered the NSCAA DI Men's College Soccer Top 25 poll, as the
squad enters the rankings at No. 24.

The squad is still the lone unbeaten America East team, and the only conference
school to appear in the rankings.

Following a 1-0-1 week, the River Hawks maintained their top ranking in the
NSCAA East Region poll, and also moved up four spots in the College Soccer New
National Poll to take over the No. 24 ranking.

The River Hawks battled a pair of Ivy League schools, defeating Brown, 2-1,
before drawing 1-1 against Dartmouth three days later.

The 6-0-1 mark ties the program's best start through seven games, set in 2012
when UMass Lowell went 10-0-1 to begin the season.

The River Hawks are back in action Wednesday with a road game at Bryant at 4
p.m.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              943 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Reboot Illinois

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            November 20, 2015 Friday

The Economist's 20 best Illinois colleges

BYLINE: Emily Olsen, Reboot Illinois

SECTION: NATIONAL POLITICAL NEWS

LENGTH: 510 words


Nov. 20--The Economist has picked out its top colleges in the country for the
first time ever -- and the list of the best Illinois colleges may surprise you.

Using the U.S. Department of Education's college scorecard, the Economist
created its rankings based on one basic idea:

(T)he economic value of a university is equal to the gap between how much money
its students subsequently earn, and how much they might have made had they
studied elsewhere.

The Economist analyzed the class of 2001's median income 10 years after
graduation and looked at factors like sex, race, college size and how many
students received Pell Grants for low-income families. The rankings also
factored in what students were studying -- an art school graduate probably will
make less than an engineering graduate, even if the art school was a good choice
economically.

But like any ranking, this list has its problems. The college scorecard only
includes students who applied for federal financial aid, so some graduates might
not have been counted. The data also only follows students for 10 years after
they graduate, so that could leave out some potential high-earners, like
doctors, who have been in graduate school.

Here are the top 20 Illinois colleges from the Economist's rankings.

https://magic.piktochart.com/embed/9510678-top-colleges-in-illinois

College (National Ranking)

1) Illinois Wesleyan University (80)

2) Elmhurst College (113)

3) Millikin University (144)

4) MacMurray College (197)

5) University of Illinois at Chicago (214)

6) Concordia University Chicago (260)

7) University of St. Francis (263)

8) Eastern Illinois University (270)

9) Western Illinois University (303)

10) Blackburn College (343)

11) Augustana College (352)

12) University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (368)

13) Illinois State University (379)

14) Monmouth College (380)

15) Trinity Christian College (431)

16) Roosevelt University (441)

17) Hebrew Theological College (518)

18) Saint Xavier University (580)

19) Bradley University (600)

20) Northeastern Illinois University (618)

NEXT ARTICLE: Top 30 "best value" colleges and universities in Illinois

[RECOMMENDED]

* The 22 most affordable online colleges in Illinois

* Wallethub ranks the top community colleges in Illinois for 2015

* The top 10 most conservative and liberal colleges in Illinois, says Niche

* Crime on campus: 30 Illinois colleges with the most crime

* A look at some of the presidential perks being offered at public colleges in
Illinois

Emily Olsen is a staff writer for Reboot Illinois. Previously with Rivet Radio,
she graduated from Loyola University Chicago where she studied journalism and
political science. She hopes to encourage Illinois residents to take an active
role in their state and local governments.

Reboot Illinois is a nonpartisan website and social media effort dedicated to
involving Illinoisans in the key issues facing our state, including state debt,
corruption and waste and improving business and schools.

___ (c)2015 Reboot Illinois Visit Reboot Illinois at www.rebootillinois.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20151120-2IL-The-Economist-s-20-best-Illinois-colleges-1120-20151120

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 2IL


                                 Copyright 2015

                              944 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Sun

                             August 20, 2004 Friday

City's Universities Inch Up in Rankings

BYLINE: By MICHAEL GRYNBAUM, Special to the Sun

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 415 words


High schoolers are sweating. Parents are fretting. It's that time of year again.

College application season unofficially begins today with the release of U.S.
News & World Report's widely discussed (and sometimes maligned) rankings of the
nation's top universities and liberal arts schools.

For New York, where college admissions can be an obsession, there is good news
on the local front. Both of the city's major universities inched upward in this
year's version of the popular list.

Columbia University clocked in at ninth among national universities, rising two
spots from last year. Its downtown rival, New York University, ranked 32nd, up
three spots from 35th. Farther uptown, Fordham University in the Bronx ranked
70th. SUNY-Binghamton was the highest-ranked public school in the state, at
74th.

Harvard University and Princeton University topped the list, tying for first
place for the second year in a row.

Columbia also ranked highly on the magazine's "Great schools, great values"
list. At 7th place, the Morningside Heights school has 41% of its students
receiving scholarship grants based on financial need. NYU did not make the list,
but it was cited for a commendable study-abroad program.

Overall, this year's rankings saw little change. The Ivy League contributed six
of the top ten national universities, while Williams College and Amherst College
remained atop of the liberal arts college list. U.S. News divides its rankings
into categories of comparable schools.

Ryan Fogarty, a Long Island 18-yearold, is headed to NYU's Tisch School of the
Arts in the fall. He said he would prefer the rankings be more specialized,
since students are often looking for universities that fit their unique
interests.

"They don't break them up into enough categories," Mr. Fogarty said. "They
should break schools down according to what they're strongest in."

The U.S. News rankings are determined by calculating a variety of factors. Peer
assessment, student-retention rates, and faculty resources are the highest
weighted factors. Admissions yield - the number of students accepted who decide
to attend - has been discontinued as a factor in the rankings, after critics
complained it biased colleges toward early decision admissions programs.

Other schools in the magazine's 2004-05 list of top 10 universities were: Yale
University, University of Pennsylvania, Duke University, Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, Stanford University, California Institute of Technology, and
Dartmouth College.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The New York Sun, Two SL, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              945 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                           October 18, 2007 Thursday

College volleyball: SLCC No. 1 JC team in nation

BYLINE: The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 171 words


The Salt Lake Community College's volleyball team made history Wednesday.

It became the first team in school history to attain a No. 1 national ranking.

The Bruins, who were No. 2 last week, jumped one spot in the National Junior
College Athletics Association Division I rankings after former No. 1-ranked
Western Nebraska lost against Franklin Phillips College.

"We're excited," said SLCC coach Shay Goulding. "I'm thrilled to see the girls
get the recognition they deserve right now. But ultimately, we want to be No. 1
at the end of November."

The Bruins have won 21 consecutive matches. They lead the SWAC in hitting
percentage (2.97), assists (13.52), kills (14.62) and service aces (3.01).

SLCC is led by Misa Hanakova, who ranks 25th in the nation in hitting efficiency
(47.37) and assists (10.59).

The Bruins play again on Friday against North Idaho Community College.

Historic ranking

* Salt Lake Community College is ranked No. 1 in NJCAA Division I. It became the
first team in school history to attain a No. 1 national ranking.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              946 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 6, 2014 Wednesday

UMW scores well in magazine rankings

BYLINE: Lindley Estes, The Free Lance-Star, Fredericksburg, Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 233 words


Aug. 06--The Princeton Review has again ranked the University of Mary Washington
among the nation's best colleges, according to a university news release.

But it's not the only organization to take notice of UMW recently. Money
Magazine and Forbes also listed the Fredericksburg-based liberal arts
institution as a top college.

UMW was named this week to The Princeton Review's 2015 edition of "The Best 379
Colleges," which recognized it as a best regional college.

"University of Mary Washington 'lives up to its reputation' while providing
'rigorous education in a fun and engaging atmosphere,'" the review said.
"Students rave about the 'small, beautiful campus' and 'strong sense of
community.'"

The Princeton Review is a New York-based education services company that
annually publishes guidebooks ranking colleges.

Money Magazine, which just released its first Best Colleges Rankings, also
included the University of Mary Washington.

UMW is ranked seventh among Virginia public schools and 107 overall. Money looks
at educational quality, affordability and career outcomes to create its list.

UMW was named for the sixth year to Forbes' America's Top Colleges list in June.

Lindley Estes: 540/735-1976

lestes@freelancestar.com

___ (c)2014 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Va.) Visit The Free Lance-Star
(Fredericksburg, Va.) at www.fredericksburg.com/flshome Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140806-FB-UMW-scores-well-in-magazine-rankings-0806-20140806

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FB


                       Copyright 2014 The Free Lance-Star

                              947 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                           Ledger (Lakeland, Florida)

                           August 27, 1997, Wednesday
                               Correction Appended

U.S. NEWS GIVES FSC TOP MARKS

BYLINE: ANTHONY BRUCE GILPIN The Ledger

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 251 words


LAKELAND -- Florida Southern College offers students one of the South's best
educational bargains, according to rankings published this week in U.S. News &
World Report magazine.

The magazine's annual "America's Best Colleges" issue listed FSC as eighth out
of 10 regional liberal arts colleges in the Southeast in the "Best Values"
category.

That's the same ranking the college had last year.

"We are pleased with the continued recognition by U.S. News," FSC President
Thomas L. Reuschling said.

The magazine judges institutions by comparing student costs at colleges and
universities in the top quarter of its regional quality rankings.

Values are calculated in relation to a school's discounted price -- tuition plus
room, board, fees, books, and estimated personal expenses -- minus the average
of need-based grants.

Students at Florida Southern pay an average of $ 9,139 per academic year,
representing a discount of 46 percent.

U.S. News named Lyon College in Arkansas the best liberal college value in the
South, with average annual costs of $ 7,590, a 48 percent discount.

Florida Southern also made the top tier of Southern liberal arts colleges in
overall quality.

FSC ranked 15th among 130 Southern colleges judged on such criteria as
reputation, academic retention, graduation rate, class size and
student-to-faculty ratio.

"These rankings again point directly to the academic quality of Florida
Southern," said Robert Palmer, FSC's Dean of Enrollment Management.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 29, 1997

CORRECTION:

An article on page B3 on Wednesday incorrectly stated Florida Southern College
was listed in U.S. News & World Reports' "Best values" rankings in this week's
magazine. The listing appears in the Sept. 8 issue.

             Copyright 1997 Lakeland Ledger Publishing Corporation

                              948 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 20, 2015 Tuesday

Virginia: JMU is a regional best school

LENGTH: 165 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Richmond: James Madison University, The state of Virginia has issued the
following news release:



 James Madison University is ranked No. 19 in a new college tool's ranking of
the 25 Best Colleges in the Southeast.





 College Raptor's 2016 rankings include JMU among 10 public and 15 private
colleges and universities in the U.S. Southeast.



 College Raptor's Best College ranking is meant to be an overall assessment of
the health and quality of a college," according to the college search tool's
website. Factors considered are first-year retention rate, median SAT/ACT scores
for incoming freshmen, average faculty salary, student-to-faculty ratio, a
selectivity index, endowment per student, four-year graduation rate and six-year
graduation rate.



 Data used for the comparison comes from colleges and universities as reported
to the National Center for Education Statistics.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              949 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 20, 2015 Tuesday

Virginia: JMU is a regional best school

LENGTH: 165 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Richmond: James Madison University, The State of Virginia has issued the
following news release:



 James Madison University is ranked No. 19 in a new college tool's ranking of
the 25 Best Colleges in the Southeast.





 College Raptor's 2016 rankings include JMU among 10 public and 15 private
colleges and universities in the U.S. Southeast.



 College Raptor's Best College ranking is meant to be an overall assessment of
the health and quality of a college," according to the college search tool's
website. Factors considered are first-year retention rate, median SAT/ACT scores
for incoming freshmen, average faculty salary, student-to-faculty ratio, a
selectivity index, endowment per student, four-year graduation rate and six-year
graduation rate.



 Data used for the comparison comes from colleges and universities as reported
to the National Center for Education Statistics.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              950 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             October 6, 2017 Friday

Wagner a 'best bang for the buck'

LENGTH: 220  words



New York: Wagner College has issued the following news release:
Sept 17 Cover Layout 231x300
 Wagner College was named as a "Best Bang for the Buck" college in the
northeastern U.S. in the latest Washington Monthly College Guide rankings,
published in the magazine's September/October issue. Washington Monthly editors
defined "best bang" colleges as "schools that help non-wealthy students attain
marketable degrees at affordable prices."
Wagner was also ranked in the top half of universities granting master's degrees
in the United States by Washington Monthly.


The Washington Monthly rankings were created in 2005 in reaction against the
dominant U.S. News & World Report college rankings, which were based "on
measures of wealth, fame, and exclusivity," according to Washington Monthly,
"exactly the opposite of what a nation struggling to keep higher education
affordable for an increasingly diverse student population actually needed."
The Washington Monthly rankings are intended to grade schools on a completely
different scale -- "not on what they did for themselves, but on what they did
for their country" -- by quantifying the public good being done by America's
college and universities.

 In case of any query aregarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              951 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 4, 2017 Wednesday

Wagner a 'best bang for the buck'

LENGTH: 220  words



New York: Wagner College has issued the following news release:
Sept 17 Cover Layout 231x300
 Wagner College was named as a "Best Bang for the Buck" college in the
northeastern U.S. in the latest Washington Monthly College Guide rankings,
published in the magazine's September/October issue. Washington Monthly editors
defined "best bang" colleges as "schools that help non-wealthy students attain
marketable degrees at affordable prices."
Wagner was also ranked in the top half of universities granting master's degrees
in the United States by Washington Monthly.


The Washington Monthly rankings were created in 2005 in reaction against the
dominant U.S. News & World Report college rankings, which were based "on
measures of wealth, fame, and exclusivity," according to Washington Monthly,
"exactly the opposite of what a nation struggling to keep higher education
affordable for an increasingly diverse student population actually needed."
The Washington Monthly rankings are intended to grade schools on a completely
different scale -- "not on what they did for themselves, but on what they did
for their country" -- by quantifying the public good being done by America's
college and universities.

 In case of any query aregarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              952 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Odessa American (Texas)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           January 11, 2017 Wednesday

UTPB recognized for online programs

BYLINE: Odessa American, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 333 words


Jan. 11--The University of Texas of the Permian Basin was recently recognized by
College Choice and SR Education Group for its online courses and affordability.

SR Education Group, an education research publisher founded in 2004, ranked UTPB
as one of the Most Affordable Online Colleges in the nation, Taitum Ridgway, an
SR Education Group representative said in an email. It was ranked No. 21 out of
25 institutions.

To develop this ranking, SR Education Group manually researched accredited
schools offering online degree programs and ranked the top 25 according to
annual tuition rates. "Due to an outstanding commitment to affordability, the
University of Texas of the Permian Basin made the ranking at 21st for bachelor's
degrees," Ridgway said in the email.

The average annual tuition rate of the ranked schools is $7,900, the email said.

College Choice, a leading authority in college and university rankings and
resources, ranked UTPB No. 4 in its 2017 ranking for the Best Online Business
Schools in Texas.

College Choice created the 2017 ranking for Best Online Business Schools in
Texas based on the reputation of their programs and its average return on
investment. The sources for this information come from a variety of publicly
accessible records, including a nationwide survey published by the Higher
Education Research Institute at UCLA, U.S. News & World Report, the National
Center for Education Statistics, and PayScale.com.

UTPB also has been recognized by Affordable Colleges Online.

Best Online Criminal Justice Degrees.

Best Online Colleges.

Best Online Engineering Degrees.

Most Affordable Online Colleges.

Best Online Psychology Degrees.

Best Online Counseling Degrees.

Best Online Colleges in Texas.

Follow Odessa American on twitter @OdessaAmerican, like us on Facebook at Odessa
American or call 432-333-7714 for the main newsroom line.

___ (c)2017 the Odessa American (Odessa, Texas) Visit the Odessa American
(Odessa, Texas) at www.oaoa.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170111-OD-UTPB-recognized-for-online-programs-0111-20170111

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OD


                         Copyright 2017 Odessa American

                              953 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

UW-MADISON RANKED 13TH AMONG BEST PUBLIC COLLEGES

BYLINE:  BILL NOVAK  bnovak@madison.com, 608-252-6483

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 233 words


UW-Madison is the 13th-best public university in America, according to rankings
released Tuesday.

The annual America's Best Colleges rankings from U.S. News and World Report also
pegged UW-Madison as the 47th-best college overall.

"We are proud to be recognized as a leader in higher education, especially among
public colleges," Vince Sweeney, vice chancellor for university relations, said
in a statement. "Rankings are but one measure of what makes an institution
great, but it's always an honor to be included in a tool that so many students
and families use to aid in their decision about which college to attend."

The ranking is lower than last year, when UW was 11th among public schools and
41st overall.

The best public college, the report says, is California at Berkeley. Five of the
top 10 schools are in the California system.

Michigan was the top Big Ten Conference public school at No. 4, followed by
Illinois (11), UW, Penn State (14), Ohio State (18), Purdue and Maryland (20),
Rutgers (26), Iowa and Minnesota (27), Indiana (30), Michigan State (35) and
Nebraska (45).

Northwestern, the only private college in the Big Ten, was 13th among all
universities.

The best schools overall are dominated as usual by the Ivy League, with
Princeton, Harvard, Yale and Columbia the top four (Stanford tied for fourth).

Big Ten schools Michigan (29), Illinois (42) and Penn State (48) also made the
top 50.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              954 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              August 21, 1999, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

USF's ranking improves in annual report

BYLINE: STEPHEN HEGARTY

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 488 words



The jump to the third tier in U.S. News' report is nudged along by progress in
several areas.

Fresh off a record setting year in terms of fundraising and research dollars,
the University of South Florida is getting increased recognition in the annual
college rankings done by U.S. News & World Report.

USF jumped from the fourth tier of national universities up to the third tier,
nudged along by small improvements in several areas in the rankings.

The University of Florida saw an even more significant increase in its ranking,
taking a spot among the nation's top 50 universities. UF was ranked 49th, but
the honor is to be in the same category as Harvard, the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology and Princeton. This year's top-ranked institution for the first
time is the California Institute of Technology.

The magazine's annual rankings, which many educators consider to be subjective
and of questionable value, are an attempt to help parents and students cut
through the confusing variables in selecting a good, reputable college. The
ratings are based on academic reputation, graduation and retention rates,
faculty resources, student selectivity and financial resources.

"It's good news for us - moving up into the third tier," said Pat Riordan,
special assistant to USF President Betty Castor. "I think that our designation
by the Board of Regents as a tier one research university helped us and gave us
some more visibility."

USF showed improvement in several areas, though its overall reputation score
(2.5 out of 5) remained unchanged. In this year's report, USF showed that 28
percent of its freshmen graduated in the top 10 percent of their high school
classes, compared to 25 percent of the freshmen the previous year. USF also
showed that 38 percent of its classes had 20 or fewer students, compared to 26
percent the previous year.

The University of Florida maintained the same reputation ranking, 3.6, yet it
moved into the top 50 (it was in the second tier last year) and was ranked the
nation's 16th ranked public university (up from 23rd last year).

"No question, we're delighted to be in the top 50," said UF Vice Provost David
Colburn. "I think we're a very good university. The question is how do  you rank
such things? There are so many things to consider."

Florida State University remained in the second tier and was rated the 45th
ranked public university in the nation. Florida International University joined
USF in the third tier. The University of Central Florida remained in the fourth
tier.

Florida A&M University was ranked in the second tier among the colleges in the
southern region, as was the University of Tampa. Eckerd College was ranked in
the third tier among the nation's liberal arts colleges.

Rollins College and Stetson University fared well, maintaining their rankings as
the second and third ranked universities in the southern region respectively.


LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Pat Riordan, special assistant to USF President
Betty Castor (ran City & State, Metro & State)

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company

                              955 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             December 9, 1998, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Magazine ranks best colleges for blacks

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 435 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



African-Americans trying to balance academic excellence and cultural  diversity
gained a new tool Tuesday as Black Enterprise magazine unveiled a  ranking of
the top 50 universities and colleges where black students are most  likely to
succeed.

Historically black institutions such as Spelman College and Morehouse  College
in Atlanta and Florida A&M University in Tallahassee dominated the top  spots.
Stanford University in California ranked No. 10, the highest of any
predominantly white institution. Georgetown University, Oberlin College and
Swarthmore College also made the list.

The study was conducted for Black Enterprise by Thomas La-Veist, an  associate
professor at Johns Hopkins University and CEO of DayStar Research, a  public
opinion firm.

DayStar compiled a list of 987 accredited four-year schools that had black
enrollment of at least 1.5 percent or that were judged to have significant
interest for black students.

The firm then asked 1,077 black professionals in higher education at the
schools to rate their schools on the academic and social environments for  black
students.

They assessed such areas as academic strengths and social environment. The
study also factored in graduation rates.

Because of their high black enrollment, historically black colleges and
universities were analyzed separately for the rankings.

"We felt it was important that the list evaluate HBCUs and major  institutions
of higher learning according to the conduciveness of their  environments to the
ability of African-American students to succeed and  achieve," said Marjorie
Whigam-Desir, a senior editor at Black Enterprise.

The rankings should help students and parents make "more informed  decisions
about the best college to attend from both an educational and  nurturing
perspective," said Earl Graves, publisher and CEO of Black  Enterprise.

High school students of all races often place prestigious schools at the  top of
their wish lists. Minority students, however, often balance those  wishes with
the need to feel included in campus activities, to have mentors  and to receive
career counseling.

Vania Smith, a graduate student at George Washington University, said the
rankings will be a powerful tool in helping students choose a college where
they will receive a quality education and feel most at home.

Smith said she thinks George Washington, ranked No. 36, made the list  because
it actively recruits minorities and creates an environment where black  students
feel comfortable participating in social and leadership activities.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company

                              956 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 15, 2016 Friday

The Measure of a University

LENGTH: 374  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Berrien Springs: Andrews University has issued the following news release:



  The measure of Andrews University is evaluated in a number of ways each fall,
from rankings of the University and its programs compared to other colleges and
universities nationwide, to its annual fall census--a number that's measured
each September about a week and a half after fall registration closes.





 Increasingly, the University also turns to an annual count called IPEDS:
Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System. This report takes an annual
snapshot of how many students Andrews University--and each postsecondary
institution in the United States--educates in the span of a school year.





 U.S. News Best Colleges



 For many students and their families, though, rankings themselves are what
often receive the most attention.



 U.S. News Best Colleges, one of the oldest and most established list of
rankings, is the one to which most students and families return each year to get
a sense of how various schools measure up among the approximately 3,000
four-year universities and colleges that currently operate in the United States.




 In the 2016 U.S. News Best College's rankings, Andrews University was again the
only Adventist university ranked as a national university, coming in as #175 out
of 276.



 Andrews University was again recognized as the second most ethnically diverse
university in the nation, tied with St. John's University in Queens, New York,
University of Houston and University of Nevada, Las Vegas. It was also ranked as
having the seventh highest percentage of international students, tied with
University of California, San Diego.



 The University was included in a number of other U.S. News rankings, including
A+ Colleges for B Students, Best Grad Schools rankings for Physical Therapy and
Social Work, as well as listings in Best Education Schools, Best Nursing Schools
and Best Psychology Programs.



 Online offerings were also recognized, with listings for Best Online Education
Programs and Best Online Graduate Education Programs. In addition, Andrews'
online MBA program was ranked as #114 in the nation.







 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com







LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

This document could not be formatted for delivery. If your delivery request
included other documents, they completed successfully.

                              958 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 28, 2014 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

The bigger picture

SECTION: GOOD UNIVERSITY GUIDE 2015;FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 151 words


The intensity of global competition is reflected in the rankings of the eight
third-level institutions from Ireland which appear in the latest QS World
University rankings.

Only NUI Galway was moved up, gaining four places from last year to rank 280.
University College Dublin and the University of Limerick find their rankings
unchanged, but the remaining five institutions have all seen declines of between
10 and 50 places. Trinity remains ahead of the field and is Ireland's sole
representative in the world top 100.

The rankings draw heavily upon reputational scores from academics and employers,
alongside measures of the quality of research.

IRISH WORLD VIEW World ranking 1 Trinity College Dublin 71 2 University College
Dublin 139 3 University College Cork 230 4 NUI Galway 280 5 Dublin City
University 366 6 University of Limerick 501= 7 Dublin IT 551= 8 Maynooth 601=
Source: www.topuniversities.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              959 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                          September 18, 2014 Thursday

US and UK universities top world rankings

SECTION: Vol. XXXVIII No. 258

LENGTH: 212  words


American and British universities continue to dominate in the global rankings,
according to London-based education firm The Quacquarelli Symonds (QS), who
assessed the performance of 3,000 universities world-wide.

Six of the 10 top universities were American, with Massachusetts Institute of
Technology (MIT) taking top honours, and the remaining four are British
universities, the rankings said. The ranking is an annual league table ranking
universities and is made after judging the colleges in four key areas: teaching,
research, internationalization and employability, The Telegraph reported.

MIT topped the rankings for a third year in a row. Number two slot became a tie
with the University of Cambridge and London's Imperial College. Both the
universities take the second position. London's Imperial College was the biggest
climber in the top 10, advancing Harvard, University College London and the
University of Oxford.

A total of 31 countries are represented in the top 200 in which the US is the
dominant nation, with 51 institutions, ahead of the UK (29), Germany (13), the
Netherlands (11), Canada (10), Japan (10) and Australia (8).

With the exception of two Swiss-based universities and one in Canada, the
Americans and the Brits also rule the top 20 overall.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              960 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                          September 17, 2014 Wednesday

US and UK universities top world rankings

LENGTH: 215  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


American and British universities continue to dominate in the global rankings,
according to London-based education firm The Quacquarelli Symonds (QS), who
assessed the performance of 3,000 universities world-wide.


      Six of the 10 top universities were American, with Massachusetts Institute
of Technology (MIT) taking top honours, and the remaining four are British
universities, the rankings said. The ranking is an annual league table ranking
universities and is made after judging the colleges in four key areas -
teaching, research, internationalization and employability, The Telegraph
reported.
      MIT topped the rankings for a third year in a row. Number two slot became
a tie with the University of Cambridge and London's Imperial College. Both the
universities take the second position. London's Imperial College was the biggest
climber in the top 10, advancing Harvard, University College London and the
University of Oxford.
      A total of 31 countries are represented in the top 200 in which the US is
the dominant nation, with 51 institutions, ahead of the UK (29), Germany (13),
the Netherlands (11), Canada (10), Japan (10) and Australia (8).
With the exception of two Swiss-based universities and one in Canada, the
Americans and the Brits also rule the top 20 overall.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              961 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        York Daily Record (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 13, 2011 Tuesday

U.S. News rankings: Penn State, Pitt among nation's top colleges

BYLINE: Brittany Wilson, York Daily Record, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 293 words


Sept. 13--YORK, Pa. -- Penn State and the University of Pittsburgh were again
named among the top 100 national universities in annual rankings released today
by U.S. News & World Report.

Schools in the national universities category offer a full range of
undergraduate majors, master's and doctoral degrees. The schools also are
committed to research, according to U.S. News & World Report.

Penn State was ranked 45th overall, using criteria such as acceptance rate (55
percent), average freshman retention rate (93 percent) and classes with fewer
than 20 students (39.2 percent).

Pitt, which came in 58th nationally, had similar numbers. The school accepted 58
percent of applicants in 2010, retained 92 percent of its freshman and has 42
percent of classes with fewer than 20 students.

Other Pennsylvania schools that ranked in the top 100 national universities
include the University of Pennsylvania which came in fifth, Carnegie Mellon at
23, Lehigh at 38 and Drexel at 88.

In the regional universities rankings, which focus on schools that offer many
undergraduate and master's programs but only a few doctoral programs, Villanova
University was ranked No. 1 in the North.

Millersville University was ranked 82nd in that category, and York College came
in 94th.

U.S. News also ranked regional colleges. These schools focus mainly on
undergraduate education but grant fewer than half their degrees in the liberal
arts, according to the publication.

In the North region, Elizabethtown College ranked fourth, Messiah College came
in fifth and Lebanon Valley College was sixth.

To see all the rankings, visit U.S. News & World Report.

___ (c)2011 York Daily Record (York, Pa.) Visit York Daily Record (York, Pa.) at
www.ydr.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110913-YO-U-S-News-rankings-Penn-State-Pitt-among-nation-s-top-
colleges-0913-20110913

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YO


                        Copyright 2011 York Daily Record

                              962 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Lima News (Ohio)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          September 21, 2017 Thursday

ONU gets high marks in several publications

BYLINE: J Swygart, The Lima News, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 505 words


Sept. 21--ADA -- Ohio Northern University is featured in several publications
and venues that highlight outstanding colleges and universities.

Ohio Northern is fourth in the Midwest among regional liberal arts colleges in
the 2018 U.S. News & World Report "Best Colleges" rankings. Those colleges and
universities focus on the undergraduate experience and offer a broad range of
programs in the liberal arts and in professional fields such as business,
nursing and education. Last year, ONU was ranked sixth in that listing.

The U.S. News rankings lauded other ONU programs and aspects of the university's
educational experience. The school's T.J. Smull College of Engineering is ranked
29th nationally among engineering programs that offer a bachelor's or master's
degree as the highest degree. The college continues to advance among top schools
after being ranked 31st last year and 39th the year before. This marks the 10th
time in the last 11 years that ONU's College of Engineering has been ranked as a
top-50 program.

ONU is fourth among Midwest regional colleges in the "Great Schools, Great
Prices" category, which considers quality of programs compared to cost to attend
the university. The university is also included in the "A+ Schools for B
Students," which focuses on colleges and universities where students who possess
spirit and hard work find an environment where they can thrive.

Additionally, ONU is included in Money magazine's list of best colleges, which
combines educational quality, affordability and alumni success in compiling its
rankings. Washington Monthly ranked the university sixth on its "Top 150
Baccalaureate Colleges" list.

ONU is also included in the College Choice "Best Colleges in Ohio" rankings
which focus on academic reputation, student diversity and return on investment.

The Princeton Review included Ohio Northern among its "Best 382 Colleges" and
named it a "Best Regional College" based in part on input of current. Students
remarked favorably on ONU's academic programs as well as the quality and caring
of faculty members.

Additionally, the University is listed in "Creative Colleges," a 2017 guide that
selects schools based on the strength of the creative programs offered at each
institution.

The University's success is gauged by the accomplishments of its recent
graduates. According to the University's Office of Polar Careers, 94 percent of
students who graduated in 2016 found employment or are enrolled in graduate
school within six months of graduation. This number is consistent with recent
years, with 93 percent of graduates finding work in 2015 and 95 percent of
graduates the year before.

RECOMMENDED FOR YOU

4:30 pm       |

Chris Erskine: Our own Rose Bowl meat-and-greet

3:30 pm       |

Woman in Kevin Hart scandal denies being an extortionist

1:14 pm

Updated: 2:22 pm.  |

Fatal accident shuts down lane of U.S. 30 west of Van Wert

Load comments

___ (c)2017 The Lima News (Lima, Ohio) Visit The Lima News (Lima, Ohio) at
www.limaohio.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170921-LM-ONU-gets-high-marks-in-several-publications-0921-20170921

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LM


                          Copyright 2017 The Lima News

                              963 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Albany Herald (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            October 30, 2016 Sunday

Albany Tech earns program recognition

BYLINE: The Albany Herald, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 653 words


Oct. 30--ALBANY -- Albany Technical College (ATC) earned both state and national
recognition when two of the school's programs received high rankings in recent
surveys.

The school's two-year pharmacy technician program was ranked one of the best in
the county when it landed at number 43 in the 2016-2017 rankings from the
Community for Online Accredited Schools (CFAOS).

"We want to highlight schools like Albany Technical College, who are striving
for excellence in online education," said Doug Jones, CEO and Founder of the
Community for Accredited Online Schools in a press release. "These colleges
offer an exceptional educational experience, upholding rigorous accreditation
standards and showing an overall commitment to maximizing student success."

According to the announcement release, in order for universities to qualify for
this ranking, they must hold public or private not-for-profit status and carry
institutional accreditation. Top schools are determined by using a value-based
methodology that analyzes more than a dozen qualitative and quantitative data
points.

"Our department is humbled and excited for the recognition we have received,"
said Dr. JaNee Mobley, Chair of the Pharmacy Technology program at Albany Tech,
in a prepared statement. "To be amongst the Top 50 Pharmacy Technology programs
is rewarding. We take pride in supporting our students to not only graduate from
our program, but also in becoming Certified Pharmacy Technicians."

In addition to Albany Tech, other Technical College System of Georgia (TCSG)
colleges were also in the Top 50 listing, including Columbus Technical College,
Southern Regional Technical College, Central Georgia Technical College, Atlanta
Technical College, Georgia Northwestern Technical College, North Georgia
Technical College, and Augusta Technical College.

The Albany-based technical school was also recognized at the state level when
the institution's online classes and degree programs were ranked in the top ten
on the 2016 ranking by OnlineColleges.com, a website that provides information
about top online colleges and degree programs.

The school was listed as number five out of the 82 schools in Georgia that offer
online programs and degrees. Additionally, on a national scale, the school
ranked number 48 out of 2,868 schools in the study, according to a press
release.

The release goes on to state that ATC earned its ranking partly due to the
number of distance programs it offers, which ranked fifth among the schools
ranked in Georgia.

Students at Albany Technical College can choose from 29 distance education
programs, which include associate degrees and diplomas in program fields such as
accounting, business management and law enforcement, just to name a few.
Additionally, the college offers 12 fully online certificate programs in
subjects such as criminal justice, business and management.

Additionally, the release said ATC ranked seventh in the state for its distance
education participation rate. The college received a perfect score for
flexibility, which is great news for working students hoping to earn their
degree online. Some of the factors included in the flexibility score include
academic/career counseling, electronic library resources and more.

To access the complete OnlineColleges.com rankings or to learn about the
methodology used visit OnlineColleges.com.

Stay Informed

Success! An email has been sent with a link to confirm list signup.

Error! There was an error processing your request.

Breaking News Alerts

Get Breaking News alerts from the Albany Herald delivered to your email.

Local Newsletter

Get the Local News headlines from the Albany Herald delivered daily to your
email.

Sports Newsletter

Get the Sports headlines from the Albany Herald delivered daily to your email.

Manage your lists

___ (c)2016 The Albany Herald, Ga. Visit The Albany Herald, Ga. at
www.albanyherald.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20161030-1AH-Albany-Tech-earns-program-recognition-1030-20161030

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AH


                        Copyright 2016 The Albany Herald

                              964 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Lima News (Ohio)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          September 21, 2017 Thursday

ONU gets high marks in several publications

BYLINE: J Swygart, The Lima News, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 508 words


Sept. 21--ADA -- Ohio Northern University is featured in several publications
and venues that highlight outstanding colleges and universities.

Ohio Northern is fourth in the Midwest among regional liberal arts colleges in
the 2018 U.S. News & World Report "Best Colleges" rankings. Those colleges and
universities focus on the undergraduate experience and offer a broad range of
programs in the liberal arts and in professional fields such as business,
nursing and education. Last year, ONU was ranked sixth in that listing.

The U.S. News rankings lauded other ONU programs and aspects of the university's
educational experience. The school's T.J. Smull College of Engineering is ranked
29th nationally among engineering programs that offer a bachelor's or master's
degree as the highest degree. The college continues to advance among top schools
after being ranked 31st last year and 39th the year before. This marks the 10th
time in the last 11 years that ONU's College of Engineering has been ranked as a
top-50 program.

ONU is fourth among Midwest regional colleges in the "Great Schools, Great
Prices" category, which considers quality of programs compared to cost to attend
the university. The university is also included in the "A+ Schools for B
Students," which focuses on colleges and universities where students who possess
spirit and hard work find an environment where they can thrive.

Additionally, ONU is included in Money magazine's list of best colleges, which
combines educational quality, affordability and alumni success in compiling its
rankings. Washington Monthly ranked the university sixth on its "Top 150
Baccalaureate Colleges" list.

ONU is also included in the College Choice "Best Colleges in Ohio" rankings
which focus on academic reputation, student diversity and return on investment.

The Princeton Review included Ohio Northern among its "Best 382 Colleges" and
named it a "Best Regional College" based in part on input of current. Students
remarked favorably on ONU's academic programs as well as the quality and caring
of faculty members.

Additionally, the University is listed in "Creative Colleges," a 2017 guide that
selects schools based on the strength of the creative programs offered at each
institution.

The University's success is gauged by the accomplishments of its recent
graduates. According to the University's Office of Polar Careers, 94 percent of
students who graduated in 2016 found employment or are enrolled in graduate
school within six months of graduation. This number is consistent with recent
years, with 93 percent of graduates finding work in 2015 and 95 percent of
graduates the year before.

RECOMMENDED FOR YOU

8:00 am       |

Get This: Tucson's giant cactus gift rejected by Amazon in bid for HQ

6:13 am

Updated: 6:13 am.  |

Testimony nears conclusion in Van Wert murder trial

6:12 am

Updated: 6:13 am.  |

Election: Gordon, Magnus -- It's all about style

Load comments

___ (c)2017 The Lima News (Lima, Ohio) Visit The Lima News (Lima, Ohio) at
www.limaohio.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170921-LM-ONU-gets-high-marks-in-several-publications-0921-20170921

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LM


                          Copyright 2017 The Lima News

                              965 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Lima News (Ohio)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          September 21, 2017 Thursday

ONU gets high marks in several publications

BYLINE: J Swygart, The Lima News, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 507 words


Sept. 21--ADA -- Ohio Northern University is featured in several publications
and venues that highlight outstanding colleges and universities.

Ohio Northern is fourth in the Midwest among regional liberal arts colleges in
the 2018 U.S. News & World Report "Best Colleges" rankings. Those colleges and
universities focus on the undergraduate experience and offer a broad range of
programs in the liberal arts and in professional fields such as business,
nursing and education. Last year, ONU was ranked sixth in that listing.

The U.S. News rankings lauded other ONU programs and aspects of the university's
educational experience. The school's T.J. Smull College of Engineering is ranked
29th nationally among engineering programs that offer a bachelor's or master's
degree as the highest degree. The college continues to advance among top schools
after being ranked 31st last year and 39th the year before. This marks the 10th
time in the last 11 years that ONU's College of Engineering has been ranked as a
top-50 program.

ONU is fourth among Midwest regional colleges in the "Great Schools, Great
Prices" category, which considers quality of programs compared to cost to attend
the university. The university is also included in the "A+ Schools for B
Students," which focuses on colleges and universities where students who possess
spirit and hard work find an environment where they can thrive.

Additionally, ONU is included in Money magazine's list of best colleges, which
combines educational quality, affordability and alumni success in compiling its
rankings. Washington Monthly ranked the university sixth on its "Top 150
Baccalaureate Colleges" list.

ONU is also included in the College Choice "Best Colleges in Ohio" rankings
which focus on academic reputation, student diversity and return on investment.

The Princeton Review included Ohio Northern among its "Best 382 Colleges" and
named it a "Best Regional College" based in part on input of current. Students
remarked favorably on ONU's academic programs as well as the quality and caring
of faculty members.

Additionally, the University is listed in "Creative Colleges," a 2017 guide that
selects schools based on the strength of the creative programs offered at each
institution.

The University's success is gauged by the accomplishments of its recent
graduates. According to the University's Office of Polar Careers, 94 percent of
students who graduated in 2016 found employment or are enrolled in graduate
school within six months of graduation. This number is consistent with recent
years, with 93 percent of graduates finding work in 2015 and 95 percent of
graduates the year before.

RECOMMENDED FOR YOU

9:55 am       |

Video: Candidate interviews for Lima's 3rd ward council

8:00 am       |

Get This: Tucson's giant cactus gift rejected by Amazon in bid for HQ

6:13 am

Updated: 6:13 am.  |

Testimony nears conclusion in Van Wert murder trial

Load comments

___ (c)2017 The Lima News (Lima, Ohio) Visit The Lima News (Lima, Ohio) at
www.limaohio.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170921-LM-ONU-gets-high-marks-in-several-publications-0921-20170921

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LM


                          Copyright 2017 The Lima News

                              966 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           September 15, 2017 Friday

OSU, Miami, UD do well on U.S. News' list;
Wittenberg earns mention among liberal arts colleges.;
HIGHER EDUCATION

BYLINE: By Max Filby

SECTION: ; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 478 words


U.S. News & World Report released its 2018 ranking of the nation's "best
colleges" this week and several area schools made the list, with a few even
cracking the top 125.

Miami University received the highest honor among schools in southwest Ohio,
coming in at No. 78 as one of the best "national universities" and No. 31 as a
public university. The only state public college ranked higher than Miami was
Ohio State University, which was No. 54 among all colleges and No. 16 among
public ones.

The University of Dayton also made the list, coming in at No. 124 for national
universities. UD tied with seven other colleges including the University of
Arizona, the University of Nebraska, Colorado State University, University of
California-Riverside, Clarkson University, Seton Hall University and Michigan
Technological University, according to U.S. News.

UD also received high marks for its engineering and business programs and its
overall value, ranking No. 73 in the country.

"To be continually ranked among the top national research universities, the top
business and engineering programs, and among the best value schools is a lasting
validation of the quality and value of a University of Dayton education," Jason
Reinoehl, UD vice president for enrollment management, said in a prepared
statement.

Around 1,388 schools are included in the national ranking, according to U.S.
News.

U.S. News surveyed more than 1,275 schools for statistical data used to
determine the rankings, and some additionally needed data was obtained through
the National Center for Education Statistics. Information on financial
resources, faculty, SAT and ACT scores, acceptance rates, six-year graduation
rates and first-year retention rates were all considered, according to U.S.
News.

Cedarville University was the only area school to receive a top honor in any of
U.S. News' ranking categories. The university was named the No. 1 college for
veterans and came in at No. 13 for regional colleges in the Midwest U.S.

Wright State University had two of its programs also make the 2018 list. The
school's business program ranked at No. 249 while its engineering program tied
with UD's at No. 137 for schools with doctorates as the highest engineering
degree available.

Wright State did not make U.S. News' overall list of best colleges, receiving a
rating of "RNP" or "ranking not published" because the school either did not
qualify for a ranking or did not provide enough data to be ranked, according to
U.S. News.

Wittenberg University was also named the No. 158 best "national liberal arts
college" and the school was also ranked No. 101 in the country by high school
guidance counselors. Central State University was named the No. 44 historically
black college in the country while Wilberforce University was ranked No. 55.

Contact this reporter at 937-225-7419 or email Max.Filby@

coxinc.com.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

                              967 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  Bar & Bench

                            June 9, 2017 6:30 AM EST

A step closer to the truth? The Week's top law colleges in India

BYLINE: Aditya AK

LENGTH: 263  words


Law school rankings by magazines have historically been a fruitless and
misleading exercise, but The Week may have just bucked that trend.

Well, slightly, anyway.

As a welcome change from the ludicrous (perhaps paid) rankings of every year,
The Week has come up with a list that is more acceptable, with a few exceptions.

Each law college is ranked in order of its "Composite Score". It comes as no
surprise that NLSIU Bangalore tops the list, followed by NALSAR Hyderabad and
Faculty of Law, Delhi University. WBNUJS Kolkata is in fourth, followed by NLIU
Bhopal, NLU Jodhpur and Faculty of Law, Banaras Hindu University. GNLU
Gandhinagar, ILS Pune and Symbiosis Pune complete the top ten.

There are five other CLAT law colleges that feature in the top 35: HNLU Raipur
at 13, RMLNLU Lucknow at 14, RGNUL Patiala at 16, NUALS Kochi at 17, and CNLU
Patna at 23.

Here is the list of the top 35 law colleges:

But every list has its share of anomalies, and this is no different. Take NLU
Delhi's low ranking of 19 for instance, or Faculty of Law BHU's high ranking of
7. Perhaps if the components behind this "Composite Score" was revealed, we
could get a better idea of the basis for assigning the ranks to the above
mentioned colleges.

Despite the fact that this list gives prospective law students a more accurate
idea of the top law schools in the country than India Today's, the fact remains
that there is an element of subjectivity that creeps into these exercises. The
Week's rankings are after all based on the perception of 57 experts and 151
current students from various colleges.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


             Copyright 2017 Bar & Bench, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              968 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                            January 29, 2016 Friday

School gets high marks;
Chico State recognized for serving low-income students

BYLINE: Dani Anguiano; danguiano@chicoer.com @Dani_Anguiano on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1006 words

ABSTRACT

Chico State ranked #40 out of 931 schools in helping low-income students find
financial success. The ranking was determined using the Social Mobility Index,
which measures the extent to which universities educate more economically
disadvantaged students at lower tuition, so they can graduate and obtain good
paying jobs.

FULL TEXT

Chico >> Chico State University has been recognized for helping students climb
the social mobility ladder, by serving a high number of economically
disadvantaged students at a low tuition cost compared to other colleges and
universities.

The university was ranked No. 40 out of 931 colleges and universities across the
nation. 19 other CSU campuses were also recognized, and all campuses ranked in
the top 18 percent of the 931 schools listed.

The ranking was determined using the Social Mobility Index developed by PayScale
and CollegeNET, and measures the extent to which universities educate more
economically disadvantaged students at lower tuition, so they can graduate and
obtain well-paid jobs. The index examined five criteria for the ranking,
including tuition cost, graduation rates, the percentage of the student body
from low-income households, salaries of graduates, and the size of a school's
endowment.

The ranking reflects the university's commitment to serving students of diverse
backgrounds,

public affairs coordinator Sarah Langford said.

"We're pleased with being in the top tier of the rankings; it underscores our
commitment to serving students from economically disadvantaged backgrounds and
offering a high quality education at a low cost," Langford said.

According to the index, 30.5 percent of Chico State students are low-income.

Langford attributes this to the recruitment efforts of individual professors as
well programs like the Chico Student Success Center, MESA and Upward Bound,
which recruit students from economically disadvantaged backgrounds.

"Upward Bound begins by targeting students in early high school and reaching out
to students whose parents may not have attended college, and we bring them here
in the summer, so they get used to being on campus," Langford said. "We're
exposing students who may not otherwise get the chance to understand the process
of getting to college."

The university is also close to being recognized as a Hispanic-Serving
Institution, a federal designation that requires at least 25 percent of student
enrollment be Hispanic. Those institutions are eligible for special grants and
funding opportunities. "A lot of the Hispanic students we serve are
first-generation college students or come from economically disadvantaged
backgrounds," Langford said. "We really make an effort here to serve all of our
students, but in particular ones who may not be primed for a college
experience." Langford added that although the ranking speaks to Chico State's
work with disadvantaged students, the university offers an excellent value for
all students. "I think even for your average middle class family the value of
our education for the cost is pretty superior," Langford said." Our grads go on
and get great jobs and that to us shows we are successful."

Reach reporter Dani Anguiano at 896-7767.

Chico >> Chico State University has been recognized for helping students climb
the social mobility ladder, by serving a high number of economically
disadvantaged students at a low tuition cost compared to other colleges and
universities.

The university was ranked No. 40 out of 931 colleges and universities across the
nation. 19 other CSU campuses were also recognized, and all campuses ranked in
the top 18 percent of the 931 schools listed.

The ranking was determined using the Social Mobility Index developed by PayScale
and CollegeNET, and measures the extent to which universities educate more
economically disadvantaged students at lower tuition, so they can graduate and
obtain well-paid jobs. The index examined five criteria for the ranking,
including tuition cost, graduation rates, the percentage of the student body
from low-income households, salaries of graduates, and the size of a school's
endowment.

The ranking reflects the university's commitment to serving students of diverse
backgrounds,

public affairs coordinator Sarah Langford said.

"We're pleased with being in the top tier of the rankings; it underscores our
commitment to serving students from economically disadvantaged backgrounds and
offering a high quality education at a low cost," Langford said.

According to the index, 30.5 percent of Chico State students are low-income.

Langford attributes this to the recruitment efforts of individual professors as
well programs like the Chico Student Success Center, MESA and Upward Bound,
which recruit students from economically disadvantaged backgrounds.

"Upward Bound begins by targeting students in early high school and reaching out
to students whose parents may not have attended college, and we bring them here
in the summer, so they get used to being on campus," Langford said. "We're
exposing students who may not otherwise get the chance to understand the process
of getting to college."

The university is also close to being recognized as a Hispanic-Serving
Institution, a federal designation that requires at least 25 percent of student
enrollment be Hispanic. Those institutions are eligible for special grants and
funding opportunities. "A lot of the Hispanic students we serve are
first-generation college students or come from economically disadvantaged
backgrounds," Langford said. "We really make an effort here to serve all of our
students, but in particular ones who may not be primed for a college
experience." Langford added that although the ranking speaks to Chico State's
work with disadvantaged students, the university offers an excellent value for
all students. "I think even for your average middle class family the value of
our education for the cost is pretty superior," Langford said." Our grads go on
and get great jobs and that to us shows we are successful."

Reach reporter Dani Anguiano at 896-7767.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              969 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 19, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

College Rankings

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 144 words



To the Editor:

Thanks to Austan Goolsbee for ''How Rankings Rate'' (Op-Ed, April 12). Recently,
I went on a college tour at N.Y.U., where the admissions officer was asked what
SAT score was required for admission. The officer not only responded with the
technical answer, but also told us how the statistic was derived and what it
implied, and in the process dispelled that myth. But the next question asked was
the student-faculty ratio!

Mr. Goolsbee correctly points out that rankings ''try to quantify the
unquantifiable.'' In doing so, statistics render the qualifiable meaningless.

I decided not to go to N.Y.U., not because of its boastful rankings and SAT
scores, but because the urban campus made me desire the peace and quiet I had
found at other colleges. Truly, no statistic could quantify such a personal
feeling.

TEJAS GAWADE
Staten Island, April 13, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company

                              970 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           September 19, 2016 Monday

Universities fear further fall in latest international rankings

BYLINE: Pat Leahy

SECTION: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 285 words


Irish universities are bracing themselves for further falls in international
rankings this week, with the publication of the influential Times Higher
Education university rankings on Wednesday.

Both UCD and Trinity College are fearful of slipping outside the elite top 200,
with Trinity facing the additional challenge of potentially being overtaken by
UCD as Ireland's leading university.

Recently, all Irish universities, with the exception of NUI Galway, declined in
the QS University Rankings. However, university heads are known to be even more
concerned about the impending Times results, generally regarded as the most
influential of the university league tables. They are relied upon by many
involved in international research funding.

Trinity prediction

Academics in Trinity last week received a note from the college's dean of
research John Boland, which predicted Trinity could fall in the rankings.

Trinity is currently ranked 160th in the world in the Times system, while UCD is
ranked 176. Other Irish universities are all ranked outside the top 250.

"It would be a huge blow to Trinity," said one source in the college when asked
about a potential fall outside the top 200.

A UCD source said that the college's hierarchy was "not feeling good" about this
week's ranking results.

Universities are increasingly focused on their standing in various world
rankings. All universities have complained vociferously to the Government that
funding shortfalls have led directly to their poor performance in recent
rankings, with pressure on staff-student ratios especially acute.

Minister for Education Richard Bruton said universities would have to introduce
reforms in return for any increases in funding.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              971 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 5, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

High Schools Avoid Class Ranking, Vexing Colleges

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1328 words


Application files are piled high this month in colleges across the country.
Admissions officers are poring over essays and recommendation letters, scouring
transcripts and standardized test scores.

But something is missing from many applications: a class ranking, once a major
component in admissions decisions.

In the cat-and-mouse maneuvering over admission to prestigious colleges and
universities, thousands of high schools have simply stopped providing that
information, concluding it could harm the chances of their very good, but not
best, students.

Canny college officials, in turn, have found a tactical way to respond. Using
broad data that high schools often provide, like a distribution of grade
averages for an entire senior class, they essentially recreate an applicant's
class rank.

The process has left them exasperated.

''If we're looking at your son or daughter and you want us to know that they are
among the best in their school, without a rank we don't necessarily know that,''
said Jim Bock, dean of admissions and financial aid at Swarthmore College.

William M. Shain, dean of undergraduate admissions at Vanderbilt University,
said, ''There's a movement these days to not let anybody know that a kid has
done better than other kids.''

Admissions directors say the strategy can backfire. When high schools do not
provide enough general information to recreate the class rank calculation, many
admissions directors say they have little choice but to do something virtually
no one wants them to do: give more weight to scores on the SAT and other
standardized exams.

But high schools persist. The Miami-Dade County School Board decided last month
to discontinue class rankings. Jeanne Friedman, the principal of Miami Beach
High School and chairwoman of a committee of principals that lobbied to end
ranking, said principals thought it would cut down on competition in schools and
force college admissions officials to look more closely at each applicant.

''When you don't rank, then they have to look at the total child,'' Dr. Friedman
said.

The shift away from class rank began with private schools making calculations
that admissions officers might not look favorably on a student with an A-minus
average and strong SAT scores who ranked 25th or 35th in a talented class of 150
students.

But the movement has accelerated over the past five years or so, many deans of
admissions say. Now nearly 40 percent of all high schools have either stopped
ranking their students or have ceased giving that information to colleges,
according to a survey released last year by the National Association for College
Admission Counseling, which represents high school guidance counselors and
college admissions officers.

At Kenyon College in Ohio, 60 percent of the students who enrolled last fall as
freshmen did not apply with a class ranking. At Vanderbilt, 57 percent of those
who applied for admission this year did not have a class rank. Last year, 51
percent of the applicants at Swarthmore and at the University of Massachusetts
had no class rank, as did 42 percent of applicants to the University of Oregon.

Many college deans deplore the trend, saying it forces them to either recreate
class rank, make less informed decisions or overemphasize results on
standardized tests.

That is because when a high school provides a student's grade point average
without giving class rank or other information that puts the grade in context,
it significantly diminishes the meaning of the grade, Mr. Shain and a dozen
other admissions directors said.

''If a kid has a B-plus record, what does that mean?'' said Jim Miller, the dean
of admissions at Brown University. ''If a school doesn't give any A's, it could
be a very good record. You've got to position the kids in some relative
environment.''

Mr. Shain said the lack of information could result in judging the student more
on standardized test results, something he said was counterproductive.

''The less information a school gives you, the more whimsical our decisions will
be,'' he said. ''And I don't know why a school would do that.''

While admissions officials emphasize the need for class rankings to view a
student in context, the impulse to do away with rankings came from parents and
high school administrators who thought colleges were failing to view students in
their full context when they used shortcuts like class rank.

Sometimes students are separated in class rankings by a few hundredths of a
point in a four-point grading system, in which an A is worth four points and a B
three points. In the most competitive private and public high schools, the gap
between a student ranked second and one ranked 14th can be minuscule.

Private schools in particular make this argument.

''Especially in schools that are smaller, ranking is something that could hurt
applicants,'' said Myronee A. Simpson, associate director of college guidance at
the Ranney School, a private school in Tinton Falls, N.J. ''Our top 10 percent
of the class here, since we have 46 seniors, would be four or five students.''

Some high schools have other motivations for eliminating class ranking: to
restrain cutthroat competition among students and to encourage them to take
challenging courses without worrying about their grades.

''The day that we handed out numerical rank was one of the worst days in my
professional life,'' said Margaret Loonam, a co-principal and director of
guidance at Ridgewood High School, a public school in northern New Jersey that
stopped telling students and colleges about class rank a decade ago. ''They were
sobbing. Only one person is happy when you hand out rank: the person who is No.
1.''

''In a school like this, where the top 30 percent of the class is strong
academically, it was unfair to all of those students who are in that elite
group,'' Mrs. Loonam said.

At some schools, including Ridgewood, officials continue to maintain class
rankings in secret, disclosing them only when absolutely necessary, like when a
student is applying to military academies, which require class rank, or when
they are competing for merit scholarships that require the information.

When high schools do not provide rankings, the broad information they sometimes
include about grades can come in many forms: a bar graph showing how many
students in a class had grade averages of A-minus to A or B-plus to B; a table
listing grade averages by deciles (which averages fell in the top 10 percent of
a class, for example); and even a graphic device called a scattergram, which
shows the distribution of grades by plotting a dot for each grade average in a
graduating class.

That allows colleges to estimate where a student ranks.

Still, some institutions, especially larger universities, may not have the time
for that.

''If we're looking at a particular student's file and we can't find a proxy for
class rank, then we move on and we make a decision without it,'' said Martha F.
Pitts, assistant vice president for enrollment management at the University of
Oregon. ''The question is, how good is that decision? Have we made a decision
that is not as well informed as it could have been?''

For some, the decline of class rankings represents an opportunity. ''I think it
kind of frees us in some ways; it enables us to take the kids who are a joy to
teach,'' said Jennifer Delahunty Britz, dean of admissions and financial aid at
Kenyon College. ''It allows you to tailor your admission process to what your
institution strives for.''

But that is a distinctly minority view. Mr. Shain of Vanderbilt said an internal
review showed that the admission rate at Vanderbilt was highest for students
witha class rank and lowest for those whose schools provided neither a rank nor
general data about grades.

''You're saying your grades don't matter and that you won't tell us what they
mean,'' Mr. Shain said. ''I think it's an abdication of educational
responsibility.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: William M. Shain, top left, and James Onwuahi sorting through
applications recently in the admissions office of Vanderbilt University in
Nashville, and Wes Lawrence, above, a Vanderbilt senior, filing them.
(Photographs by Josh Anderson for the New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company

                              972 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 13, 2015 Friday

Ohio: On a Roll for Rankings

LENGTH: 393  words

DATELINE: Columbus


Baldwin Wallace University, The State of Ohio has issued the following news
release:

These rankings complement a series of additional ones BW achieved over the past
year and bring to life the University's mission of providing undergraduate and
graduate students with exceptional learning opportunities and career
preparation.

Online Programs Score U.S. News Rankings
Meeting the needs of today's students who seek convenient education options, BW
has been offering MBA and MAEd programs in an online format since 2011. The
programs, which feature small classes, dynamic peer-to-peer discussions and
intense faculty support, are taught by the same full-time faculty who teach BW
courses on campus.

BW was cited on U.S. News & World Report's national list of "Best Online MBA
Programs" and "Best Online Graduate Education Programs." Criteria for selection
to the list include admissions selectivity, reputation for excellence among peer
institutions, and academic and career support services offered to students.

"Best College Value" Placement by Kiplinger's
Having been cited on the Kiplinger's list in past, BW again appears on its 2015
"300 Best College Values" ranking. Culled from public and private four-year
1,200 U.S. schools, the Kiplinger's list rates schools on academic quality, cost
and financial aid.

Top "College Choice"
Appearing on a 2015 list of "Top 50 Midwestern Regional Universities," Baldwin
Wallace earned accolades by College Choice for its academic reputation,
financial aid offerings, overall cost, and success of graduates in the post-
college job market.

The independent college search and rankings website also placed BW among the top
50 online MBA and graduate business programs in the nation for factors
corresponding to reputation and affordability.

More Rankings Marking Success
Earlier this year, Baldwin Wallace was recognized on three lists of distinction
compiled by US News & World Report and achieved a national ranking on the new
outcomes-based Educate to Career (ETC) list. BW also was selected for inclusion
to Washington Monthly's 2014 Best Master's Universities as well as the
magazine's Best Bang for Buck list. BW also is listed among Forbes 650 Top
Colleges and Princeton Review's Best Midwestern Colleges.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              973 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 13, 2015 Friday

Ohio: On a Roll for Rankings

LENGTH: 393  words

DATELINE: Columbus


Baldwin Wallace University, The State of Ohio has issued the following news
release:

These rankings complement a series of additional ones BW achieved over the past
year and bring to life the University's mission of providing undergraduate and
graduate students with exceptional learning opportunities and career
preparation.

Online Programs Score U.S. News Rankings
Meeting the needs of today's students who seek convenient education options, BW
has been offering MBA and MAEd programs in an online format since 2011. The
programs, which feature small classes, dynamic peer-to-peer discussions and
intense faculty support, are taught by the same full-time faculty who teach BW
courses on campus.

BW was cited on U.S. News & World Report's national list of "Best Online MBA
Programs" and "Best Online Graduate Education Programs." Criteria for selection
to the list include admissions selectivity, reputation for excellence among peer
institutions, and academic and career support services offered to students.

"Best College Value" Placement by Kiplinger's
Having been cited on the Kiplinger's list in past, BW again appears on its 2015
"300 Best College Values" ranking. Culled from public and private four-year
1,200 U.S. schools, the Kiplinger's list rates schools on academic quality, cost
and financial aid.

Top "College Choice"
Appearing on a 2015 list of "Top 50 Midwestern Regional Universities," Baldwin
Wallace earned accolades by College Choice for its academic reputation,
financial aid offerings, overall cost, and success of graduates in the post-
college job market.

The independent college search and rankings website also placed BW among the top
50 online MBA and graduate business programs in the nation for factors
corresponding to reputation and affordability.

More Rankings Marking Success
Earlier this year, Baldwin Wallace was recognized on three lists of distinction
compiled by US News & World Report and achieved a national ranking on the new
outcomes-based Educate to Career (ETC) list. BW also was selected for inclusion
to Washington Monthly's 2014 Best Master's Universities as well as the
magazine's Best Bang for Buck list. BW also is listed among Forbes 650 Top
Colleges and Princeton Review's Best Midwestern Colleges.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              974 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                           January 12, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Call for action as city slides to 35 in rankings

BYLINE: Bryan Henesey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 695 words


NOTTINGHAM City Council has fallen 21 places in the table for post-16 education,
according to figures released today.

The council plummeted from 14th to 35th out of 149 authorities in Key Stage 5
education.

It has led to education leaders calling for improvements to address the slide.

The figures also reveal that the average points score per student in the city
fell to 749.8 in 2010, compared to 781.3 points the previous year.

The results, which include A-levels, are the city's lowest national ranking for
more than five years.

Barry Day, chief executive of the Greenwood Dale Foundation Trust, which
sponsors Nottingham Academy, said action was needed to improve the city's
standing.

He said: "It is disappointing that the results have dropped so markedly in
Nottingham City.

"The responsibility for all schools and colleges with post-16 students is to get
the best results possible to ensure youngsters go to university. This is
something that needs to be looked at very carefully and put right."

Mr Day said he was "delighted" with Nottingham Academy's own Key Stage 5
results, which were the first since the academy took over the former Greenwood
Dale School in Sneinton and Elliott Durham School in Mapperley in 2009.

An average points score of 770.1 points placed it as the fourth best college in
the city.

Mr Day said: "It shows what you can do when you set your sights on improving
education for young people."

Retired teacher Bernard Nicholson, who left Trinity School in Aspley after 23
years last year, said the city's standing in Key Stage 5 was "disastrous".

He said: "Post-16 is the main area of our schooling and if our sixth-forms are
not up to scratch then no one is going to look at our schools.

"We have got to have a close look at what we are doing in post-16 education. We
have got to wake up and not cover over the results.

"Nottingham should be doing as good as anywhere else in the country."

Councillor David Mellen, Nottingham City Council's portfolio holder for
children's services, said: "Even if the authority has slipped down the table, we
still stand very well in comparison to many others. We want to encourage as many
young people as possible to do A-levels and we have to work very hard to do
that."

Notts County Council also dropped from 88th to 101st - its lowest ranking in the
last five years.

The average points score per student dipped from 697.9 in 2009 to 693.1 points.

PROPOSED COLLEGE MERGER WILL IMPROVE RESULTS SOUTH Nottingham College and Castle
College Nottingham say a proposed merger could lead to improved standards,
despite seeing a dip in Key Stage 5 results in 2010.

The average points score for Key Stage 5 students at both colleges dropped in
2010 - a result which the colleges say they expected due to a change in the
curriculum.

The average points score at South Nottingham College was 647.5 - down from 717.7
points in 2009.

At Castle College, the average points score was 550.8 - down from 579.1 points
in 2009.

A South Nottingham College and Castle College spokesperson said: "This was
expected and reflects changes in curriculum delivery that occurred on vocational
programmes to reflect the needs of the workplace rather than the needs of
universities.

"We are confident that the quality of Level 3 provision continues to improve.

"The barometer of this can be found in the 'Points Score per Entry' figures
which improved on last year's results.

"Taking this into account we remain confident that the proposed merger between
the two colleges will lead to an increase in these figures in due course through
increased resources and a continuing focus on improvement in teaching and
learning."

GCSE national rankings: City A-level national rankings: City Rankings 146th
(*151) 140th (*151) 144th (*149) 141st (*149) 146th (*149) 147th (*149) 146th
(*149) Rankings 35th (*149) 14th (*149) 16th (*147) 22nd (*147) 31st (*148) 27th
(*148) 19th (*147) Year 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Year 2010 2009 2008
2007 2006 2005 2004 County County Rankings 101st 88th 77th 88th 89th Rankings
117th 105th 106st 100th 97th Year 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Year 2010 2009 2008
2007 2006 The * donates the total number of local authorities nationally

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: It is disappointing the results have dropped so markedly... This is
something that needs to be looked at very carefully and put right. Barry Day
Working hard: Interactive media diploma students at Castle College Nottingham.
From left, Piotr Maczko, Seb Angel, Dara Elakhani. PICTURE: SHAWN RYAN
NOSR20110111A-736_C

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2011 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              975 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                        Armenpress News Agency (English)

                              May 5, 2016 Thursday

US dominates in Times Higher Education world reputation rankings

LENGTH: 243  words


YEREVAN, MAY 5, ARMENPRESS. The US continues to dominate theTimes Higher
Education (THE) world reputation rankings, with Harvard top, "Armenpress"
reports citing BBC.

The UK has 10 universities in the top 100 of the world's best when it comes to
global reputation, but many have slipped down the rankings this year.Cambridge
and Oxford remain in the top five, at fourth and fifth place respectively, but
both have moved down two places on their 2015 ranking.

London Business School was the only UK institution that improved its ranking;
Edinburgh, King's and Manchester slipped down from their 2015 ranking, while
Warwick stayed the same.

Asia has 17 universities in the top 100 - up from 10 in last year's rankings.

Three London universities stay in the top third of the table - Imperial College
London at 15, University College London at 20 and the London School of Economics
and Political Science at 24 - but each has fallen slightly on last year's
ranking.

University of Edinburgh (38th), King's College London (43rd), University of
Manchester (joint 49th), London Business School (between 81st and 90th) and
University of Warwick (between 81st and 90th) also made the top 100 global
reputation ranking.

The University of Bristol and Durham University have fallen out of the top 100,
bringing the UK's total number of universities in the rankings to 10 for 2016 -
down from 12 last year.

The rankings are based on an invitation-only survey of leading academics.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1176


                           Copyright 2016 Armenpress
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              976 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 9, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Southwestern takes lead in breaking from U.S. News ratings

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN editorial AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 579 words


It's not exactly the Declaration of Independence, but a letter circulating among
university presidents has launched a revolution against the U.S. News & World
Report college rankings. Leading the charge for change is Southwestern
University President Jake Schrum.

At a recent meeting of the Annapolis Group, a coalition of the top liberal arts
schools in the country, a majority of the 80 university presidents in attendance
said they would no longer participate in the U.S. News rankings. Instead, the
group agreed to develop an alternative forum for presenting information about
their colleges.

This decision comes just two months after 12 university presidents - including
Schrum - signed and circulated a letter asking other schools to boycott the
rankings. The letter garnered 34 additional signatures.

The Annapolis Group's announcement pits a growing number of universities against
the magazine's rankings. U.S. News editor Brian Kelly says the rankings provide
valuable information to prospective students.

But critics say the rankings are incomplete and compare dissimilar institutions.
After all, they say, is it really fair to include a large public school like the
University of Texas in the same category as the private Harvard University?

One thing is certain: It's hard to overstate the influence of the rankings. U.S.
News isn't the only metric that rates universities, but it's the only one that
matters. Publicly, university presidents criticize the rankings, then privately
obsess over how to improve them. A rise in the rankings means increased
applications and donations, and a fall means unhappy students and alumni.

Unlike some other institutions involved in the protest, Southwestern, ranked 57,
has much to lose by refusing to cooperate with U.S. News. As the president of
Sarah Lawrence College revealed in a recent Washington Post op-ed column, U.S.
News will penalize schools that don't provide information.

This is one of the reasons we applaud Schrum's leadership. He has been one of
the most vocal critics of the rankings from the get-go.

"Our education is too corporatized, quite frankly," Schrum said. "We are a
society that thrives on winning, and we like to see who's losing, too. Rankings
make up America, but they don't reflect what's at the heart of what we're trying
to do in higher education."

For years, Schrum has spoken out against the rankings at Annapolis Group
meetings. It got to the point, he said, where "every time I would stand up they
would ask 'Is this your regular speech or something new?'"

But Schrum's perseverance paid off. This year, he didn't have to say a word. "It
was like a snowball rolling down the hill," he said. "I just sat back and
watched."

It is important to note, however, that opposition to the U.S. News rankings has
mostly been limited to liberal arts colleges. Moreover, not even some of the
most prestigious liberal arts colleges, such as Williams and Swarthmore, have
joined in.

Without the support of these schools, and without a top-tier national
institution like Harvard lending its support, it's unlikely that the Annapolis
Group's efforts will succeed. U.S. News doesn't care if Southwestern won't send
information. It does care if Harvard won't.

Although we agree with many of the Annapolis Group's criticisms, we're not so
sure the U.S. News rankings are unnecessary. Are the rankings flawed and
overvalued? Undoubtedly. But is it important to have an independent evaluator of
universities? Undeniably.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved

                              977 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 19, 2013 Thursday

Washington Monthly Again Cites Catawba as a College That Is "Doing for the
Country"

LENGTH: 238  words


St.Salisbury: Catawba College has issued the following news release:

Washington Monthly magazine released its 2013 College Guide and Rankings in
August and Catawba College is included in that publication's baccalaureate
college rankings. Catawba is one of the institutions the magazine cites as
educating students for the good of the country.

Washington Monthly rates schools based on their contribution to the public good
in three broad categories: Social Mobility (recruiting and graduating low-income
students), Research (producing cutting-edge scholarship and PhDs), and Service
(encouraging students to give something back to their country). Institutions are
ranked as in four categories: Liberal Arts Colleges, National Universities,
Master's Universities, or Baccalaureate Colleges.

This publication's online site notes that this rankings guide asks not what
colleges can do for you, but what colleges are doing for the country. "Are they
educating low-income students, or just catering to the affluent? Are they
improving the quality of their teaching, or ducking accountability for it? Are
they trying to become more productive -- and if so, why is average tuition
rising faster than health care costs? Every year we lavish billions of tax
dollars and other public benefits on institutions of higher learning. This guide
asks: Are we getting the most for our money?"

For more information please visit: http://www.catawba.edu.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              978 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Daily Times (PK)

                           February 3, 2010 Wednesday

Fatima Jinnah Medical College-UHS controversy: Why the change of heart, LHC CJ
asks Punjab AG

LENGTH: 450  words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, Feb. 3 -- A special division bench of the Lahore High Court (LHC),
comprising Chief Justice (CJ) Khawaja Muhammad Sharif and Justice Ijazul Ahsan,
on Tuesday directed the acting Punjab advocate general to produce the minutes of
the meeting, which had decided to affiliate Fatima Jinnah Medical College (FJMC)
with the University of Health Sciences (UHS).

The bench also sought the minutes of an earlier meeting in which the FJMC was
exempted from affiliation with the UHS.

The bench observed that the court wanted to know the reasons behind the
government's decision to allow the affiliation of a historic medical college
with a newly-established university and why this idea was earlier dropped.

The bench also allowed an application from the FJMC's students to become party
in the proceedings and adjourned the hearing until March 1.

The Punjab University's (PU) counsel, Shahzad Shaukat, informed the court on
Tuesday that PU stood at 767 and the UHS at 5,939 in the ranking list of the
world universities.

He said the PU was on the second number in the national ranking list while the
UHS had not been granted any ranking so far.

The counsel said this ranking list was prepared in the light of criteria set by
the Higher Education Commission (HEC) on the basis of research based studies,
strength of students, qualification of faculty members and finances.

On court's query, Shaukat said the ranking of the local institutions played a
vital role in the admission of Pakistani students to foreign institutions. The
UHS counsel said there was no harm in this affiliation as at least 28,500
students of affiliated medical colleges were enrolled with the university. He
said the UHS was established with a vision of standardised and specialised
education in medical field.

He said almost all the major medical colleges of the country, including Allama
Iqbal Medical College and Quaid-e-Azam Medical College in Bahawalpur, had
already been affiliated with the UHS.

Applause: The counsel could not give any satisfactory answer to a court's query
whether the UHS was created merely on the then government's wish or it
accumulated some expertise in the field of medical before coming into being.

The bench remarked, "If there is no difference then why do you want to affiliate
FJMC to a low ranking university."

This remark made FJMC students - present in the courtroom - very happy and they
began applauding. The CJ, however, directed them to maintain the decorum of the
court. He remarked, "This is a court of law, not a political procession."
Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Times. For more
information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              979 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 6, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

On Campus;
Student Group Attacks U.S. News College Guide

BYLINE: By JESSE MCKINLEY

SECTION: Section B;  Page 21;  Column 1;  National Desk;  Education Page

LENGTH: 393 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


The U.S. News & World Report college guide, in which editors rank hundreds of
institutions by value and academic standing, is under attack from a group of
students who say the magazine's methods are decidedly unacademic.

The Forget U.S. News Coalition, a national group of students from about 40
colleges and universities, says the rankings present a false air of scientific
certainty. The rankings, started in 1987, contain hard statistics like
student/faculty ratio as well as more subjective elements like academic
reputation.

"It is incredibly pretentious to say you can develop a formula to say what a
great school is," said Nick Thompson, a Stanford senior and the leader of the
coalition, which developed through the Internet. "It's like ranking religions by
their salvations versus eternal damnations."

The coalition is lobbying student governments to condemn the rankings, following
protests by irritated academic leaders, like Stanford's president, Gerhard
Casper. In September, he called on the magazine to abandon its "specious
formulas."

"I am extremely skeptical that the quality of a university -- any more than the
quality of a magazine -- can be measured statistically," Mr. Casper wrote in a
letter to the magazine's editor, James Fallows.

While Stanford dropped from No. 4 to No. 6 among national universities, the drop
"definitely didn't cost me any sleep," Mr. Casper said. "But people will ask for
reaction. Alumni read these things."

The coalition wants the magazine to list colleges alphabetically rather than
from best to worst, as it does for the top 50 national universities and top 25
liberal arts colleges.

So far, student governments at Stanford, three other national universities --
Rice (No. 16), Michigan (No. 24) and University of Pittsburgh (not in top 50) --
and one liberal arts college, Albion (not in top 25), have passed resolutions
condemning the rankings.

Mel Elfin, the guide's executive editor and developer of the ranking system,
said criticism was nothing new.

"It's moved from a period of open hostility to grudging dislike," Mr. Elfin
said. Nonetheless, he said the guide's popularity proves its usefulness to
parents facing the steep costs of a college education. "We feel the consumer --
the student and his parents -- should have as much information as possible."
JESSE MCKINLEY

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company

                              980 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              April 3, 2017 Monday

World Universities' Ranking UniRank: UNEC - first

BYLINE: Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 398 words


April 03--This year UNEC has achieved another success in the ranking of the
world universities after it was listed as the 4th best economy-oriented
university of the region of developing European and Central Asian university by
the prestigious QS Ranking of the world universities in 2016.

However, UNEC is the most popular university of the country on the Internet
according to the latest results of universities' web popularity ranking uniRank
for 2017.

UniRank, published twice a year-in January and July since 2005, is a higher
education directory and a search engine containing analysis on the higher
education institutions' web popularity accredited over the world. Ranking covers
12,358 universities and colleges of the world.

The objective of the uniRank is to reflect the popularity of the world
universities' webpages. It provides the opportunity to obtain information about
how the university or college is popular for the international students and
academic staff in the country.

In addition, a series of information is reflected in the ranking about UNEC.
This include the information about the history of UNEC, student and teacher
capacity, education provided by, library, sport services, exchange opportunities
and the percentage of admission and so on.

Ranking is made on the algorithm based on 5 independent web measurements
obtained from 4 web sources. Moz Domain Authority, Alexa Global Rank, SimilarWeb
Global Rank, Majestic Referring Domain, Majestic Trust Flow are taken as the
components of uniRank and in general measures the number of the visits of the
site, significance of the site, width of its views, the number of references and
"unique" visits from the personal computers or mobile applications. SimilarWeb
Global Rank is included here since 2017 and it covers the number of "unique".

Note that, UNEC became 3318th among 12,358 universities and colleges. The
Massachusetts Institute of Technology is on the top of the list.

Detailed information on the ranking can be acquired from the link:
www.4icu.org/reviews/180.htm

UNEC is the brand of Azerbaijan State University of Economics. The brand of UNEC
has been registered and patented by the State Committee on Standardization,
Metrology and Patent on January 21 2016.

___ (c)2017 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170403-1AZ-World-Universities-Ranking-UniRank-UNEC-first-0403-20170403

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                        Copyright 2017 Trend News Agency

                              981 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            March 28, 2015 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SOME COLLEGE RANKINGS GIVE ONLY PART OF PICTURE

BYLINE: Eleanor Chute, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 708 words


It's a safe assumption that many students go to college to improve their
employment prospects.

But it's a less safe assumption that college rankings seeking to rate which
school is set to improve the students' earning capacity the most will be
accurate measures of a college's full impact.

Among the many rankings of colleges, at least two rely on employment data of
graduates: LinkedIn, a professional social media website, ranks universities
based on career outcomes in 10 fields; PayScale, which focuses on compensation,
ranks colleges overall rather than by a particular field of study.

Edwin Koc, director of research, public policy and legal affairs for the
National Association of Colleges and Employers, whose members provide data on
entry-level pay of college graduates by what they studied, said comparing
colleges based on employment outcomes "would be against our philosophy."

Mr. Koc said: "Outcomes are very individual specific. They don't really capture
what the college brings to the individual, not completely. They could very much
be an example of what individuals are actually at the college and the kind of
backgrounds and life choices and qualities those individuals have rather than
any aspect of the college's performance."

Carnegie Mellon University graduates in some fields fare the best of any local
schools in both the LinkedIn and PayScale rankings.

LinkedIn ranks no more than the top 25 of the nation's more than 2,800 four-year
colleges and universities.

The LinkedIn ratings are aimed at figuring out which schools give students the
best chance of getting a desirable job after graduation. A desirable job is
defined as one at a "desirable company for the relevant profession." A desirable
company is one that can retain and attract employees.

LinkedIn reviewed employment patterns of more than 300 million LinkedIn members
worldwide. Its analysis includes only graduates who earned degrees within the
past eight years.

In the 10 fields, CMU placed in half: designers, No. 1; software developers at
startups, No. 3; software developers, No. 4; sales professionals, No. 10; and
marketers, No. 25.

PayScale ranks more than 1,200 colleges and universities. These rankings look at
"return on investment" based on information from employees who completed
PayScale's employee survey. The return is based on the difference between the
20-year median pay for a graduate with a bachelor's degree and the 24-year
median pay for a high school graduate minus the total four-year college cost.

In the PayScale report, CMU is the top-ranked local school, coming in at 25th
place with a return on investment of $688,500. The top amount was $985,300 at
Harvey Mudd College in Claremont, Calif.

Some of the other rankings in the PayScale report include Penn State University,
in-state, main, No. 215; University of Pittsburgh, in-state, main, No. 310;
Duquesne University, No. 502; and Robert Morris University, No. 508.

At CMU, Kevin Monahan, associate dean of student affairs for career and
professional development, said it's "great" to see entities like LinkedIn show
that "top employers really value the type of students that come out of Carnegie
Mellon."

He said LinkedIn has a CMU alumni group, with about 27,000 members. He said most
CMU students register with LinkedIn by graduation, and some network with alumni,
both to find jobs and to learn about the culture at companies that have made
offers.

Barmak Nassirian, director of federal relations and policy analysis for the
American Association of State Colleges and Universities, said the rankings do
not give a full picture nor are they the same throughout an institution.

"It is really critical to understand that outcomes vary as much within each
institution as they do among institutions," he said.

Survey data from the National Association of Colleges and Employers show that
employers expect graduates with bachelor's degrees in the Class of 2015 to have
average starting pay ranging from $45,042 for humanities to $62,998 for
engineering. The average for petroleum engineering is even higher: $80,600.

Despite the difficulties of making such calculations, Mr. Nassirian said the
issue of looking at outcomes of educational experience is an "area of enormous
interest in policy research."

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.

                              982 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   New Orleans CityBusiness (New Orleans, LA)

                                October 12, 2009

Tulane University among top 10 'best neighbor' colleges

BYLINE: CityBusiness Staff Report

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 409  words


A new ranking of universities and colleges places Tulane among the top schools
in the country when it comes to having a positive impact on the community.

The Saviors of Our Cities rankings cover schools that are engaged in
long-standing efforts with community leaders to rehabilitate the cities around
them. They recognize schools that influence community revitalization and
cultural renewal, and encourage economic expansion, urban development and
community service.

Tulane was No. 8. on the list of 25 schools recognized, and another 100 were
included in the survey.

The man who conducted the survey, Westfield (Mass.) State College President Evan
Dobelle, announced the rankings today at the 15th annual conference of the
Coalition of Urban and Metropolitan Universities in Philadelphia.

"Colleges and universities, as well as the towns and cities in which they are
located, are now under severe economic pressures. The positive financial impact
of higher education on local communities is well-documented," Dobelle said.
"Increasingly, more sophisticated partnerships are emerging that are addressing
complex issues such as homelessness and health care and are serving as catalysts
for community change. Colleges and universities are doing more and more to
support their local communities, and it is a win-win situation for both. "

The University of Pennsylvania and the University of Southern California tied
for first in Dobelle's rankings. Dayton and Pittsburgh tied for third, Creighton
No. 6 and Western Case Reserve ranked just ahead of Tulane. Portland State and
Drexel rounded out the top 10.

Dobelle published his first Saviors of Our Cities survey in 2006 when he was
president of the New England Board of Higher Education, one of the four
federally authorized regional consortiums of colleges in America. His survey and
rankings are an outcome of more than 20 years of professional experience and
ongoing research.

The rankings criteria included the length of involvement with the community,
real dollars invested, presence felt through payroll, research and purchasing
power and faculty and student involvement in community service.

"It's regrettable that with almost a trillion dollars in bailout or stimulus
money that more of these funds are not being invested in projects sponsored by
campus-based civic engagement initiatives," Dobelle said. "Projects don't come
much more turn-key than those in the higher education-community alliance sphere.
"

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved

                              983 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                             March 4, 2008 Tuesday
                                  Mich Edition

Mendoza gets high marks

BYLINE: YaVONDA SMALLS, Tribune Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. C8

LENGTH: 523 words


SOUTH BEND - The Mendoza College of Business at the University of Notre Dame has
been ranked among the top undergraduate business programs, according to
BusinessWeek magazine.

The college was rated No. 3 in the magazine's third annual ranking of
undergraduate business programs. The article is available in the magazine's
March 10 edition, which was on newsstands Monday.

"Obviously, the rankings make us a visible commodity in the market," said Sam
Gaglio, assistant dean in the Mendoza College of Business. "They have their
value, and obviously we want the students who are here at this time to feel like
they're getting a quality product."

Notre Dame jumped four spots from its No. 7 slot in 2007.

"We thought we should have been higher last year," Gaglio said, noting that the
college had ranked No. 3 a year prior. "We kind of expected to be in this arena
- in the top five."

This year, the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School and the University of
Virginia's McIntire School of Commerce retained the top two spots.

In the article that accompanied the survey, BusinessWeek indicated improvements
in the academic quality of Notre Dame's program and attributed the rise in
rankings mainly to students' success in the job market, Mendoza said in a
release.

Median annual starting salaries rose to $53,500, a nearly 10 percent increase
from the year before, the college said. Mendoza also was rated No. 2 in the
student survey ranking.

Students said Notre Dame's "die-hard alums and an emphasis on ethics separated
Mendoza from the pack," the college noted.

Before this rating tool came on the scene, there really wasn't a focus on
undergraduate business program rankings, Gaglio said, noting that it's hard to
determine exactly why.

For its recent ranking, BusinessWeek used nine sources of data including surveys
of some 80,000 business majors and more than 600 corporate recruiters, median
starting salaries for graduates, the number of graduates admitted to top MBA
programs and an academic quality gauge, Mendoza said.

This gauge incorporated the average SAT scores for business majors,
faculty-student ratios, average class size, the percentage of students with
internships and the number of hours students spend on class work each week, the
college said.

The Mendoza College of Business currently enrolls 1,626 undergraduate students
in four departments: accountancy, finance, management and marketing. After
finishing the university's First Year of Studies program, Notre Dame business
majors enter the Mendoza College in their sophomore year.

Mendoza also offers graduate degree programs, including a master of business
administration, executive master of business administration, master of science
in accountancy and master of nonprofit administration.

As good news remains on the horizon for undergraduate business education, Gaglio
said Mendoza will continue to embark on many new initiatives and projects as it
stays abreast of what's going on in the business world.

"You can't sit still in this business," he said. "You have to be continuing to
improve."

Staff writer YaVonda Smalls: yavsmalls@sbtinfo.com (574) 235-6248

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 South Bend Tribune Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              984 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             October 7, 2016 Friday

Aquinas Named A Top Midwest College

LENGTH: 157  words

DATELINE: New York



 Santa Paula: Thomas Aquinas College has issued the following news release:



   Aquinas College has been ranked as a top college in the Midwest by U.S. News
& World Report.





 Aquinas College continues to be recognized as a top ranked "Best Values"
college, according to 2017 rankings released by U.S. News and World Report.  The
College is ranked 3rd on the prestigious "Best Values" list of Regional
Universities (Midwest).



 The calculation used takes into account a school's academic quality, based on
its U.S. News Best Colleges ranking, and the 2015-16 net cost of attendance for
a student who received the average level of need-based financial aid. Rankings
of the colleges are published each fall and provide an opportunity to judge the
relative quality of institutions based on widely accepted indicators of
excellence.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              985 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 4, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY ESPN Top 25 coaches' poll;
College women's basketball

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 914 words


Poll taken before Tuesday's games

1. Tennessee (13-0)

Points: 772 (29 first-place votes). Previous ranking: 1. Upcoming games: Tonight
at South Carolina, Saturday vs. No.7 Connecticut (CBS, 2p.m. ET). Last week:
Beat then-No.21 Temple 75-50, beat then-No.11 Notre Dame 62-51, beat Old
Dominion 83-67.

2. Duke (12-0)

Points: 744 (2). Previous ranking: 2. Upcoming games: Thursday vs. Florida
State, Sunday at No.6 Maryland. Last week: Beat St.John's 105-57, beat San Diego
119-52, beat Wake Forest 100-54.

3. LSU (11-0)

Points: 716. Previous ranking: 3. Upcoming games: Tonight at Auburn, Saturday
vs. No.15 Minnesota (CBS, noon). Last week: Beat then-No.12 Michigan State
72-52, beat South Florida 87-44, beat North Carolina A&T 99-35.

4. Baylor (10-0)

Points: 672. Previous ranking: 4. Upcoming games: Tonight at Missouri, Saturday
vs. No.24 Texas (FSN, 4). Last week: Beat Sam Houston State 82-42.

5. North Carolina (13-0)

Points: 654. Previous ranking: 5. Upcoming games: Friday vs. Clemson, Monday at
Miami (Fla.). Last week: Beat Old Dominion 88-80 OT, beat College of Charleston
101-48.

6. Maryland (13-1)

Points: 600. Previous ranking: 6. Upcoming games: Thursday at No.21 Boston
College, Sunday vs. No.2 Duke. Last week: Beat Central Connecticut State 94-57,
beat Furman 92-58, beat Manhattan 82-49.

7. Connecticut (11-1)

Points: 578. Previous ranking: 8. Upcoming games: Tonight vs. Georgetown,
Saturday at No.1 Tennessee (CBS, 2). Last week: Beat Albany 78-44, beat Army
85-46.

8. Rutgers (10-1)

Points: 548. Previous ranking: 9. Tuesday's result: Beat Cincinnati 64-51.
Upcoming game: Saturday at No.13 Michigan State (CBS, noon). Last week: Beat
then-No. 23 Texas 63-49.

9. Arizona State (12-1)

Points: 515. Previous ranking: 10. Upcoming games: Friday at Southern
California, Sunday at UCLA. Last week: Beat Washington 64-51, beat Washington
State 72-47.

10. Ohio State (9-2)

Points: 499. Previous ranking: 7. Upcoming games: Thursday at Northwestern,
Monday vs. No.16 Oklahoma (ESPN2, 7). Last week: Beat Penn State 74-53, lost to
then-No.17 Purdue 61-59.

11. DePaul (14-1)

Points: 428. Previous ranking: 13. Tuesday's result: Beat Pittsburgh 81-75.
Upcoming game: Saturday at Marquette. Last week: Beat Missouri State 84-74.

12. Notre Dame (9-2)

Points: 415. Previous ranking: 11. Upcoming games: Tonight at St.John's,
Saturday vs. Seton Hall, Jan.10 vs. Marquette. Last week: Beat Valparaiso 58-50,
lost to No.1 Tennessee 62-51.

13. Michigan State (10-3)

Points: 406. Previous ranking: 12. Upcoming games: Thursday vs. Penn State,
Saturday vs. No.8 Rutgers (CBS, noon), Monday at Iowa. Last week: Lost to No.3
LSU 72-52, beat Central Michigan 75-50, beat Michigan 77-44.

14. Purdue (10-2)

Points: 377. Previous ranking: 17. Upcoming games: Thursday at Indiana, Sunday
at Michigan. Last week: Beat Wisconsin 77-57, beat then-No.7 Ohio State 61-59.

15. Minnesota (8-2)

Points: 340. Previous ranking: 15. Upcoming games: Thursday vs. Wisconsin,
Saturday at No.3 LSU (CBS, noon), Monday at Indiana. Last week: Beat
Northwestern 69-54.

16. (tie) Oklahoma (10-3)

Points: 241. Previous ranking: 20. Upcoming games: Tonight at Iowa State,
Saturday vs. Colorado, Monday at No.10 Ohio State (ESPN2, 7). Last week: Beat
then-No.16 New Mexico 83-70.

16. (tie) Stanford (8-4)

Points: 241. Previous ranking: 14. Upcoming games: Thursday at Oregon State,
Saturday at Oregon. Last week: Lost to then-No.24 Boston College 77-69, beat
Southern California 77-56, beat UCLA 91-68.

18. Georgia (9-3)

Points: 234. Previous ranking: 18. Upcoming game: Thursday at Mississippi. Last
week: Beat Memphis 97-44, beat Tennessee-Martin 81-47.

19. Vanderbilt (11-3)

Points: 216. Previous ranking: 19. Tuesday's result: Beat Western Kentucky
72-57. Upcoming game: Sunday at Arkansas. Last week: Beat William & Mary 92-66.

20. New Mexico (10-3)

Points: 208. Previous ranking: 16. Upcoming games: Thursday vs. No.22 Utah
(CSTV, 9), Saturday at Colorado State. Last week: Lost to then-No.20 Oklahoma
83-70, beat New Mexico State 55-42.

21. Boston College (12-2)

Points: 176. Previous ranking: 24. Upcoming games: Thursday vs. No.6 Maryland,
Sunday at Virginia Tech. Last week: Beat then-No.14 Stanford 77-69, beat Colgate
73-54.

22. Utah (9-2)

Points: 143. Previous ranking: 22. Upcoming games: Thursday at No.20 New Mexico
(CSTV, 9), Saturday vs. Brigham Young (CSTV, 4). Last week: Beat Southern Utah
79-47.

23. Temple (8-3)

Points: 128. Previous ranking: 21. Upcoming games: Friday vs. Charlotte, Sunday
at LaSalle. Last week: Lost to No.1 Tennessee 75-50.

24. Texas (6-5)

Points: 57. Previous ranking: 23. Tuesday's result: Lost to Kansas 70-61.
Upcoming game: Saturday at No.4 Baylor (FSN, 4). Last week: Lost to then-No.9
Rutgers 63-49.

25. Florida (12-1)

Points: 35. Previous ranking: not ranked. Upcoming games: Thursday vs. Alabama,
Sunday at No.18 Georgia. Last week: Beat Rhode Island 76-62, beat Liberty 73-50,
beat Florida State 72-62.

Dropped out: No.25 Mississippi.

Others receiving votes (records through Monday): Washington (10-3) 27, Virginia
Tech (13-1) 24, Brigham Young (9-1) 13, Mississippi (10-3) 12, George Washington
(6-4) 10, Louisville (9-2) 7, South Florida (11-3) 7, Miami (Fla.) (10-2) 6,
North Carolina State (10-3) 6, Delaware (9-1) 4, Louisiana Tech (8-3) 4, Western
Kentucky (10-2) 4, Xavier (9-2) 4, Virginia (10-1) 2, California (11-3) 1, South
Carolina (9-3) 1.

The USA TODAY/ESPN board of coaches is made up of 31 head coaches at Division I
institutions. All are members of the Women's Basketball Coaches Association.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              986 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            August 25, 2009 Tuesday

Area colleges ranked

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 97 words


The annual U.S. News and World Report's rankings of " America's Best Colleges"
was recently released. Loras College was named a "top tier" school, and was in a
three-way tie for 11th place in the "Baccalaureate Colleges (Midwest)" category.
Clarke College and University of Dubuque did not receive a "top tier" ranking in
any of the main categories. Clarke was named a "tier three" Liberal Arts
College, while UD was named a "tier three" Baccalaureate College in the Midwest.
University of Wisconsin-Platteville also received a "tier three" ranking for
"Universities (Midwest)" category.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              987 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 29, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

UF CLIMBS TO TOP IN PARTY POLL

BYLINE: By KIMBERLY MILLER Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 568 words


Two of Florida's public universities took No. 1 spots on the coveted Princeton
Review list of the 386 top colleges in the nation, toiling for the past year to
earn the titles of best "Party School" and most likely to be a "Dodgeball
Target."

School officials aren't sure which reputation they'd rather carry - keg-stand
king or nerd.

"We take with an appropriate grain of salt some of the more whimsical rankings,
including our number one ranking of dodgeball targets," said Jake Hartvigsen,
spokesperson for New College of Florida in Sarasota. "We think this is
recognition of the more brainy nature of our students."

The Gators of Gainesville moved up from a No. 4 ranking as best party school in
the nation last year to take the premier position for the first time in the
Princeton Review's party rankings, released Monday.

The University of Florida also earned high rankings for "Students Who Study the
Least," and pack the stadium the most.

UF spokesman Steve Orlando said he fielded calls all day Monday from media
interested in the school's win.

"For a lot of people, this isn't exactly good news," Orlando said. "But we just
take it in stride. Our own surveys show our students don't overindulge."

And as amusing as it is to say you attend the top-rated party school in the
country, UF doesn't condone excessive partying, even requiring freshmen to take
an alcohol awareness class. President Bernie Machen made alcohol education a
priority after five alcohol-related student deaths occurred during his first 18
months at the school. Machen was hired in 2003.

Still, the rankings inspire competition within Florida's universities.

Florida State University - not letting UF hog all the limelight - was ranked the
No. 10 party school.

Princeton Review's rankings are based on 120,000 student surveys that target
specific areas such as alcohol and drug use, hours of study each day,
participation in sports and the popularity of fraternities and sororities.

Florida Atlantic University in Boca Raton was not listed in the 62 rankings,
which included other categories such as "Reefer Madness," and "Stone Cold Sober
Schools." Utah's Brigham Young University took the most sober school award home
for the 11th consecutive year.

On the opposite end of the spectrum, University of Florida Student Body
President Kevin Reilly said his constituents aren't all drunkards, they just
"work hard and play hard."

"It overshadows our academic prowess," Reilly said about UF's new No. 1 party
ranking. "It's definitely not something I'll put on my résumé."

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

- kimberly_miller@pbpost.com

Some Florida school rankings

UF, No. 1, Party Schools

New College, No. 1, Dodgeball Targets

FSU, No. 10, Party Schools

UCF, No. 14, Students Who Study the Least

Source: princetonreview.com

Top party schoolsby 'Princeton Review'

1. University of Florida

2. University of Mississippi

3. Penn State University

4. West Virginia University

5. Ohio University

6. Randolph-Macon College (Ashland, Va.)

7. University of Georgia

8. University of Texas-Austin

9. University of California-Santa Barbara

10. Florida State University

11. University of New Hampshire

12. University of Iowa

13. University of Colorado

14. Indiana University

15. Tulane University (New Orleans)

16. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

17. Arizona State University

18. University of Tennessee

19. University of Alabama

20. Loyola University-New Orleans

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 2007 file photo A UF student enhances the school's party reputation as he tries
to ascenda greased pole.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

This document could not be formatted for delivery. If your delivery request
included other documents, they completed successfully.

                              989 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 22, 2016 Thursday

George Fox University again receives first-tier listing in 2017 \x91U.S. News &
World Report' rankings

LENGTH: 415  words

DATELINE: New York



 Salem: George Fox University has issued the following news release:
 George Fox University again earned a first-tier ranking from U.S. News & World
Report magazine in its 2017 "America's Best Colleges" issue, released Sept. 13.





 The Newberg, Ore.-based university ranks 23rd out of 124 in the "Best Regional
Universities" West category. Colleges in the category provide a full range of
undergraduate and master's-level programs, but few doctoral programs.
Nationally, the category includes 653 universities and colleges, with 124 ranked
in the 15-state western region.



 The rankings - including the component information on each college's score -
are available online at usnews.com . This is the 28th year George Fox has been
ranked as one of "America's Best Colleges" by U.S. News & World Report. The
university made the magazine's first ranking in 1988.



 The No. 23 rank marks a jump from last year's rankings, when George Fox was No.
28 in the "Best Regional Universities" category. The improvement comes in a year
when the institution is expected to exceed 4,000 total students for the first
time in its 125-year history.



 George Fox also is listed as one of the magazine's "Best Colleges for
Veterans," comprised of colleges and universities that are in the top half of
their U.S. News ranking category and had 20 or more students who used GI Bill
benefits to partially or fully finance their tuition and fees during the 2015-16
school year.



 "Best Colleges for Veterans" schools also met both of the following criteria:
the institution is certified for the GI Bill, and the institution participates
in the Yellow Ribbon Program, which allows institutions of higher learning to
voluntarily enter into an agreement with the Veterans Administration to fund
tuition and fee expenses that exceed the tuition and fee amounts payable under
the Post-9/11 GI Bill.



 George Fox University is ranked by Forbes among the top Christian universities
in the country and is a Christian college classified by U.S. News & World Report
as a first-tier regional university. More than 4,000 students attend classes on
the university's campus in Newberg, Ore., and at teaching centers in Portland,
Salem and Redmond, Ore. George Fox offers bachelor's degrees in more than 40
majors, degree-completion programs for working adults, six seminary degrees, and
13 master's and doctoral degrees.
 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

This document could not be formatted for delivery. If your delivery request
included other documents, they completed successfully.

                              991 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           September 16, 2014 Tuesday

London becomes world's top city for higher education

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 382 words


LONDON - London is the only city with the highest number of top-rated
universities across the world, according to the QS World University Rankings
released Tuesday.

According to the new rankings, Britain has four of the world's top six
universities, while the capital of Britain also has five of the world's top 100
universities.

The five universities in London include Imperial College London,

University College London (UCL), King's College London, London School of
Economics and Queen Mary University of London. Their rankings are second, fifth,
16th, 71st and 98th respectively.

It said London is the only city in the world with so many universities in the
top 100 world's universities, following by Boston and Hong Kong with three
universities in top 100.

New rankings showed Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)

is in first place, while the University of Cambridge shares second place with
Imperial College London.

Harvard University stands at fourth place, while University of Oxford ties with
UCL for joint fifth.

"These rankings consolidate London's position as the education capital of the
world," Mayor of London Boris Johnson said Tuesday.

"Nowhere else will you find such a critical mass of top universities within just
a few miles of each other, all providing an excellent education and producing
graduates who go on to be leaders in their fields. From accountants to
zoologists, I'm proud to say that London universities are at the forefront of
teaching and research," he added.

The Chinese mainland has three universities ranked in the top 100, with Tsinghua
University at 47th, Peking University at 57th and Fudan University at 71st.

The University of Hong Kong, the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology
and the Chinese University of Hong Kong are ranked 28th, 40th and 46th.

The annual university rankings are published by British Quacquarelli Symonds
(QS), which is one of the three most influential and widely observed
international university rankings,

alongside the Times Higher Education World University Rankings and the Academic
Ranking of World Universities.

QS World University Rankings are based on academic reputation, employer
reputation, student-faculty ratio, citation per faculty and international
faculty ratio and international student ratio.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              992 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                              July 23, 2007 Monday
                                 CITY-D Edition

College ranking dropouts;
Some private schools in Pa. are rebelling against U.S. News & World Report's
annual education survey.

BYLINE: By Kathy Boccella; Inquirer Staff Writer

SECTION: PHILADELPHIA; Inq Philadelphia; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 928 words



Gettysburg College, within firing distance of the famed battlefield, has a
strong commitment to public service with many students joining the Peace Corps
and the former heads of UNICEF and Lutheran World Relief among its graduates.

But nowhere is that mentioned in U.S. News & World Report's annual ranking of
colleges that puts the 2,600-student school at a respectable 45 among 215
liberal arts institutions.

"What people need is information about schools," said Gettysburg president
Katherine Haley Will. "The No. 1, though a great school, is not good for
everybody."

As head of the Annapolis Group, a clutch of 125 liberal arts colleges, Will is
leading the charge against the magazines's widely-read annual survey, which they
say is misleading and not a true measure of a school's unique strengths.

So far, 46 schools have signed a letter agreeing to boycott next year's peer
survey and to not use their college's rank in promotiontal materials.

The schools will still show up in the survey but they hope the letter will
eventually force U.S. News to make changes.

What really has the colleges agitated is the part of the survey that asks
administrators to rate other institutions on a scale of one to five. The results
account for 25 percent of the overall ranking, with quantitative data about
selectivity, enrollment and graduation rates, among other things, making up the
rest.

Will and others say they might know five to 10 schools well enough to rank them.
"Otherwise you're just going on hearsay," she said.

Not doing well in this category hurts their ranking, they say. The group plans
to come up with its own comparative chart next year and publish it on the
Internet.

Not surprisingly, colleges that don't make the list's elite top-20 cut seem more
dismayed by the issue than others.

In today's supercompetitive college market, a lot is at stake for small,
liberal-arts schools, which charge as much as $45,000 a year: U.S. News has an
audience of 11 million, and its college issue is a must-read for prospective
students and parents.

Prestigious schools such as Swarthmore, Haverford, and Bryn Mawr Colleges, 3, 9
and 20 respectively in the 2007 standings, say they'll continue to fill out the
survey.

"I didn't think colleges should be immune from press coverage. The public has a
right to know," said Greg Kannerstein, dean of Haverford, who will examine the
college's future participation in the magazine survey this fall.

Layafette, Dickinson and Ursinus Colleges, No. 30, No. 41 and No. 69, however,
have joined the revolt. But the boycott will only be effective if the top-ranked
institutions come on board, and they probably never will, Ursinus president John
Strassberger said.

"None of the top 10 colleges are here," he said. "If I was [President] Al Bloom
at Swarthmore, I think I would have other things to worry about."

Rankings hurt colleges like Ursinus by implying there are vast differences among
schools, he said, but "most students wouldn't know if they are at an institution
that is 35, 55, or 135."

Critics also say rankings encourage schools to offer more merit scholarships to
attract high achieving students - and up their academic standings - rather than
needs-based grants, for candidates who may have lower SAT scores.

U.S. News has published the annual report since the 1980s. The survey breaks out
1,357 schools into 10 divisions. The 2008 college issue will be on the Internet
Aug. 17 and on newsstands on Aug. 20.

Editor Brian Kelly defended the peer survey, saying it was a fairly standard
technique and measured a school's intangible qualities.

"It doesn't make sense to me. I'm not saying you should know 200 schools but you
ought to know 30," Kelly said. "It's part of their job. It's almost like they
have their head in the sand."

If respondents don't know a school, they can indicate that on the survey.

He said the rankings were important to families paying $40,000 a year for a
private college education. However if enough colleges join the boycott, the
magazine may eventually change the weight given the peer data and include other
information.

"We would love more success-outcome data," Kelly said.

Jenny Richard, dean of admissions at Bryn Mawr, said she generally rates 30 to
40 schools, although she agrees with the Annapolis Group's complaints.

"We'd love to have an alternative system that factors in information that we
feel is more relevant" such as how well students do after they graduate, she
said.

Despite the fuss, Glenside higher education consultant Jim Paskill said the
survey isn't that influential since nearly every school can brag about some type
of award. Students, he said, are more concerned about programs and location.

But supporters of the boycott argue that rankings contribute to the
commercialization of college admissions.

"Ranksters have created a crisis by undermining educational values and have
distorted the way education is perceived and pursued among students, families
and even among colleges," said Lloyd Thacker of the Education Conservancy, a
college-admission reform group that shares the Annapolis Groups' concerns and
sent out the protest letter to hundreds of schools.

Still, many schools that are philosophically opposed do not want to risk a
seditious attitude.

"We're perfectly aware that the American public wants to have some objective
measure of quality," said Brian Mitchell, president of Bucknell University, No.
29, which will continue to participate.


For U.S. News' 2007 rankings, go to www.usnews.com/college

Contact staff writer Kathy Boccella at kboccella@phillynews.com or 610-313-8123.


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              993 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 27, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Reality Check for College Rankings

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 448 words


Does anyone really choose a college just by looking at U.S. News & World
Report's annual rankings? Probably not, but universities still take them very
much to heart. And Americans do love lists. Now, with this year's rankings only
weeks away, the magazine has come under fire from a woman who once supervised
them. Her criticisms may not make a dent in the list's popularity. But they
should give some pause to the institutions that have been taking their cues from
these rankings for over a decade.

In an article in The Washington Monthly, Amy Graham takes her former employer to
task for rating schools in ways that could mislead prospective students. It is
not news that the U.S. News rankings provide a convenient but imprecise survey
of the quality of higher education. But how imprecise? Well, the University of
Hawaii jumped more than 50 places during the mid-1990's, in large part by
answering U.S. News's survey in more detail.

The rankings make up in visibility what they lack in precision. Not always
happily, college administrators admit that the rankings influence their
application flow, alumni giving and faculty recruiting. At least two schools --
the University of North Carolina and Ohio State -- designed institutionwide
strategies just to boost their ratings. Such efforts will not always be in
students' best interests. The easiest way to move up the tables may be to
increase alumni donations, one of the rankings' seven main ingredients. But it
is far from clear how much that helps current undergraduates.

When measurements are this rough, small variations in the rankings are totally
meaningless, even though they may loom very large indeed for the institutions
involved. Take the case of the California Institute of Technology, which was
ranked ninth in the country in 1998, first in 1999 (on Ms. Graham's watch) and
fourth in 2000. Did the quality of Cal Tech's education really yo-yo year by
year? No -- the magazine simply modified the statistical methods underlying the
rankings.

The fundamental problem with the rankings is that they substitute a slew of
proxies for what really matters -- students' own reflections on their
experiences and their prospects for a rewarding life after graduation. Of
course, it would take much more time and money to conduct tens of thousands of
interviews and follow-ups than it does to send out a bunch of questionnaires
that are far from complete. Students and faculties should take U.S. News's
ordering for what it is -- a popular diversion that helps high schoolers
separate the top tier of schools from the bottom, but offers only the most
arbitrary judgment on whether college No. 19 has any advantage over No. 26.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company

                              994 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                     April 11, 1996, Thursday, ALL EDITIONS

SPORTS;
COLLEGE NOTEBOOK;
DeKalb's Patriots on the way to national ranking

BYLINE: Derrick Mahone; STAFF WRITER

SECTION: EXTRA; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 303 words


The DeKalb College baseball team is looking for some respect . . . and a
national ranking.

The Patriots are 21-4 overall and have beaten some nationally ranked teams.
DeKalb had a doubleheader sweep of defending national champion and No. 9 Middle
Georgia College. The Patriots have also beaten national powerhouses Southern
Union, Gadsden and Meridian.

DeKalb, which is 3-2 in the Georgia Junior College Athletic Association, is
beginning the heart of its conference schedule.

"Although we have played well, there is still a long way to go. We have our
entire conference schedule ahead of us," first-year coach Tom Cantrell said.

SIGNING: DeKalb College sophomore Keree Koeppel has accepted a soccer
scholarship to Tennessee. The striker from Scottsdale, Ariz., led the team to a
regional championship, with a team-leading 16 goals and nine assists. She is
also a member of the DeKalb softball team; she is hitting .345 with a home run
in 12 games for the Lady Patriots.

BASEBALL RANKINGS: The Emory baseball team (20-9) is ranked No. 25 in the nation
in the first American Baseball Coaches Association poll. It is the second team
in school history to be nationally ranked.

PLAYING WELL: Emory sophomore Jed Weinstein is enjoying a successful season as
the No. 1 singles tennis player. Last year he was the No. 6 player. His current
career singles record is 25-2. . . . The Emory women's tennis team is 5-0
against teams ranked in the top 20 nationally in Division III.

UAA HONORS: Emory freshmen golfer Charles Frost of Gainesville is leading the
team with a 78.4 average and has been named Athlete of the Week twice this
season by the University Athletic Association. . . . Emory sophomore Troy
Thompson has been honored seven times as the UAA Athlete of the Week for indoor
and outdoor track.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 The Atlanta Constitution

                              995 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 15, 2017 Friday

MEN'S LACROSSE RANKED THIRD IN FACE-OFF YEARBOOK PRESEASON RANKINGS

LENGTH: 227  words



New York: Le Moyne College has issued the following news release:

 Story Links
 The defending Northeast-10 Conference champion Le Moyne College men's lacrosse
team is ranked third in the Inside Lacrosse/Face-Off Yearbook Division II
preseason rankings, as announced by the magazine. The Dolphins, who won their
13th NE10 Championship last season and appeared in the NCAA Championships for
the sixth straight year and for the 15th time in the last 16 years, are one of
four Northeast-10 Conference members recognized in the rankings (Merrimack 2nd,
Adelphi 4th, Pace 8th). The Dolphins will host all three of the ranked NE10
teams this season
Limestone College, which won the NCAA Championship for the third time in four
years (2014, 2015, 2017), leads off the rankings. Merrimack College is slotted
second for the third straight year after advancing to the NCAA Championship game
for the first time last year. Adelphi University, the North Region and NE10
runner-up in 2017, is fourth, while Seton Hill University, which won the
inaugural Great Midwest Athletic Conference Championship last year, is fifth.


The Dolphins open the 2018 season on Saturday, February 17th by hosting Mercy
College, which is 13th in the rankings, at Ted Grant Field.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved